Hong Kong police are urging members of the public not to put themselves in harm's way by taking part in the so-called "human chain" rally on Friday.

That's because the organizers of the event cannot be expected to ensure that the crowd will not lose control and violate the law in the process. The organizers have claimed in an online poster they plan to form human chains along three railway lines operated by the MTR Corporation in "a show of solidarity" against the extradition bill.

Undoubtedly, this is no more than another stunt to sustain the campaign aimed at forcing the SAR government to accede to their "five demands". Like so many acts of violence in the past two months, the "human chain" rally is designed to force the government's hand. It is intended to attract international attention, or more precisely, to build up foreign pressure.

But the organizers and participants must be reminded that whatever stunts they pull are not going to work. The SAR government will never submit to political extortion, not even under foreign pressure. Indeed, no legitimate government in the world would.

The organizers of the "human chain" rally are in fact putting on a show that may very well cost its participants dearly no matter what excuse they may come up with. There is absolutely no justice or public interest to be served except that more injuries would be inflicted on Hong Kong society as a whole.

The organizers have admitted they were inspired by the Baltic Way or Baltic Chain, a 2 million-strong human chain formed exactly 30 years ago on Aug 23, 1989 as part of a political movement aimed at gaining independence for the Baltic republics of Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania from the Soviet Union. By the same token, the "human chain" rally in Hong Kong tonight is to be a tribute to the advocate for Hong Kong independence, at least for some of the organizers and participants.

Over the years, "human chain" rallies have become a signature tactic of independence movements around the world. Hong Kong people must guard against being misled into the slippery slope. Separatism has no future in Hong Kong. It would only bring disaster and self-destruction. 