A series of violent activities have plagued Hong Kong since June. The following are five things you need to know about what has happened in Hong Kong.

1. HOW DID ALL THESE START?

During their trip to Taipei in February 2018, a then 19-year-old suspect surnamed Chan from Hong Kong allegedly murdered his 20-year-old pregnant girlfriend, also a Hong Kong resident, in Taipei, fled Taiwan and returned to Hong Kong alone.

The case was complicated for authorities in Hong Kong and Taiwan to handle with the transfer of the fugitive suspect, as Hong Kong has no jurisdiction over the case with the absence of a transfer agreement between Hong Kong and Taiwan.

The Hong Kong Special Administrative Region has agreements with 20 jurisdictions on the surrender of fugitive offenders and 32 jurisdictions over mutual legal assistance in criminal matters around the world.

To fix the legal loophole, the HKSAR government tabled the Fugitive Offenders and Mutual Legal Assistance in Criminal Matters Legislation (Amendment) Bill 2019 at the Legislative Council (LegCo) for discussion on April 3.

The bill was proposed to enable Hong Kong to conduct case-based cooperation with jurisdictions that have no effective long-term arrangement with Hong Kong on juridical assistance in criminal matters.

The HKSAR government reiterated that the amendments are meant to protect the law-abiding general public in Hong Kong and business activities from the threat of crime.

The targets of case-based surrenders are fugitives who have committed grave criminal offenses based on prima facie evidence and are wanted for justice due to the offenses committed, and the HKSAR has full discretion as to whether a case-based surrender request should be acceded to, according to the HKSAR government.

The lack of knowledge of the legal system of the Chinese mainland and the fact that some people stoked fears led to growing public concern over the bill.

A mass protest against the bill broke out on June 9.

Despite the government's promise to continue addressing concerns over the bill and repeated calls for rational discussions both at the LegCo and in the community, the LegCo meeting slated on June 12 had to be delayed after protesters violently stormed and vandalized the LegCo building.

The Hong Kong High Court has extended an interim injunction that bans protesters from impeding airport operations. Friday's decision came after another protest to cripple all traffic to the Hong Kong International Airport was planned on Saturday by anti-government groups.

The injunction, valid from Aug 14 to Aug 23, enjoined protesters from assembling at one of world's busiest transport hubs. The injunction was issued amid escalating violence during protests that disrupted airport operations and led to the cancellation of nearly a thousand flights.

On Aug 13, an unauthorized sit-in protest at the airport turned violent when radicals attacked two men from the mainland, including a reporter working for the Beijing-based newspaper Global Times.

In a statement published in several local newspapers, the Airport Authority appealed to youngsters not to participate in or support acts that disrupt airport services and undermine the reputation of the airport.

Tens of thousands of workers earn their living from airport-related industries, including aviation, tourism, logistics and trade, said the authority.

In response to the call to block roads to the airport on Saturday, the city's land transportation sector, in a newspaper advertisement, urged the protesters to avoid obstructing traffic, and costing professional drivers their livelihood.

The Hong Kong police said on Thursday that the personal data of a total of 1,614 police officers and their family members were illegally disclosed online since June.

Swalikh Mohammed, Superintendent of Cyber Security and Technology Crime Bureau of the Hong Kong police, said at a press conference that the disclosed data included names, identity card numbers, birthdays, phone numbers, home addresses, and even pictures of the children of police officers, and information about their schools and classes.

Mohammed said that quite a number of the police officers and their family members were disturbed in different ways after the data disclosure, such as receiving annoying phone messages and threatening letters. Some of the police quarters were defaced and damaged by bricks.

Some people even broke into the police dormitory buildings, leaving words like "misfortunes must come to your wife and children" on the wall, he said.

Mohammed said it is worrying that some online discussions have turned into violent acts in real world. Some radical and extreme remarks on the internet incited others to commit crimes such as making bombs and using petrol bombs to damage the police stations and harm the police officers.

He emphasized that the laws of Hong Kong can be applied to internet crimes and the police will thoroughly investigate into these cases.

A total of 16 people were arrested for unlawful disclosure of information and unlawful obtain information from computers since June, according to the police.

The past two months have seen a series of clashes in Hong Kong between police and large numbers of protesters

Since June, Hong Kong's opposition and some radical forces have used the pretext of peaceful demonstration to engage in protests that have sometimes become violent.

Though the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region government has said on many occasions that it has completely halted the amendment of two ordinances concerning the transfer of fugitives, protesters continued to escalate violence and cause mayhem in the city.

Here is a timeline of the activities that challenge the rule of law, disrupt social order, and undermine national sovereignty and the "one country, two systems" principle.

Challenges

The demonstrations repeatedly became violent clashes under the instigation of individuals with ulterior motives. Some repeatedly mounted attacks on police. They surrounded Hong Kong Police Headquarters, disrupted government agencies and ransacked the Legislative Council building.

· On June 9, demonstrators started to protest against the proposed amendments. In the small hours of June 10, well-organized protesters started attacking the LegCo building, blocking roads and assaulting police officers. They clashed with police, with some attempting to rob officers of their guns. Eight policemen were injured.

· On June 12, an illegal rally started around Admiralty, and some radical members stayed around the LegCo building until midnight. Well-organized protesters assaulted officers with bricks, homemade spears and even petrol bombs, injuring 22 police officers. Though police exercised restraint, the protesters continually assaulted their lines and forced police to use appropriate force to disperse demonstrators.

· On June 21, even after the HKSAR government announced that it had halted the amendments, violence continued. Extremist protesters surrounded police headquarters and wreaked havoc, and blocked the public from using services at Revenue Tower and Immigration Tower. Then they blocked Hong Kong government offices and the High Court.

· On June 26, some people instigated demonstrators to storm police headquarters for the second time. They repeated similar savage behaviors. Opposition lawmakers were once again present to provide support. The personal details of some police officers were illegally leaked online.

· On July 1, rioters blocked roads and threw corrosive liquids at police officers. They ransacked the LegCo building and assailed police with toxic chemical powder. They extensively damaged the council chamber, defaced the HKSAR regional emblem, tore up the Basic Law, waved a colonial-era flag and even called for the establishment of a so-called interim government.

Hong Kong police are urging members of the public not to put themselves in harm's way by taking part in the so-called "human chain" rally on Friday.

That's because the organizers of the event cannot be expected to ensure that the crowd will not lose control and violate the law in the process. The organizers have claimed in an online poster they plan to form human chains along three railway lines operated by the MTR Corporation in "a show of solidarity" against the extradition bill.

Undoubtedly, this is no more than another stunt to sustain the campaign aimed at forcing the SAR government to accede to their "five demands". Like so many acts of violence in the past two months, the "human chain" rally is designed to force the government's hand. It is intended to attract international attention, or more precisely, to build up foreign pressure.

But the organizers and participants must be reminded that whatever stunts they pull are not going to work. The SAR government will never submit to political extortion, not even under foreign pressure. Indeed, no legitimate government in the world would.

The organizers of the "human chain" rally are in fact putting on a show that may very well cost its participants dearly no matter what excuse they may come up with. There is absolutely no justice or public interest to be served except that more injuries would be inflicted on Hong Kong society as a whole.

The organizers have admitted they were inspired by the Baltic Way or Baltic Chain, a 2 million-strong human chain formed exactly 30 years ago on Aug 23, 1989 as part of a political movement aimed at gaining independence for the Baltic republics of Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania from the Soviet Union. By the same token, the "human chain" rally in Hong Kong tonight is to be a tribute to the advocate for Hong Kong independence, at least for some of the organizers and participants.

Over the years, "human chain" rallies have become a signature tactic of independence movements around the world. Hong Kong people must guard against being misled into the slippery slope. Separatism has no future in Hong Kong. It would only bring disaster and self-destruction.

China-Canada relations have met serious difficulties, and the Canadian side is solely responsible for this, a Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesperson said Thursday.

Geng Shuang made the comment at a press briefing when asked about Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau's remarks that the Canadian government would not "back down" in disputes with China.

Urging the Canadian side to reflect upon its mistakes, Geng said Canada should treat China's solemn position and concerns seriously and immediately release Meng Wanzhou, the chief financial officer of Huawei.

Geng also criticized Canada's series of wrong comments on Hong Kong, saying that Hong Kong affairs are China's internal affairs and brook no interference from any country, organization or individual.

"We hope that the Canadian side could abide by the international law and the basic norms of international relations, and stop meddling in China's internal affairs," he said.

George Galloway, an outspoken former member of British Parliament, said how the Chinese central and Hong Kong governments handle the situation in the former British colony is none of the United Kingdom's business.

In an exclusive interview with China Daily, Galloway said: "Hong Kong is no more Britain's business, than is the business of Slovakia or Romania. We are just another foreign country."

He went on to say, "For (those in) the British state, they have never accepted in their heart that their empire has gone and Hong Kong is (part of) China.

"They had to make the diplomatic withdrawal that they did in 1997 because they ran out of the ransom in New Territories and they have tried ever since to keep as large a foothold on the people, society and the economy of Hong Kong as they possibly could," he added.

Galloway drew international attention for his strong rebuttal when facing a committee of senior US politicians as part of the Senate's investigation into the Iraq oil-for-food scandal in 2005.

Galloway recalled what Deng Xiaoping, the late Chinese leader, had said before Hong Kong's handover by the UK - the days when foreign countries can order China what to do are over. "They were over when Deng said so; they were over in 1997, and they are certainly over in 2019," he added.

Tom Tugendhat, chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee in the British Parliament, said Britain has a role in calming the increasingly violent clashes between protesters and police, suggesting that the UK give British nationality to Hong Kong citizens.

Galloway said, "This is like events happening in a part of our empire even though that empire has largely long gone, and certainly gone in China."

He accused Britain of double standard. "The point is it's none of our business. It's no more our business surely how Hong Kong is governed than how Saudi Arabia is governed. In the latter case, we accept that," he argued.

Last week, Liu Xiaoming, the Chinese ambassador to the UK, said in a press conference in London that no foreign country should interfere in Hong Kong affairs.

Liu also said the Western media have inescapable responsibility for the current situation in Hong Kong, as selective reporting and distortion have resulted in the prevalence of wrong information and have misled the public.

Galloway echoed Liu's view, adding: "This is part of a spectrum of attacks which are designed to slow China's advance, weaken China's internal cohesion, with a view to stopping China from becoming the most important economy and country in the world."

On Aug 12, the protesters marched into the Hong Kong International Airport and brought the premises to a standstill. The Hong Kong police's handling of the situation was widely criticized by the Western media, but Galloway argued that was not honestly dealt with by the Western press.

"What, in fact, is an example of light-handed police, is portrayed in the Western media as tyrannical, dictatorial policing. And that's simply, objectively, not true.

"If this was England, still more if it was in France, if Charles de Gaulle Airport was seized by protesters and had to be closed... they would be cleared violently within the first hours of such a protest," he added.

Martin Jacques, one of Britain's best-known Sinologists, recently expressed his views on the subject of Hong Kong, saying the period since 1997 was being criticized by the British that China was not being true to democracy. Jacques called it pure "British hypocrisy".

Jacques pointed out Britain ran Hong Kong for 155 years and there was never a semblance of democracy, as the British never introduced universal suffrage and there was not a word of mention about universal suffrage until after the handover agreement.

"With Chinese rule looming, then it became essential that Hong Kong was democratic in a Western-style fashion."

Galloway said he agreed with every word of that, adding: "It is a hypocrisy with a capital H."

"We are not called Perfidious Albion for nothing," he said. "We didn't maintain the world's biggest empire for as long as we did by being sincere and honest. We ruled all of India with 60 thousand people, by saying one thing to one group of people and different thing to another group of people. It's a master class in British hypocrisy."

“I really value this space where we can make our voices heard – it’s something we can’t do on the mainland,” he said.

“But now, things have degenerated to the stage where the righteous police have to take the blame for worsening law and order, and radical protesters can go on a rampage, vandalising public property and attacking law enforcement with some noble excuse but without punishment.”

Liang, who works in the finance industry, is one of the tens of thousands of young professional mainland Chinese known as

, who have made Hong Kong home in the past decade, attracted by the city’s job opportunities, shared culture and social tolerance. But the summer of protests have left many disillusioned, turning their relationship with the city upside down and prompting many to wonder whether they have a future in Hong Kong.

Unlike their predecessors who came to the city decades ago as refugees or entrepreneurs, gangpiao are mostly Chinese elites who came to the city through Hong Kong Immigration Department programmes targeting young professionals.

There is no official data on the number of gangpiao but according to Hong Kong census data, there were about 77,000 Chinese nationals who had lived for less than seven years in the city by mid-2016. About 80 per cent of this group were aged between 18 and 30, and more than 60 per cent held a postgraduate qualification.

After seven years, Chinese citizens – like other nationals – can apply to become permanent Hong Kong residents but the census data does not indicate how many people have chosen this option.

Before the summer protests, most gangpiao happily called Hong Kong home but the events in July and August – including the

and the siege of the central government’s liaison office three weeks later – were turning points.

Zhu Jie, a specialist in Hong Kong affairs at Wuhan University, said many gangpiao became indignant because the behaviour of some protesters crossed the line of disrespecting their country.

For many, the storming of Legco was a shocking act of violence while the attack on the liaison office was a direct assault on Beijing’s sovereignty.

“Many of the gangpiao are educated in mainland China and patriotism is a key value that they shared,” Zhu said. “This is why so many gangpiao have joined activities to support the police.”

For Alicia Liu, a senior banker at a Chinese investment bank and a long-term Hong Kong resident, the attack on the liaison office caused her to rethink her identity.

“I used to think that I was a local in Hong Kong before the recent events. But now I consider myself more a mainlander,” Liu said.

As well as targeting Legco and the liaison office, some radical protesters have aimed abuse at mainland Chinese citizens. When some Hong Kong University students

Zhang Xiang, a renowned mainland-born scientist, gangpiao saw it as “Red Guard-style” tyranny.

Comments posted online in July by a deputy principal targeting children of police officers also sent shivers down the spine of many gangpiao, especially those with families in the city. Some gangpiao parents went so far as to draw up a “white list” of preferred Hong Kong schools where administrators had taken a conservative position on the protests.

Lynn Lin, a human resources officer at one of China’s leading internet companies, said she was thinking twice about staying in Hong Kong.

“My child was born here but I don’t want her to grow up in a hostile and divided society,” Lin said.

“I would now prefer to send my child to Beijing, my hometown, where she can study in an international school and can get a broader picture about China.”

Alicia Liu, the banker, said she valued the job opportunities in Hong Kong but the violent protests prompted her to think about leaving.

“Apart from the unlawful detention of the two mainlanders at the airport, what’s most appalling to me is that it seems that Hong Kong society supports such unlawful action,” Liu said.

Geng Chunya, president of the Hong Kong Association of Mainland Graduates and a permanent resident since 2001, is not about to leave but he has felt the hostility first hand.

“My 70-year-old father and I returned to Hong Kong after a day trip to Shenzhen in early July. Almost as soon as my father sat down in the MTR and began to speak in Mandarin, the man next to him shouted obscenities and told my father to get out of Hong Kong,” Geng said.

The serious disruption of public transport caused by some protests has further fuelled anger among gangpiao who commute between Hong Kong and the mainland.

“Such actions have crossed the line of freedom of expression,” said Jennie Liang, who works for an asset management company in Central and travels daily from her home in Shenzhen. “They are just selfish and egotistical.”

For other mainlanders in the city, the larger concern is Hong Kong’s long-term role in the region.

Lin Yuxi from Shenzhen runs a 6 billion yuan (US$868 million) private fund out of Hong Kong, investing in mainland Chinese start-ups in pre-IPO funding rounds.

The political unrest of the past two months hasn’t put him off because “freedom of expression within the boundaries of the law is part of Hong Kong’s society, something that is taken for granted”. His big worry is the prospect of Hong Kong having a diminished role in the Greater Bay Area as a result of the turmoil.

“Hong Kong was supposed to play a leading role in the Greater Bay Area, where its legal framework, financial system and services were supposed to be the role model for the rest … to aspire to,” Lin said.

“It was supposed to play a key role in aviation, logistics, finance and innovation. If Hong Kong’s roles were to be diminished, the question for recent arrivals like me would be: why do we bother to put up with the higher costs in this city? We might as well stay in Shenzhen, or move to Guangzhou, where we are closer to the action, and where the cost of living, operations and everything else is cheaper anyway.”

There are signs that Hong Kong has already lost some appeal to mainland migrants. Last year, the

of new arrivals from the mainland with one-way permits. Only 41,000 mainlanders moved to the city in 2017-18, a drop of 14,700 compared with the previous year. In 2005-06, close to 60,000 mainlanders moved to Hong Kong.

Henry Ho, chairman of the One Country Two Systems Youth Forum, a Hong Kong think tank, said that gangpiao, who knew both mainland China and Hong Kong, were an important source of talent for the city, especially as it grappled with challenges such as an ageing population.

“The departure of these people will be a loss for Hong Kong, especially if the trend accelerates as the protests continue and Hong Kong has an acute demand of talent not just from mainland China but from other countries as well,” Ho said.

The protests have left many gangpiao wondering whether they still can call Hong Kong home. Photo: Kristin Huang

The protests have left many gangpiao wondering whether they still can call Hong Kong home. Photo: Kristin Huang

Alexa Chow Yee-ping, managing director of AMAC Human Resources Consultants, agreed that Hong Kong’s economy would suffer if there was an exodus of mainland professionals.

“Hong Kong has an ageing population and we are already at risk of a shortage of manpower, as the population from the post-war baby boom reaches retirement age. Mainland workers have actually provided an important source of human capital for Hong Kong,” Chow said.

“If China-funded businesses find it difficult to hire in Hong Kong, they would move the headcount to the mainland and hire there instead, and this means ultimately their presence in the city could shrink.”

Emily Wang, a Hong Kong University graduate working as an intellectual property lawyer in the manufacturing industry, said she could easily find a higher-paying job than the one she had in Hong Kong. “My husband is now discussing with his company to open a new office in Singapore,” she said.

But food safety – particularly for her children – was one of the reasons why she had chosen to stay.

Meanwhile, others are looking to north for options.

Jennie Liang said reports of Beijing granting greater authority to Shenzhen for reforms could open the door for her.

“Beijing’s plan to make Shenzhen a test-bed city for China and the world will be an important factor for me as to stay or leave Hong Kong,” she said.

Geng, however, said he remained confident, despite the city’s struggles.

“I love Hong Kong deeply. I believe Hong Kong is an important model for all cities on mainland China that they need to improve the rule of law. Hong Kong is a good example of a place where Western values can mix with Eastern traditions. I am confident that Hong Kong’s overall prospects will not be bad.”

Protesters say she was hit by a police beanbag round during a violent protest on August 11, but the force is not taking the blame pending an investigation.

Her injury deepened protesters’ anger towards the police force and sparked more demonstrations, including one at Hong Kong International Airport on August 12, where many chanted “an eye for an eye”.

Protesters in Tsim Sha Tsui. Photo: Felix Wong

Protesters in Tsim Sha Tsui. Photo: Felix Wong

There had been fears the woman could lose her eye, which was ruptured, but the hospital source told the Post that at the moment she was not blind, although there were still uncertainties ahead.

SUBSCRIBE TO Hong Kong News

WHAT DOES THE WORLD READ

ABOUT HONG KONG?

Get the most popular stories about HK daily in your email

She also sustained fractures on her nasal and maxilla, or upper fixed jaw, bones.

“Her right eye can sense light,” the source said. “The worst situation did not happen.”

But the source said it was not yet possible to tell how much vision remained as her condition had not yet stabilised.

“There can be some complications a few weeks to months after the injury,” the source said, citing retinal detachment as one such problem.

The source also did not rule out the possibility that the woman’s eye condition could improve further, adding that she may need more surgery to help her recovery.

“The follow-ups will take a long time,” the source said.

The cause of the woman’s injury has been hotly disputed since she was found lying on Nathan Road with blood pouring from her eye on August 11 on a night of violence.

Demonstrators had besieged the police station for hours and the popular shopping area around the compound became like a war zone as officers fired tear gas and beanbag rounds.

Protesters accused police of causing the woman’s injury, after photos and videos circulating online showed a bloodstained pair of protective goggles which appeared to have been damaged by a beanbag round.

The goggles used by the woman during the protest in Tsim Sha Tsui.

The goggles used by the woman during the protest in Tsim Sha Tsui.

But pro-government supporters had suggested the injury was caused by protesters, as a video recorded on the night showed a person launching a projectile with a catapult in the same area at around the same time.

At a police press conference on Monday, Senior Superintendent Steve Li Kwai-wah of the organised crime and triad bureau said the force still did not know how the woman’s injury occurred. He urged witnesses to contact police to help clarify what happened.

A protester at Hong Kong airport wears an eye patch in a reference to the woman who suffered the eye injury in Tsim Sha Tsui. Photo: Sam Tsang

A protester at Hong Kong airport wears an eye patch in a reference to the woman who suffered the eye injury in Tsim Sha Tsui. Photo: Sam Tsang

The source refused to say whether any item that could have caused the injury was found on the woman, and declined to say whether the hospital had managed to identify the cause.

The source said, however, that in most cases, doctors generally were not able to identify items causing an injury based on the condition of bone fractures.

There have been 2½ months of protests sparked by a now-abandoned extradition bill, which would have allowed Hong Kong to send suspects to jurisdictions with which the city have no such agreement, including mainland China. Protesters have set a list of five demands for the government including the official withdrawal of the bill and an inquiry into police use of force.

Extending the order, Chan noted that while the disturbance had subsided, the threats to the airport remained, including repeated calls on social media urging others to obstruct and interfere with passengers.

On Friday, the Airport Authority placed advertisements in six local newspapers urging people to ‘please love Hong Kong’s airport’. Photo: Dickson Lee

On Friday, the Airport Authority placed advertisements in six local newspapers urging people to ‘please love Hong Kong’s airport’. Photo: Dickson Lee

He said the damage to the reputation of the airport and Hong Kong could not be compensated by money.

“The smooth running of the airport is of crucial significance to Hong Kong, in particular the security and safety of its citizens and travellers, its commercial interests, as well as its international reputation,” he said.

SUBSCRIBE TO Hong Kong News

WHAT DOES THE WORLD READ

ABOUT HONG KONG?

Get the most popular stories about HK daily in your email

“Given the ongoing threat, I have no hesitation in continuing the order,” he said, ruling that it remain in place until further notice.

The Airport Authority went to court on August 13 in a closed-door hearing to seek the order after hundreds of flights were cancelled.

The renewal hearing on Friday was open to the public, in contrast to the first session, which was so secretive that security officers even denied it was happening, and forced reporters to leave the court building.

No party has since come forward to oppose the order, according to lawyers representing the airport operator.

Protesters began to occupy the airport on August 9 to take their cause to an international audience but the sit-in descended into chaos on August 13. There were arguments and scuffles as protesters barricaded departure areas with luggage trolleys to prevent travellers from flying out.

Two mainlanders were detained, zip-tied and assaulted by radical protesters before paramedics could move in to rescue them.

A total of 979 flights were cancelled on Monday and Tuesday last week.

The Airport Authority has sought to stop anyone from “unlawfully and wilfully obstructing or interfering with the proper use” of the airport.

The judge cited an affirmation from an airport staff member saying that “quick access of emergency vehicles and police service response” had been blocked.

The protests last week had turned into chaos on August 13 when some demonstrators attacked two mainlanders. Photo: AFP

The protests last week had turned into chaos on August 13 when some demonstrators attacked two mainlanders. Photo: AFP

He acknowledged there was “a serious issue to be tried” as to whether the occupiers had breached the Airport Authority By-law or caused public nuisance.

On behalf of the authority, Barrister Victor Dawes requested a new term to be added to the original order.

The new version will replace the old notices presently displayed on the walls of the airport and be published in newspapers. It will also be uploaded to the airport’s website.

“Any persons so arrested by the police shall be brought before the court, under lawful arrest or legal processes, as soon as practicable for further directions,” the new version stated.

Airport staff have since put in place various measures to restrict those entering the airport and advised travellers to set aside additional time for check-in.

On Friday, the authority placed advertisements in six local newspapers urging people to “please love Hong Kong’s airport”.

It said operations had largely returned to normal, but it also noticed there had been renewed calls for people to stall traffic leading to the airport.

“The Airport Authority strongly opposes these actions and calls intended to undermine the operations,” the operator said.

The rest of the court order remains unchanged. It bans unlawful and wilful obstruction of the airport and roads nearby, confines any demonstrations or protests “strictly within” two designated areas on two ends of the arrival hall, and bars anyone from “inciting, aiding and/or abetting” any obstructive act. The order also gives the Airport Authority the “liberty to cancel or reduce the size of the protest area” – or extend it. Anyone who violates the order could be sued for contempt of court, a criminal offence that could bring a jail term and fine.

Lawyer Daniel Wong Kwok-tung said the injunction would bar protesters from causing obstructions near the airport on Saturday.

On those who are planning to obstruct roads and railway links leading to the airport, he said: “It will not have any direct relation.” But, he warned that people could still risk breaching the Mass Railway Transit By-law if they tried to block train doors.

However, a spokesman from the authority said: “Blocking roads connecting to the airport may constitute acts of unlawfully and wilfully obstructing or interfering with the proper use of the airport.”

But he refused to spell out the exact roads which, when occupied, would be in violation of the order.

YouTube’s parent company Google also announced it had disabled 210 channels on Friday for “coordinated influence operations” related to the protests, though it did not explicitly say that state interference had been at work.

Social media companies have been under intense pressure to shut down the state actors and suss out fake accounts, but analysts said the use of extreme language in politically motivated posts is a grey area given their reticence about policing political speech.

“They don’t want to take on the role of censor or big brother,” said Katharine Gelber, head of the school of political science and international studies at the University of Queensland.

SUBSCRIBE TO US China Trade War

SCMP NEWS. DELIVERED.

Sign up for our China Breaking News newsletter here

She said these companies must “walk that line” between “facilitating free speech and not acting as censors of political viewpoints they might or might not agree with” while limiting content that could “fuel harmful behaviour”.

On the platforms, such decisions about which posts do or do not violate policy are often subjective decisions and the two platforms apply different standards.

Both Facebook and Twitter’s publicly available definitions of hate speech do not include specific protections for people based on their political affiliation or occupation, but posts attacking people on the basis of race, ethnicity, national origin, religious affiliation, sexual orientation, gender, gender identity are generally grounds for a ban.

Direct incitement and threats of violence are also banned.

In Hong Kong, where many residents’ social media feeds have been overtaken by political posts and polarised commentary, some posts also include angry, derogatory speech and dehumanising messages, with police referred to as “dogs” and protesters as “cockroaches”.

Google, YouTube’s parent company, has been removing content from the platform. Photo: AP

Google, YouTube’s parent company, has been removing content from the platform. Photo: AP

Such postings which may target protesters on the basis of their beliefs underline the “complexity” of social media monitoring, according to Gelber.

“It’s not overtly such an incitement to violence that it would pass an incitement to violence test, but it’s also not traditional hate speech, because its directed at pro-democracy protesters who are of the same ethnicity as the pro-Chinese [side],” she said.

“Any time you start getting language that dehumanises an identifiable subgroup of people by treating them as insects or vermin, implying they need to be eradicated, that is potentially very dangerous speech,” she said.

Social media companies are constantly updating policies and developing measures to address how languages, images, and information are across their platforms.

This is in addition to investigations surrounding coordinated influence campaigns like those banned this week.

Twitter, Facebook and YouTube have taken steps to police fake and inflammatory posts by altering algorithms, adding to the manpower dedicated to moderating and removing content.

Facebook took action against four million pieces of content containing hate speech in the first quarter of 2019, an increase of 700,000 on the previous quarter.

Twitter upped its response times to user reports of abusive accounts, suspending three times as many accounts within 24 hours of them being reported compared to the previous year, according to April’s figures.

Google took down over 75 million YouTube videos in the first three months of this year that were on channels violating their community standards.

Following the Christchurch shootings in March, all three companies signed agreements with world leaders to moderate extreme speech.

The companies are under constant pressure from governments and media to proactively police their platforms and react to the political impact that they have around the world, according to Andre Oboler, director of the Online Hate Prevention Institute in Sydney and a senior lecturer at the La Trobe law school.

“Where the platform could be seen as facilitating something like human rights abuses, that is a major risk factor and threat to the platform, so they need to resolve that issue, [especially] when it’s something that’s all over the mainstream media.”

Identifying and acting against misinformation campaigns like those that targeted the protests in Hong Kong is an important part of that work, as “hateful ideology” is increasingly being used as a “tool” in political “warfare”, Oboler, said, noting that the event follows on the heels of a Russian misinformation campaign targeting the 2016 US elections.

“The Hong Kong situation is an example of what could happen in relation to other countries … if there is no response to what China is doing now, and we have Russia before it, what could be next, what might other states do in terms of influencing another country?”

“I want to reply to Canada with a quotation from Confucius: ‘The superior man is always calm and at ease, the small man is always fretting’,” Geng said.

The Australian, Mexican and South Korean consulates in Hong Kong do not have any travel suspensions in place for local staff. The Italian consulate said Hong Kong staff did not need to travel to the mainland because Italy had three consulates there.

Simon Cheng Man-kit, a Hong Kong national who works as a trade and investment officer for the British consulate, was last heard from by his girlfriend on August 8 while crossing the border to Hong Kong. His family filed a missing-person report with Hong Kong police the next day.

It was not until Wednesday, 12 days after that report, that China’s foreign ministry

that Cheng had been placed under administration detention for 15 days in Shenzhen.

lobal Times, a nationalist tabloid published under the auspices of Communist Party mouthpiece People’s Daily, reported on Thursday that Cheng had been detained for soliciting prostitutes, which is illegal on the mainland.

The British foreign office said after the Global Times report that it

on Cheng.

An earlier Global Times article had attacked Cheng for political posts reportedly found on his social media accounts.

The article suggested that Cheng did not support the principle of “one country, two systems” – under which Hong Kong became part of China but retained certain freedoms – and was sympathetic to the idea of independence for the city as well as for Taiwan. It included an image of a person being slapped in the face, captioned: “I am hitting you on behalf of the Chinese Communist Party.”

On Facebook, a page called “Release Simon Cheng” responded to the Global Times report about soliciting by saying: “Visiting a prostitute? Everyone can continue to treat this as a joke. Ha.”

The detention of Cheng has become a rallying call for Hongkongers, with posters of Cheng visible at a protest in Yuen Long on Wednesday night.

Hong Kong police said on Wednesday that they had received the missing-person report but had not received any notification from mainland authorities.

The notification mechanism between Hong Kong and the mainland regarding such cases does not cover administrative detention, which is an extralegal measure by which people can be held for up to 15 days without trial for a range of offences.

Canada’s decision to halt staff trips follows Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau’s speech to the Montreal Council on Foreign Relations on Wednesday, in which he called for Canada to stand up to China and urged a de-escalation of tensions over

in Hong Kong, which have continued since early June.

China’s foreign ministry responded to Trudeau’s remarks with a strong objection on Thursday, saying that Hong Kong matters were China’s internal affairs and that Canada’s statements on Hong Kong were incorrect and amounted to meddling.

“This discovery was consistent with recent observations and actions related to China announced by Facebook and Twitter,” the online search giant’s director of software engineering, Shane Huntley, said in the post.

“We found use of VPNs and other methods to disguise the origin of these accounts and other activity commonly associated with coordinated influence operations,” Huntley added.

On Monday, Twitter said that 936 accounts originating from China had been suspended for a number of violations of the company’s “platform manipulation policies”, including spam, coordinated activity, fake accounts and ban evasion.

SUBSCRIBE TO US China Trade War

SCMP NEWS. DELIVERED.

Sign up for our China Breaking News newsletter here

Facebook followed almost immediately, announcing that it had removed seven pages, three groups and five accounts involved in what the company called “coordinated inauthentic behaviour as part of a small network that originated in China and focused on Hong Kong”.

Twitter, Facebook and most other Western social media platforms are blocked in mainland China by the Great Firewall of censorship and filtering, but they are accessible in Hong Kong, where anti-government protests have been escalating for nearly three months.

Allegations that the Chinese government is behind accounts pushing pro-Beijing viewpoints of the unrest, and the response by the US social media giants, have further exacerbated bilateral tensions.

that has escalated for more than a year, and Washington has put sanctions in place against Chinese telecoms equipment makers including

Technologies.

China’s foreign ministry has objected to the closing of the social media accounts, and several US lawmakers have said the alleged state-supported disinformation campaign was another example of Beijing’s threat to national security.

“I believe people around the world will come to their own judgment about what happens in Hong Kong and what is the truth,” China’s foreign ministry spokesman Geng Shuang said on Tuesday in response to the moves by Twitter and Facebook. “Why do you think what is described by the Chinese state-run media outlets must be negative or wrong?”

US Senator Mark Warner, Democrat of Virginia, is vice-chairman of the Senate Intelligence Committee. Photo: Bloomberg

Meanwhile, the vice-chairman of the US Senate Intelligence Committee, Senator Mark Warner, said China was trying to engineer “social control” beyond its borders.

“As I’ve emphasised previously, China has long been a pioneer in harnessing communications technologies for social control, censorship and surveillance,” Warner said on Thursday, shortly before the announcement by Google.

“The Chinese government has built an entire infrastructure to support its efforts at information control, through a combination of censorship and disinformation,” added the Democrat from Virginia. “And it’s exporting both the technology and ideas of information control to authoritarian regimes around the world.”

House Intelligence Committee Chairman Adam Schiff weighed in earlier this week with a similar sentiment.

“Social media platforms and the US government must continue to identify and combat state-backed information operations online, whether they’re aimed at disrupting our elections or undermining peaceful protesters who seek freedom and democracy,” the Democratic representative from California said in a Twitter post on Tuesday.

While China has effective control over domestic sentiment, it has struggled to sway global opinion, which has been overwhelmingly sympathetic towards the demonstrators in Hong Kong.

Frustrated with what Beijing sees as biased reporting, the foreign ministry sent a letter on Tuesday to more than 30 overseas media outlets in Beijing, calling on them to take their “due social responsibility” to help “protesters ignorant of the truth to get back to the right path”.

The letter, signed by Hua Chunying, the newly promoted head of the foreign ministry’s information department, was accompanied by a 41-page dossier of news clippings to support the central government’s position on Hong Kong affairs, including what Beijing said was evidence of “foreign interference” in the situation.

“Regrettably, however, there is still some coverage based on selective facts or no facts at all,” a copy of Hua’s letter obtained by the South China Morning Post said.

British broadcaster the BBC, American outlets including NBC, Bloomberg and The Wall Street Journal, and Japan’s NHK national broadcaster and Asahi newspaper were among those to receive the letter.

The letter also said that foreign media had an important role to play in guiding “misled” public opinion in Hong Kong and restoring order in the city.

“Hong Kong is at critical moment,” the letter said. “The call for rule of law, order and tranquillity represents the mainstream public opinion in Hong Kong. The pressing task is to stop violence, end chaos and restore order, where I believe the media have an important role to play.

“I hope that you and the media agency you lead will take up your due social responsibility and make reports that are neutral, objective, impartial and comprehensive, so that your coverage may help those protesters ignorant of the truth to get back to the right path, and help those who have been seriously misled to come to a rational and fair judgment.”

The longest chapter in the dossier is devoted to what Beijing said was evidence of “foreign interference in Hong Kong affairs”, citing reports from mostly Chinese state media outlets including CGTN, China Daily and Global Times, which claimed that protesters were supported and funded by Western governments and organisations, such as the National Endowment for Democracy, a US non-profit organisation, which Chinese media reports alleged was backed by the CIA.

Yik Chan Chin, an assistant professor of media and communications at Xian Jiaotong-Liverpool University, said: “The Chinese government has established effective control over domestic media after the Hong Kong protests showed signs of violence and posed a challenge to the central government’s authority.”

The situation overseas was different, she said, with media there focused on the actions of Hong Kong police instead of the violence from protesters.

“China has felt that it is at such disadvantage,” Chin said. “It cannot control the overseas media, and its own media outlets are not trusted by the mainstream Western world.”

Since taking power in 2012, President Xi Jinping has urged state media to “tell the China story well” in the hope of boosting the country’s soft power and cultural influence.

Hua Chunying, head of the Chinese foreign ministry’s information department, sent a letter and 41-page dossier to foreign news outlets across China explaining Beijing’s position. Photo: AP

Hua Chunying, head of the Chinese foreign ministry’s information department, sent a letter and 41-page dossier to foreign news outlets across China explaining Beijing’s position. Photo: AP

But the protests in Hong Kong – along with China’s year-long trade war with the US – have put to the test China’s ability to influence the way the international media tells the story, despite Beijing’s efforts to expand its propaganda campaign through social media platforms.

Beijing’s efforts to expand its campaign overseas backfired this week. On Monday, Facebook and Twitter announced action against coordinated efforts by the Chinese government and those associated with it to manipulate information about the protests in Hong Kong.