A Hong Kong woman arrested during a protest has accused a female officer of conducting an unreasonable full strip search without gloves, and of using a pen to force her to spread her legs. The incident was described as a “metoo” sexual assault case at a press conference on Friday.

The protester, who gave the pseudonym Ms Lui, was arrested at a protest several weeks ago. She was hospitalised shortly afterwards owing to injuries sustained at the protest. Charges were laid against her two days after the arrest, but she could not attend a police station because of her injuries.

After a few days, Lui was discharged from hospital, where officers checked clothes that her family had delivered to her. Officers were present as Lui changed her clothes.

When Lui left the hospital, she said she was not sent to court, but to a nearby police station instead. There, she was ordered into a room with two female officers who Liu said bore the ID numbers 26522 and 55827 on their shoulders.

One officer ordered her to remove all of her clothes including her underwear, Lui said. When she asked for the reason, and the officer said: “Because you violated the law, you have to be strip-searched.”

Lui said she was scared and complied. She said she tried to cover her private parts with her hands, but an officer used a pen to hit her hand. The officer prompted her to open her legs by tapping her inner thighs using the pen.

She was also told to crouch and stand up three times, but she could not do so because of her injury. The officer then told her to turn around: “When I turned, I saw the other officer starring at me with pleasure,” she said.

An officer then asked to examine her clothes. The officer did so without wearing gloves, Lui said.

Lui dressed herself and opened the door to leave, and found that more than 10 male officers were outside.

“I was very embarrassed, I really wanted to cry. But I hold my fist tight and told myself I cannot cry in front of them, because I knew that I would lose if I cried,” she said. “I want to ask the police: Is it the case that, when we are arrested, we lose all our basic human rights, and we lose the basic respect for women?” she added.

Lui said she was depressed after the incident and – after being bailed – was afraid to go out in public, fearing the police.

She thanked Civic Party lawmaker Tanya Chan and her lawyers Olga Choi and Benson Chan, who helped her and were present at the press conference.

“They told me that I did not do anything wrong. They told me it was not wrong to speak up for justice,” she said.

Benson Chan said that Lui’s case did not involve any drugs or banned items on her body. He said the search was unreasonable.

“If the police had already confirmed the charges to be laid against her, shouldn’t the search be done before [she was hospitalised]?” he said.

Chan said the officers should have worn gloves, if they truly believed they would find drugs or banned items on her body.

He said Lui was asked to sign a document agreeing to the search, only after it was conducted, but Lui refused.

“The only conclusion is that it was an abuse,” he said.

He said the officers may have committed indecent assault, conspiracy to indecent assault and conspiracy to assault.

When asked about the case at a regular police press conference on Friday, Senior Superintendent (Operations) of Kowloon East Suzette Foo said she understood that body searches may be uncomfortable and embarrassing: “But I want the public to understand that a body search is necessary and the police have our own considerations. Police have strict guidelines over body searches.”

Asked if gloves are required for body searches, Foo said it would be decided by the officers involved.

Foo said the police only just heard about the case and did not have relevant information immediately available. She said the force will follow up seriously with regards to the incident, as Lui’s lawyers have said they will file a complaint.

Hong Kong’s rail operator has announced that it may close down stations “without prior notice” if violent protests occur at its stations, just hours after Chinese state media criticised the company for being too lenient on demonstrators.

On Thursday evening, the MTR Corporation said that its past practice during clashes at stations was to arrange special trains to pick up passengers stranded there, while having other trains skip that station to avoid endangering other commuters.

But the policy may soon change, the company said in a statement: “If fights, vandalism or other acts of violence occur, under emergency situation[s], operation and train service at the stations concerned may be immediately stopped, and/or the station will be closed, without prior notice.”

“Under safe circumstances, the Corporation will continue to dispatch trains to pick up passengers who are stranded in stations as far as practicable. However, the police may need to enter stations to take suitable law enforcement when necessary.”

The announcement came after state media People’s Daily published a commentary article saying that MTRC was giving “nice treatment” to black-clad protesters.

yuen long china extradition 21 august (29)

“What is most intriguing is that the MTRC not only delayed in calling the police, it even arranged special trains for rioters to escape for free,” read the article.

“This really is a puzzling scene. Those dressed in black have broken the law and disrupted social order, but can receive such preferential treatment. What is wrong with the MTRC?”

The article went on to say that the railway operator “confused its role” and should put the public interest first. “Truth to be told, the MTRC is not the only one of its kind in today’s Hong Kong. Faced with rioters making waves, some have been reticent and some even support them covertly.”

Meanwhile, China’s state-run news agency Xinhua shared a video claiming that the transit firm was laying on “exclusive,” free services for violent protesters.

It questioned whether the MTRC was an “accomplice to rioters.”

On Wednesday evening, hundreds of protesters filled Yuen Long MTR station on the one-month anniversary of the July 21 Yuen Long mob attack. Riot police and protesters were locked in a standoff, as demonstrators scrawled graffiti on the station walls, barricaded an exit and set off fire extinguishers. Most left via MTR trains without direct clashes occurring.

In its Thursday statement, the MTRC condemned protesters who vandalised their stations and harassed railway staff.

In the early days of the anti-extradition bill movement, police officers often refrained from entering MTR stations to make arrests or disperse protesters.

However, riot police entered Yuen Long station and targetted protesters on July 28. And on August 11, the force fired crowd control weapons in Tai Koo and Kwai Fong stations.

The announcement by YouTube’s parent company came after Twitter and Facebook accused the Chinese government of backing a social media campaign to discredit Hong Kong’s protest movement and sow political discord in the city.

Google disabled 210 YouTube channels that it found behaved in a coordinated manner while uploading videos related to the Hong Kong protests, according to Shane Huntley of the company’s security threat analysis group.

“This discovery was consistent with recent observations and actions related to China announced by Facebook and Twitter,” Huntley said in an online post.

Twitter and Facebook announced this week that they suspended nearly 1,000 active accounts linked to a coordinated influence campaign. Twitter said it had shut down about 200,000 more before they could inflict any damage.

“These accounts were deliberately and specifically attempting to sow political discord in Hong Kong, including undermining the legitimacy and political positions of the protest movement on the ground,” Twitter said, referring to the active accounts it shut down.

Facebook said some of the posts from accounts it banned compared the protesters in Hong Kong with Islamic State group militants, branded them “cockroaches” and alleged they planned to kill people using slingshots.

China has “taken a page from Russia’s playbook” as it uses social media platforms outside the country to wage a disinformation campaign against the protests, according to the non-profit Soufan Center for research, analysis, and strategic dialogue related to global security issues.

“Beijing has deployed a relentless disinformation campaign on Twitter and Facebook powered by unknown numbers of bots, trolls, and so-called ‘sock puppets,'” the center said on its website, referring to fake online identities created for deception.

“China’s behavior will likely grow more aggressive in both the physical and virtual realms, using on-the-ground actions to complement an intensifying cyber campaign characterized by disinformation, deflection, and obfuscation.”

While social media platforms have been tools for people to advocate for rights, justice or freedom in their countries, the services are being turned on them by oppressive governments, according to the Soufan Center.

“Autocratic governments are now using these same platforms to disparage demonstrators, divide protest movements, and confuse sympathetic onlookers,” the center said.

Hong Kong, a semi-autonomous southern Chinese city and one of the world’s most important financial hubs, is in the grip of an unprecedented political crisis that has seen millions of people take to the streets demanding greater freedoms.

China’s government has publicly largely left the city’s leaders and police force to try and resolve the crisis, but behind the scenes online, Beijing is seeking to sway public opinion about Hong Kong, according to Twitter and Facebook.

“We are disclosing a significant state-backed information operation focused on the situation in Hong Kong, specifically the protest movement and their calls for political change,” Twitter said.

It said it had pulled 936 accounts originating in China that were spreading disinformation.

Twitter and Facebook are banned in China, part of the government’s so-called “Great Firewall” of censorship.

Because of the bans, many of the fake accounts were accessed using “virtual private networks” that give a deceptive picture of the user’s location, Twitter said.

Facebook said it had acted on a tip from Twitter, removing seven pages, three groups and five Facebook accounts that had about 15,500 followers.

“Although the people behind this activity attempted to conceal their identities, our investigation found links to individuals associated with the Chinese government,” Facebook said.

Airline Cathay Dragon has fired the chair of its flight attendant union Rebecca Sy after she allegedly posted messages of support for Hong Kong protesters on Facebook.

An online petition has been launched urging the airline to provide a reason for Sy’s dismissal and to reverse its decision. It also praised Sy for her contribution to the union, saying the airline should respect the right to freedom of speech.

“Our president dedicated her life to our airline, and such effort should not be neglected. If our management is doing such action due to her shared post which [did not do] any harm to our airlines’s image on Facebook, we are urging our company to respect freedom of speech as one of our human rights,” it read.

Sy’s remarks online were screen captured by a former colleague and sent to groups supportive of the government, Apple Daily reported. The former colleague, a relative of a senior police officer, urged people to report Sy to the Civil Aviation Administration of China (CAAC), the report said.

‘White terror’

At a Friday press conference, Sy said she had been able to fly to Beijing and back to Hong Kong on August 19 and 20. However, she was told not to work on a scheduled Hangzhou trip after the Beijing flight.

She said she was told to go to Cathay Pacific’s headquarters on August 21 and was shown three Facebook screenshots which she confirmed were hers.

She was then immediately terminated. Sy said she was told by an officer that “I am sorry I can’t tell you the reason.”

“Our colleagues had tried to follow the rules given by the Civil Aviation Administration of China, I don’t know how much more we have to bend down so that we are safe,” she said. “I don’t want anyone else to receive such treatment like mine.”

“This is not just about me. This is about the whole industry. This is about Hong Kong. When will this white terror end?” she added.

Carol Ng, chair of the Confederation of Trade Unions, said the aviation industry was likely targeted because it had the highest participation rate in the August 5 strike.

Ng said the group will file a lawsuit on behalf of Sy. She also said they will file complaints to the International Civil Aviation Organisation and other international unions.

“It is useless to be obedient. It is useless to compromise. We need to fight,” she said.

Cathay Pacific, the parent company of Cathay Dragon, declined to comment on internal employee matters.

In a new statement issued on Friday, Cathay Pacific Director Corporate Affairs James Tong said: “Cathay Pacific wishes to emphasise it fully supports the upholding of the Basic Law and all the rights and freedoms afforded by it.”

“We are a leading international airline with global operations and therefore we are required to comply with all applicable laws and regulations in the jurisdictions where we operate,” it added.

“Recent weeks have been most challenging for all of our people. We thank all our dedicated staff who are committed to serving our customers in a professional manner.”

Cathay Pacific has faced pressure from China as the CAAC imposed new safety rules on the airline on August 9, forcing the carrier to prevent employees supportive of the Hong Kong protests to board flights to, or passing over, China.

‘Exercise caution’

At around 5pm on Friday, Cathay Pacific released a statement saying Sy’s dismissal had nothing to do with her activities in the union but declined to elaborate further on the reason for her departure.

“We would like to reiterate that we do not in any way discriminate against union members or their activities. Any actions taken by the Group with regards to our employees is always in strict accordance with the terms of their relevant employment contracts as well as applicable laws and regulations,” it read.

Last Friday, Cathay CEO Rupert Hogg and top deputy Paul Loo resigned — days after two pilots were fired over incidents connected to the city’s pro-democracy protests.

A new set of guidelines was issued by Cathay Pacific on Wednesday saying that employee’s use of social media inside and outside of work could breach rules imposed by CAAC.

“[E]mployees should always exercise caution about how their social media usage may be relevant to their own employment, the welfare of others and the business,” it said.

Cathay Pacific confirmed on Wednesday that a pilot, who became an internet sensation after expressing support for the city’s protesters, was “no longer an employee” for the carrier.

Lawmaker Jeremy Tam from the pro-democracy Civic Party announced on Tuesday that he was leaving Cathay Pacific, where he had been employed as a pilot for nearly two decades, in order to protect the company from “unreasonable attacks.”

Meanwhile, two Airport Authority staff were fired earlier in the week. Local broadsheet Ming Pao cited sources as saying that the two former employees had worked at managerial levels for almost 20 years.

The revelation came after screenshots of employees discussing airport operations and security were leaked on August 13 while protesters were conducting a sit-in at the airport.

A Hong Kong court on Friday granted an extension to an injunction to clear protesters in the airport except for those in designated areas until further notice.

Hong Kong student leaders on Thursday announced a two-week boycott of lectures from the upcoming start of term, as they seek to keep protesters on the streets and pressure on the government.

The financial hub has been rocked by three months of unrest, with students making up a large number of the pro-democracy protesters taking to the streets almost daily.

Student leaders representing most of the city’s major universities said students will miss lectures between September 2 — the planned start of the new term — and September 13.

They threatened further action if the government does not adequately respond to the protesters’ five demands, which include spiking a controversial extradition bill, universal suffrage and an independent inquiry into alleged police abuses during the protests.

“Two weeks should be enough for the government to really think through how to respond,” said Davin Wong, acting president of the Hong Kong University Students’ Union.

“As the situation has gotten more intense, we believe the social situation will bring more students into the boycott.”

Wong said students will be encouraged to take time to “understand what happened in our society… what we can do for our city’s future.”

Students have featured prominently in the weeks of protests that have rocked Hong Kong.

The demonstrations were sparked by an attempt by the city’s government to bring in a bill that would have allowed for extradition to China.

But they quickly morphed into a wider pro-democracy campaign, in a city where young people are boxed in by the soaring cost of living and worsening job prospects.

More than 78 million Facebook users follow the page of the state-run China Daily, where they are served a diet of largely positive — and Beijing-approved — stories about the authoritarian nation.

Not a bad fan base, considering that Facebook is banned in China.

The huge and growing social media presence of Beijing-run organizations pushing a decidedly pro-China line came under the spotlight this week when Facebook and Twitter announced that they had uncovered a propaganda campaign to shape global opinion on Hong Kong’s pro-democracy protests.

The two platforms — neither of which is legally accessible in China — said that they were closing accounts they believed were linked to a government campaign to spread disinformation.

Twitter said it had suspended nearly 1,000 users originating in China, while Facebook removed seven pages, three groups and five accounts it said were involved in “coordinated inauthentic behavior” focused on Hong Kong.

The territory has seen months of unrest as citizens protest what they have said is an erosion of freedoms under Beijing’s tightening grip.

As well as peaceful rallies of up to 2 million people, there have been clashes with police and temporary shutdowns of the airport.

High-school students thronged a square in central Hong Kong yesterday. Hundreds of teenagers, wearing black and holding umbrellas in the oppressive heat, turned out for the rally, chanting: “Liberate Hong Kong” and “Revolution of our times.”

Hong Kong student leaders yesterday announced a two-week boycott of university lectures from the upcoming start of term.

Leaders representing most of the territory’s major universities said that students would miss lectures from Sept. 2 — the planned start of the new term — to Sept. 13.

They threatened further action if the Hong Kong government does not adequately respond to the protesters’ five demands, which include spiking an extradition bill, universal suffrage and an independent inquiry into alleged police abuses during the protests.

“Two weeks should be enough for the government to really think through how to respond,” said Davin Wong (黃程鋒), acting president of the Hong Kong University Students’ Union. “As the situation has gotten more intense, we believe the social situation will bring more students into the boycott.”

Students will be encouraged to take time to “understand what happened in our society ... what we can do for our city’s future,” Wong said.

While Beijing has not intervened directly, its powerful media machine has steadily ramped up a war of words.

“From destroying government buildings to ... lynching, the Hong Kong rioters are standing on the brink of terrorism,” the China Daily — which, along with other state media, was not included in Facebook’s cleanup — wrote on its page on Wednesday.

There have been no credible reports of lynching during the protests.

Beijing wants to “shape international perception of what is happening in Hong Kong,” said Anne-Marie Brady, a professor at the University of Canterbury in New Zealand who researches Chinese politics and media.

“The [Chinese Communist Party’s] propaganda tradition is to use every possible medium, so it is no surprise to see them operating on Twitter and Facebook too,” she told reporters.

While Western media traditionally reliant on advertising dollars have struggled to adapt to the free-for-all of the Internet, well-funded Chinese state media outlets have ramped up their global footprint in recent years.

This story has been viewed 1682 times.

Comments will be moderated. Keep comments relevant to the article. Remarks containing abusive and obscene language, personal attacks of any kind or promotion will be removed and the user banned. Final decision will be at the discretion of the Taipei Times.

Some of Hong Kong’s biggest banks yesterday published full-page newspaper advertisements calling for the preservation of law and order in the territory and condemning violence, as weeks of pro-democracy protests show no sign of abating.

HSBC Holdings PLC, Standard Chartered PLC and Bank of East Asia Ltd (東亞銀行), which published the advertisements in major newspapers, urged the restoration of social order.

Continuing protests could worsen the effects on the territory’s economy, especially for small and medium enterprises, Bank of East Asia said on Wednesday after reporting a 75 percent plunge in its first-half net profit due to loan write-downs in mainland China.

The protests are already exacting a toll on Hong Kong’s economy and tourism, with the territory on the verge of its first recession in a decade.

Standard Chartered said in the advertisements that the bank supports the territory’s government to uphold social order and “guard the status of Hong Kong as an international financial center.”

HSBC said that all parties must resolve disagreement through communication rather than violence.

Neither HSBC nor Bank of East Asia referred to the government in their advertisements.

Hong Kong stocks are poised for their worst quarter since 2015 and corporate earnings are unlikely to save them.

After a sell-off erased more than US$600 billion from the territory’s equities, attractive valuations stood as a potential bright spot, but those multiples do not look so good when analysts keep slashing their profit forecasts for this year.

Their call for an average 19 percent slump in operating income would be the biggest contraction for Hang Seng Index companies since the global financial crisis, data compiled by Bloomberg showed.

While a protracted US-China trade dispute and a weak yuan are to blame for a big chunk of the profit reductions, the latest cuts reveal a deeper issue.

With Hong Kong’s slowing economy buckling under the pressure of 11 weeks of protests, demand for everything from bank loans to utility gas might be jeopardized.

“The third quarter could be even worse given the local political situation and the trade war escalation,” Amber Hill Capital Ltd (安山資本) asset management director Jackson Wong (黃志陽) said. “Potential downside surprises have not been fully reflected in share prices.”

A weak yuan is also bad news for the Hang Seng Index: Its firms get an average 64 percent of revenue from the mainland and 22 percent from Hong Kong, Morgan Stanley calculated.

The currency broke past the key HK$7 per US dollar this month for the first time since 2008, and has traded weaker than that level for more than two weeks.

This story has been viewed 1012 times.

Comments will be moderated. Keep comments relevant to the article. Remarks containing abusive and obscene language, personal attacks of any kind or promotion will be removed and the user banned. Final decision will be at the discretion of the Taipei Times.

US President Donald Trump and Chinese President Xi Jinping (習近平) both face critical decisions on the looming crisis in Hong Kong, and Xi’s position is far weaker and more precarious.

If Beijing unleashes a military crackdown on the territory’s protests and brings it ever more tightly under Chinese control, it will put the final nail in the coffin of former Chinese leader Deng Xiaoping’s (鄧小平) “one country, two systems” formula for Taiwan and Hong Kong.

If, on the other hand, Xi directs the Hong Kong authorities to accommodate the demands of the protestors, he will suffer some loss of prestige with hardliners in China’s People’s Liberation Army and political rivals within the Chinese Communist Party.

Such a move could be defended against those internal critics as merely constituting a return to Hong Kong’s “status quo ante” prior to the despised extradition proposal and the earlier restrictions on Hong Kong’s autonomy.

However, it would be seen widely by China’s super-hawks as two steps forward and two steps back — really three, because it will show other dissatisfied groups in China that the regime can be defied successfully.

If Xi yields to that pressure, he can expect that Western revulsion will be manifested more concretely, and honestly, than it was after the Tiananmen Square Massacre in 1989, precisely because of the guilt and shame governments felt after their craven return to business-as-usual then, and because Hong Kongers will have been deprived of something they already enjoyed under the promise of international agreements.

The territory’s status as a model of financial and legal stability will be shattered along with its usefulness to Beijing as a conduit to the civilized business world.

Trump — who has repeatedly expressed sympathy for Xi’s dilemma — faces his own, but much less painful, choice.

He can pursue the course he has been on for most of the duration of the building crisis, finessing it to the furthest extent possible by mildly calling on both sides to show restraint with the hope that Xi will express his gratitude by coming to terms in trade negotiations.

Or, he can throw the US’ moral weight on the side of the Hong Kong people and risk China’s wrath and retaliation in the form of further bad-faith recalcitrance in the trade talks.

That approach would have at least some impact on the US economy and the stock market — and potentially complicate Trump’s re-election prospects. Perhaps, but not necessarily.

It also would be consistent with the universal principles of Western civilization and the finest traditions of the US’ place in the world — welcoming Hong Kong as another “shining city on a hill.”

It would provide the basis for a resounding presidential campaign speech and, for many doubters of Trump’s commitment to democracy and human rights, a genuine profile in courage.

On the other hand, for those who style themselves as political pragmatists and hardheaded realists, there are less altruistic reasons for Trump to take a firm position in support of the Hong Kong people.

Their struggle is bringing to a head the inherent contradiction within the Chinese communist system that has existed since 1949: It is fundamentally incapable of meeting the human aspirations the Chinese share with the rest of humanity.

As the people of Hong Kong are showing, and the rise and fall of dictatorships in South Korea and other places have demonstrated, during the postwar era, even material prosperity, while certainly preferable to want and poverty, is not sufficient to fulfill the human condition.

This story has been viewed 1162 times.

Comments will be moderated. Keep comments relevant to the article. Remarks containing abusive and obscene language, personal attacks of any kind or promotion will be removed and the user banned. Final decision will be at the discretion of the Taipei Times.