My pleasure.

I think education is the single most important thing that we Conservatives believe in. In the sense that it is the tool that every kid should have to make the most of their talents and their opportunities, and a great education is the job of the state to provide to absolutely everybody. What's been happening in the UK over the last few years is that too many schools have been falling behind in their per capita provision. So what I want to do, day one, is level up and make sure that everybody, primary schools and secondary schools, get the funding they need. We're also announcing today something for special educational needs schools as well.

What we want to do is to give parents the ability, where they think there's need, to go for special educational needs schools, for free schools and we will back that up and we'll support them. I think very often local authorities need the extra help to make sure they have enough provision nearby.

Well actually, of course, as the great Tunisian scholar and sage Ibn Khaldun pointed out as early as the 14th century, there are plenty of taxes that you can cut which will actually increase your revenues and there are ways of making sure that you can stimulate growth, you stimulate enterprise and you get more in. But what is certainly true is at the moment Sophy there is cash available.

Well there's headroom of about £22-£25 billion at the moment and…

That's right but there's definitely headroom and if you look at February alone the Chancellor's revenues exceeded his expenditure.

Well believe me there is cash now available.

I think at the moment there is the headroom available and we intend to use it. I also think you can do some great things to stimulate economic growth with tax cuts.

If it's borrowing to finance great infrastructure projects and there is an opportunity to borrow at low rates and do things for the long term benefit of the country then we should do them. But there are some projects- don't forget in this country we are spending about £250 billion on public procurement per year of one kind or another. Don't tell me there aren't significant savings to be found in the way that we spend that money.

I'm prepared to borrow to finance certain great objectives but overall we will keep fiscal responsibility and keep going with the general trajectory of ensuring that this country pays its way and lives within its means. But you can do that with some sensible tax cuts that will stimulate growth, stimulate enterprise, get more revenue in and also use the headroom we've currently got to spend on things that I think are really important, like education and policing.

I think we should be looking at lifting people on low incomes out of tax, lifting the thresholds for national insurance and I would remind you that that's where my priority is. When I was Mayor of London we led the way, for instance with the London living wage and I think lifting NI contribution thresholds would be another good thing to do.

The living wage...

Well I certainly believe in lifting the living wage and I'm not going to set a figure now. As you know there is a process by which that figure is determined. I thoroughly support the impartiality and the fact-based way that is done and wouldn't want to interpose my own judgement now on this show. But look at what I did when I was Mayor. We massively expanded the living wage. We put cash into the pockets of the poorest families across London. I'm incredibly proud of that. This country needs higher pay, not higher taxes and that's what I want to achieve.

It's at or around £10 or so.

Sorry I was talking about the London living wage, forgive me.

I'm talking about the London living wage, forgive me.

Believe me, I believe in expanding the living wage where it's possible.

I don't mean literally that we're going to die Sophy if we don't leave.

I think that what we will face is a political extinction, and literally I think we will have a drift away from not just from the Conservative Party but from both the main parties.

I think it will suffer very considerably from an electorate that feels they can't trust politicians to deliver on their promises.

This is the old proroguing question.

Yes

What's much more important is that MPs understand the gravity of the situation and behave with responsibility and recognise that the only way to restore trust and confidence in politics is to get this thing done.

I don't like the idea of proroguing. I'm not remotely attracted to it, but you know MPs have got to understand it's their responsibility to get this thing done and that was by far the best solution. I don't want to prorogue Parliament nor do I expect to. I don't think that's going to be necessary and I think that its's far more important that MPs focus on where we are. Because politics has changed since March 29th and people can see than unless we get Brexit done there is going to be a continuing haemorrhage of trust and of confidence in my party and Labour as well. I mean Labour, spectacular incompetence, managed to go backwards in the council elections as well.

Well actually I think that our European friends and partners can see very clearly what the answer is.

Well I don't think that they are going to want a disorderly Brexit of any kind and it's not in their interests. There's no reason why they should want the sudden imposition of tariffs and quotas.

SR; So you're just ignoring what they're saying?

No, well I think it's possibly the case that they would say that at this particular stage in the negotiations. You would expect them to say that kind of thing. We are going to work very hard to show our earnestness, our sincerity. What we want to do is take the elements of the current Withdrawal Agreement, which really doesn't work at all it's a defunct agreement but there are some good bits, like the bit about citizens. We should pass that through. The money, the £39 billion, I would suspend that in creative ambiguity wait until we get a deal and then solve the problems of the Northern Irish border.

Well, let's see.

That is not the objective I want. That is not the objective I seek.

I think it would be very very strange if the EU was to go for a solution in which their vehicles coming to the UK, in huge numbers by the way, face tariffs. There are some people, like Mervyn King, the former Governor of the Bank of England, who thinks that that would be very good and we would rake in €35 billion in tariffs. Because after all the EU has a colossal surplus with us in goods. I don't want that at all. That's not the way to go. It doesn't make any sense. The way forward, Sophy, is to have a standstill in the current arrangements.

You do, but for the reasons I've just given, I think they have a powerful incentive to get it done, and I go further. I go further, and say that, actually, when you consider they have now, since March 29th, they have a large contingent of Eurosceptic British MEPs in Strasbourg, a continual thorn in their side, they are going to want to get this thing over the line.

That was not the context of the conversation at all.

My words have been totally taken out of context.

I'll tell you. I was being told that there was absolutely no way that the UK could leave the Single Market and the Customs Union and that we would have to stay run by the EU, and I don't think that is the case. I think, actually, if you look at my record, as somebody who has campaigned for business, who has stuck for business through thick and thin, I don't think there's a politician like it. I can't think of anybody in my party or any party that has stuck up for financial services in London during some very difficult times, and indeed I can't think of anybody who has gone around the world championing UK businesses and driving home the message about this or that contract and genuinely acting as an ambassador and evangelist for UK business. That is what I will be if I'm lucky enough to be elected.

Of course I feel very bad about all the consular cases in Iran, particularly Nazanin.

Yes I do. I feel sorry for her, for her daughter, for her husband Richard and I've said this many many times. I feel a deep sense of anguish for what she has been going through.

When it comes to responsibility for what she is suffering I think that is incredibly important that we in the UK do not unwittingly give aid and succour to the people who are really responsible, which is not the Foreign Office, not the former Foreign Secretary, and no-one in London is responsible for incarcerating Nazanin Zaghari-Ratcliffe. The people who are responsible are the Iranian Revolutionary Guard, and anything you do to exculpate them is, I think, a great shame.

Would you say that they were wholly responsible?

Would you say they were wholly responsible or only partly responsible?

Of course, I do feel a deep sense of anguish about it as I have said and I have apologised several times in the House of Commons and elsewhere, but it is very very important that in this conversation we don't allow whatever I may have said or done to cloud the issue, which is that the people incarcerating Nazanin and others are Khatim Sulaimani and the Iranian Revolutionary Guard. They are doing it illegally, they are doing it inhumanely and they should release her and others, and I think it's very very important that we focus on that message.

In a wholly satirical way by the way.

No, I think if you look at each and every one of those columns or articles you'll find that the quotations have been wrenched out of context, in many cases made to mean the opposite of what was intended, and actually look at my record whilst I was Mayor of London. If you want to look at somebody who's campaigned for gender equality, look at what we did in the Foreign Office where had a huge campaign for 12 years of quality education for every girl in the world that was massively successful, it was taken up by other countries. Look at the way I ran London. We had huge campaigns to protect the rights of women and particularly against violence against women, and I think sometimes there is a tendency, as I say, take words out of context rather than to look at what I actually did.

On the contrary, I take full responsibility for everything I've said. Just look at what I've actually done. When I took over running London eleven years ago, the city was in the grip of the biggest recession in that we've known for 50 years. We had riots, heaven knows what we had to go through to get ready for the Olympics. I took full responsibility for all those things. I took responsibility for one thing that was the crime wave afflicting London and I took personal responsibility for it and actually, by dint of some very tough measures, by getting the police out on the street, by giving them the power, the political top cover to do stop and search, we got the murder rate down by 50%, under 100 a year, which is an amazing thing for a city the size of London. Yes, I did take personal responsibility for those things and I take personal responsibility for everything I say and do.

No, everything. I take personal responsibility, most importantly, for the vote to leave the European Union. I played a part in that campaign and I'm very proud of what we did but I take personal responsibility now for what is happening to our country, for the drift and the dither, and the indecision , and the failure to be sufficiently robust in the negotiations which we've seen so far and what I want to add now is my own ability, I think, to lead us out of this mess, to get Brexit done by October 31st and then to do for the whole country what we did in London which is to bring it together. We're a great country. We're a great economy, let's believe in ourselves. I think we've spent three years being told by people 'we can't do x,y, and z because we're not up to it', 'we can't leave the European Union because it's all too alarming.' Actually, it's not. This is an extraordinary country capable of doing extraordinary things. We will get ready, in a very sensible and sober way, to come out on October 31st, with no deal if we absolutely have to. But we will get a deal with our friends and partners that provides security for business, for investment snf allows us to carry on, and then we will get on with the agenda I've been talking about.

Ashurbanipal, he was pretty tough on his enemies. His great grandfather Sennacherib, of course, came down like the wolf on the fold and his cohorts were gleaming in purple and gold. I can't remember what Ashurbanipal did with his enemies.

This election is by no means over, Sophy. There's a long way to go. I'm full of admiration for lots of people in the Conservative Party. I've never known a time where there's been so much talent on the Conservative benches. I admire Jeremy very much and whatever happens he will not be in a dog kennel, I can tell you that much, with or without a chain around his neck. That's a promise.

I'm doing loads of debates.

How many are there? I've just done you. I've just been interrogated by you for a long time. How much tougher can that be? Is there any experience more brutal and pummelling and tougher than that? I bet there isn't.

I'm doing loads of debates and I humbly submit, Sophy, there can be no more interrogational catechism more devastating than Sophy Ridge on Sunday. If anyone can get through Sophy Ridge on Sunday they deserve a medal in my view.