Nigga I agree with some shit in dis vid fuck racism
1:12 and I oop-
Your German is rather good ^^.  Also, dear Nathalie, you are a beautiful, inspiring person. I am so glad you are around.
This is so brilliant that I just can't believe what I'm seeing. Am I dreaming??
I feel like the 'classical liberal' is imitating Dave Rubin.
Your portrayal of a likeable yet obviously sinister nazi is both horrifying and ridiculously attractive. Nice job.
All you doing is emotionally pandering to the left why don't you bring eric striker on or other white nationalist insted of this bullshit propaganda your argument basicly was "white nationalism is bad coz it's bad"
I'll i got from this is that fritz made the most sence
Thanks for your channel i wad going down the wrong road and im black
The way Sol feels is the exact same way most people feel about arguing about communism. The problem with Sol is that the education of the holocaust was done horribly. Instead of studying what the nazis though and WHY they thought it and really how it happened (thus exposing people to those ideas so we know how to refute them) it was just "Nazi's are murderers. Don't be racist." The problem with education about communism was even worse unless because you don't see the videos from back then and one week a year from jr high on wasn't dedicated to it in school, so most of us don't get such a bone-chilling, disgusted feeling from it the way we do about Nazis. The hammer and sickle should be just as disturbing as the swastika, yet we have kids running around in che guevara shrits like little nazis.
Kkkkkkkkkkkkkll
Perdi os lados
Imma take fritz side on this one
This is the best channel ever
Soooo good. You're just what YouTube needs. I wanna go clubbing with you, Contra
This is very weird to watch when you understand everything (English and German, I‘m from Germany)
fritz won the debate 😳
Oh wow, You’ve just debated a human straw man. You’re real special kid. You’re real fucking special.
Ricky T is my favorite contrapoints character
It's farts will still smell like male farts, I still remain disgusted.
"You have a moment to talk about the need to secure a future for our people?"  "Are you a Nazi?" Is it just me or is this just blatant retardation
Invite Mike Enoch or Eric Striker on!!
all i got from the clip was that the alt-right made the best points. was the edgy music and lighting supposed to change my mind? why do sjws think they should be arbiters of info and they must control the context of it as we cannot be trusted? also the only bad faith tricks i see is from sjws. look at reddit. i have seen truth die in a thousand downvotes, seen subreddits taken over by sjws sneaking into mod positions.
he is arguing with himself because he knows that if he invites a person who genuinely stands opposite to him, he's gonna get his ass handed to him on a silver platter   that's just pathetic
>debating alt right >arguing with himself ye pretty much sums up how you debate all the time, in your head with straw man
Nazis push the Jewish conspiracy to hide the Nazi conspiracy
The truly dangerous and spooky ones are the ones like "Fritz" that use a quiet seemingly logical attack, like prager u a biased alt right group that uses partial truths and misstatements.
Thanks for illustrating the falsehoods, propaganda and twisted comments are pushed on us.
Ur hot dressed as a dude
the Jackie and Saul costumes are so thrown together, but who cares, everyone's watching Freya! [i only noticed Saul's blue jeans and suit jacket combo today]
Wait, who was I supposed to side with?
Sad, scary. Pretty much why we are doomed. Captures the path America is on. Hope we can somehow avoid the end result,  but starting to seem less likely.
Debating a dude who thinks he's a woman . . .
Fritz is kinda sexy
This one ionesco's play changed my life around in college days. I have found myself in this position so many times never knowing how I could have dealt with it better. But I guess not arguments are to be won or convert others. Some arguments are meant to just be that way.. suspended in mid air.. they don't let you escape the easy way.. which is a purpose to go on living, learning, listening more carefully
if you take out the jew this is literally dave rubens talk show. only there needs to be more nods and "Hmm" as if all thoughts should have the same merit.
I have trouble understanding you. You are obviously smart and talented. And this is a very good rendition of the arguments from both sides. What is weird is you are left wing, yet you play a more convincing alt right character and centrist than leftist one. The left character was the one with no arguments, and at the end you say yourself "what could I have said?" Obviously just calling everyone a nazi won't work. I don't understand how you can have such a good understanding of both sides of the question, and yet in the end side with the one that can't present any thoughtful arguments on the subjects? I came here for a contrarian viewpoint on the question, and honestly I didn't get one. In the end this was nothing but a very well executed and acted play repeating the same leftist tropes we are used to hearing. So, is there any other argument against the centrist guy in the play, other than if you want to live with your own values in your own country, youre a nazi that wants to kill millions of people? So mostly everyone outside of the West is a nazi? Colonialism is geat? Maybe you should reflect on your last sentence, "what should I have said?" and actually come up with something thought provoking instead of just going through the same old tropes with an added layer of theatrical gloss, however well done it was. I would really like to find an intelligent argument from the other side and would hope you could be that answer, but you just seem like a smarter gaslighter and deceiver than the common SJW. Kudos for the jokes and acting anyway.
can someone tell me of some good left wing youtube channels?
It's the centrists who were possessed by evil this whole time
First off, how is your german so amazing? <3 Second, feels bad that we, our accent, names etc are still used as the prime stereotype for Neo-Nazis even though they now exist, especially in this form, all around the world but hey, I guess thats our legacy. Thanks for the video, its super enjoyable and creepily well executed.
a masterpiece
this tranny seems to sing "hava nagila" a little too well :thinking: :thinking:
As a fascist alt righter this was actually hilarious
As a German, I live for every german word she says
First time Im supporting the nazis
So except for the rhino head, I was able to follow this fairly well  Which begs the question.... what’s with the rhino mask? Am I missing something?
>she
ContraPoints is ethnic Kekistani. Praise Kek.
So what did the rhino mask symbolise???... That Jackie J was being indoctrinated???... If it was that then a sheep mask would've been more appropriate and obvious
I found your channel totally randomly, by clicking on "The Aesthetics". I was fascinated. I'm currently marathoning your videos starting by the oldest, and I have to say, I am completely fascinated by you no matter how you look (I am weirdly aroused by both Saul and the nazi dominatrix in this video) and no matter the technical means of the videos, because you are such a brilliant mind and you seem to be such a good and independent person. I am happy that you feel much more confident now. Thank you for your channel.
PLEASEEEEE bring back the live comments feed for freedom report vids!
OH MY GOD THE RHINOCEROS REFERENCES
Is Jackie Jackson a parody of Dave Rubin?!
God i fuckin love her. Breadtube and AOC for Jesus 2020
Something about how this vid came together is so perfect. One of my favs
The moral of the story is, the reality is very bitter...  because the nationalists are actually right all along.
I keep coming back to this video. It's so perfect. And terrible.
Infinite Jest on the bookshelf - great read and great main characters.
This sounds like a really complex way of justifying why perceived 'nazis' beat you in a debate.
That rhino was creepy especially when considering how real this actually is
Does anyone know what the Rhino symbolizes?
This made me laugh so hard. LOVED the comments
You know for a moment I actually forgot ContraPoints was actually acting different personas because of how frighteningly accurate this video is of current political discourse. Outstanding commentary.
It's so weird hearing Natalie refering to herself as male.
EYRCREF_NJNXR_RGREANY_QNLYVTVG_FUVARF
Jackie didn’t to her background research, took Frit’z bait. Google “Stormfront”.   Saul didn’t prepare how to respond in a persuasive way to Fritz‘s replies. Fritz seemed in completely control. Jackie was too uninformed to steer the debate in an incisive way, and Saul was too flustered to offer the same smug calm replies as Fritz.   When Jackie didn’t even comment on Fritz’ “quoting the front page of Stormfront”*, and Saul failed to muster the focus to use that against Fritz, it was clear that neither person was anticipating / preparing for suspect talking points. Clearly we need to watch ALL sides carefully, not remain neutral and uninformed, or passionately blind.
this is psychologically disturbing, not only for the creepy end but getting angry at the nazi but liking saul and knowing it's the same person lol
Damn this episode of the Rubin report episode was really weird
Why is this video kinda...too realistic...almost as if...history repeats itself but modernised...
this is like a fever dream of my college years...
Wow, I really cannot imagine Dave Rubin being suckered in by neo-nazi propaganda. In a debate between Ben Shapiro and Richard Spencer, Dave would certainly side with Ben.
actually, after moving to Asia, and constantly hearing about the low birth rates shoved down our ears (maybe my Korean colleagues just want the choice of being able to choose to have kids or not and not have it forced upon them, ok!), a lot of us foreigner were like "well, why don't they have more immigrants being allowed in these countries, with an easier path to citizenship?" I live in an area (in east Asia) with quite a lot of foreigners from other parts of Asia, many of my students have mothers that are foreigners from other parts of Asia. But unless a person has blood from that culture (I'm really speaking about Korea and Japan), but they are constantly put down. And the longer we're here, the more we realize, "Man!!! I think these people might be more racist than our weirdos back home". Of course it's not so simple as that. The younger generation is quite a bit more accepting of foreigners of all walks of life and even immigrants, but the younger generations travel a bit more and went to university with a lot of foreigners. But the younger generation aren't in power, and there's still a quite a bit of people in power in those countries are terrified of their culture and language being wiped out because of immigration. God!!! It's so not even true. The immigrants I know here are almost fully integrated into the society here, they all speak the local language and understand the local customs, so much better than me.
I wonder if Dave Rubin has seen this video--what am I saying? Of course he hasn't.
Well why DONT we expect Asian countries to take in the refugees? Well why is every race allowed to be proud but not whity? Well why is that refugees get specifically aimed at europe? You yourself ask all these questions but dont answer them you just scream "nazi"... If you cant give an answer then it wont matter how much you dress up and scream nazi... you still have given no answer so you are just a idiot and fraud.
Sure try trivialize the alternative perspective. Alinksy, no?   The staged format is trite making ContraPoints' inanity clear.
‘What could I have said to change their minds?’ Anything but that shocked pearl-clutching, for one. Something witty, something incisive, something genuinely angry. It really annoys me to see just how passive and S H O C K E D Saul’s character is, rather than trying to do _anything_ to convince people still on the fence.
Fritz is 100% right!
Wait, what is the point of the Rhino mask?  Edit: Also the bit at the end?
sad but true. my takeaway is rational debate is no longer possible. stronger measures must be employed.
sorry about your bum ?
A Rhino mask huh ? Is that a reference to "Rhinoceros" the play from Ionesco ? EDit: NEVERMIND ! I just didn"t get to the end of the video yet...
wtf I'm deradicalized now
You had the chance to refute and disprove the ideas in an environment that you had total control of and all you could say was "why should I have to?" If your appeal to history stands sufficient on it's own then many Left wing ideas are equally invalid, as your opponent can simply point to Stalin and say "look what happened that other time!" Also bear in mind that most of these people aren't such clear cut "Nazis."   Refute their rhetoric. "I shouldn't have to" just doesn't cut it, because whether you should or shouldn't, you do. Burying your head in the sand and trying to pretend they don't exist isn't going to make them go away. It would also give you a chance to sell your own ideas.
fyrrcref njnxr rgreany qnlyvtug fuvarf   sleepers awake eternal daylight shines
Brilliant!!!!!!!!!!!!
love this channel
Holy shit I think I'm a Nazi .
I hope you all will become Muslim
Is this a shot at Rave Dubin?
I KNEW if felt a disturbance in the Absurdest Drama...what's next, Rosecrantz and Guulderstein due for an drops by?
This was dope
Have fun at camp
what I hate most about altright debate style is that when you pin them on a lie and ask them to defend their point, they just move to the next argument. They rarely actually defend their points they just vomit them out. it takes less time to show a false data than to debunk it, whitch gives the one lying an advantige.
THATS A GODZILLA ROAR
I really liked the Jewish guy. I hope this isn't rude, but you look fucking cool as a man.
This video is accurate because *cucks* like you can't debate us and instead use violence and censorship to get to the top. 😉
😀😀😀😀
““I want to understand where people are coming from,” she says. “I don’t just want to nail my mind shut and say whoever disagrees is coming from some inexplicable evil.“” and that’s why you actually debated somebody who you deemed “Alt—Right” in the video instead of literally PLAYING THE FUCKING ROLE A A STRAWMAN and......................................................literally debating you in a fucking costume playing the most caricatured, stereotyped fucking version of a fucking conservative that you could possibly fucking play.........................................................................................................I don’t even fucking have any smartass things to say at this fucking point, you’re just a fucking goddamned fucking hypocrite.
Ironically Fritz is right. You did not debunked our point you show what are points are, even we are nazis that doesn't mean this points are incorrect but nice try. You just use Nazi because it sounds bad to the neutral audience and you only care about taking the neutral audience to your side not honest debate.
absolutely love this video: i was baffled when i saw the rhinoceros in 4.25 which i strongly assume to be a reference to inesco's rhinocéros.
Some of the most compelling satirical content on youtube frankly. You are hacking alt right brains in this piece.
Its like satire that isnt funny but instead is medicine
You make the most medicinal YouTube videos i love iiiitt
I love you so much wtf
is the one on the left jordan peterson?
The (((federal reserve))) for the last 30 years.  Wooden doors.  This is actually very good makes me want to check out this Stormfront thing you were talking about.
What play was this based on?
This is a straw man from the get go... The premise being you are arguing with Nazis.. when you aren't... Just people with different views to yours that you find to difficult to debate with... I bet 90% of the votes came before even the video started...
Lauren Chen and Dave Rubin...
What views are worthy of being heard? Oi vey
This makes leftists look like idiots.
Oh my god jackie dismissed the preferred pronouns of the nazi but refused to call her a nazi only on the base that she doesn't identify as one
I know that you’re a woman now but for what it’s worth I’d definitely pound you so hard as a guy.
Tfw Contra Points proves why the Alt Right is right. You can't win the debate with them so demamd censorship and scream nazi   Great job stupid
This is terrifying.
My GOD.........
Anybody wanna dunk on these fascists? https://m.facebook.com/story.php?story_fbid=2547110625308959&id=161584927194886
As a German, I love this! So funny
Watching again I just noticed Jackie's two different responses   Fritz: "I prefer Sie pronouns" Jackie: "Don't force your made up pronouns down my throat you fascist snowflake."    Fritz: "I prefer not to use the historical term, Jewish Question." Jackie: "I respect your preference."
Watching in 2019, ContraPoints was critiquing Dave Rubin b4 it became mainstream to do so! Hilarious & amazing video!
"Just because there are two sides to an argument doesn't mean they're equally deserving of an audience."
What you're doing is very cathartic
It’s Wednesday  It’s Wednesday  It’s Wednesday  It’s Wednesday....
Brilliant and at the same time chilling. Your videos are incredible Natalie
This is the contra video I quote the most
HELP, THE VIOLENT THIRD WAVE CULTURAL MARXISTS ARE COMING TO TAKE OUR CUCUMBERS AWAY!
If you have a decent education of actual history with the Holocaust, and I realize that's kinda broadly defined, and you watch a few documentaries/films about art during the time -- The Rape of Europa and Never Look Away, especially -- it's fairly obvious that the Nazis had some repressed-jealousy issues. That is, not all the Nazis were Philistines or whatever; they did read books and have sophisticated opinions, which makes it very stupid to dismiss anything they did as a coincidence. What they did was extremely intelligible; they just grabbed whatever they decided was theirs and worth grabbing, and assisted anyone who disagreed with them with getting killed. If only for their shit-planning, lack of a conscience, lack of patience,  and lack of a God they were just so sure was protecting them, those despicable cunts might've had something.   I'd like to think those who are in charge of public education are moving in some sort of direction where Kevin Powers and Brian Turner are being taught in a classroom. If they're not already....
Amazing commentary on today's society
I dig the Argentoesque hues.
I love this 😍 burn to Dave! Wonderful work.
Very Hotline Miami 🐴🐔🦉
I came back to watch this, it is hysterical.  Edited to add: is that gold mask in the back a reference to Sargon of Akkad?
i've pissed myself at least three times watching this and i'm only halfway through
I just came here to say that my classmate and I presented this video as an introduction in our seminar about John Rawls'  book: Political Liberalism. It was really useful! It's frankly astonishing how this video fits to the political discussion that Rawls' proposed in his book :-)
i feel like the "Freedom Report" at the very beginning of this video is underrated — stereotypical Classy Intro Template. idk who else appreciated that lol
Did you study German? Because frankly it's very good.
i love the german
Perfect!
David rubin is that you?
I love her german! 😅😂 German here!
Fritz unironically makes a lot of great points
My dear ContraPoints - I love this vid!  Trouble is,  in this day of internet-leveraged self-brainwashing, I dont think the Socratic method so cleverly used in this vid works anymore.  And so, to most dumb fascists, it ends up being a pro-fascist vid....
Rhino sierra tango, a lamp post is going to auction of its SOUL to get through this night. Inanimate object souls BURN BRIGHT DON"T THEY, KLAUSS? TELL ME SISTER YOU LIKE THAT? <darkness> curtain.
Lmao, “Godwin’s Law”. You know someone has been deep in those message boards when they mention Godwin’s Law.
this was Dave Rubin's interview of Stefan Molyneux exactly like to a t...
Actually, I prefer the "sie" pronoun. I just lost it.
i'm a big lesbo 4 saul
The best thing about this video is that it's actually showing us how the jew lives in his own world without any rational argument who freaks out when people question their narrative. Thanks for the accidental propaganda, haha.
*HALLO LEUTE*
I don't debate things that are out to get you. I beat them up or run the fu*k away. And I'm a scientist
Soooo, Contra- You on RedTube yet?
ContraPoints drops the Red Pill on the alt-right.
Jesus, the rhino shit was actually creepy as hell
When an anti-nazi video ends up making the nazi look smarter. "Muh shoah" isn't a counter-argument.
pretty accurate
Not every german is a nazi
Not every german is a nazi
is natalie jewish?
May our grandparents forgive us.
Dont associate the March "Unter dem Doppeladler" with nazis. It's such a lovely tune created before Nazi Germany
For anyone who's interested, the Ouija board message at the end was "FYRRCREF NJNXR RGREANY QNLYVTUG FUVARF" which decodes using a Vigenère cypher with the codeword "nnnnnn" into "SLEEPERS AWAKE ETERNAL DAYLIGHT SHINES" Spoopy.
Damn you! I just found your channel and now I can’t stop watching, nodding, giggling and learning. I have stuff to do! I should go back to my live of ... work, studies and learning without all that nodding and giggling.
Brilliant...really slick. Well done. As in all your best work, leaves a person challenged, and a little bit creeped...
This was a good video
Moral of the story: you're either a pro-censorship leftist, a Nazi sympathizer, or a Nazi.
*Neo-Liberalism Intensifies*
Nobody ever asks "Why were the jews prosecuted for soo long?", I'm sure its because they are very innocent in every possible way.I bet it has nothing to do with their belief in their "god-given" superiority above all other races and religion (source:Talmud).It's definitely not because they have a tendency to spread degeneracy in order to collapse different societies from within. It most certainly isn't because of the fact that their end goal is ruling this world and all of the people in it and establishing a global theocracy (Noahide laws,Source:Talmud).I'm surprised that nobody finds it even a little bit suspicious that there are currently laws being established that forbid you from questioning Israel and its legitimacy.Who knows,maybe i'm just some alt-right,Trump supporting fascist (Trump is a Chabad puppet,just like Vladimir Putin.The Rockefellers pulled him out of bankruptcy so now he is repaying them.)?     The left are just as blind as the right (and Alt-right).You are all complete fucking idiots,trapped in your echo-chambers and degeneracy.I hope you people have more luck than Intelligence otherwise you won't survive the next decade.
I mean, I see the point this video is making, but I do believe debunking and pointing things out and discussing can work. Isn't ContraPoints a good example of that?
Hello, leute... Are you a nazi? -Nein, NEIN!
'what could I have done to change their mind' - This is exactly the issue the left has! Intersectionality IS identitarianism, so the basic philosophical arguments that refute the alt-right (i.e individualism) are absent. This is why liberals are far better at combatting them, but you create your own propaganda discrediting us, just because we are out there on the front lines actually confronting them.
I love this so much. <3
Very well done and thought provoking. To be honest I’m not sure where I stand on this issue since I’d probably call myself a centrist nowadays, I do like to believe in free debate and free speech but I see the point about letting people abuse platforms. I think one of the problems is trust has broken down and there does seem to me to be this conflation among leftists of conservatism and fascism and they are just not the same in my opinion, I personally think that immigration should be balanced and that living in this country is a privilege not a right, i think the issue is (obviously) people on the left and the right care about different things with nationalism and tradition being somewhere between important and sacred to those on the right depending on their position whereas liberals (generally) don’t believe in or value nationalism...also I think if you start down the rabbit hole of assuming people are closer nazis it leads to a situation where by everyone to the right of Bernie sanders can be made to look like Mussolini, this would sorely limit freedom of speech and lead to a situation whereby the repression of conservatism actually does lead to fascism. But again letting someone like tommy Robinson on question time would be a big mistake.
This was incredibly well done.
Tfw this video is realistic because the all the Jew can do is complain about them being a Nazi and brining up the Holocaust
It's Okay To Be White.
I still get baffled about your German pronunciation. It's really good 😊
6:41 EXACTLY, why is the middle ground fallacy so frequently bought into???
0:56 pentagram is in SATANIC POSITION then flips it over for the wide angle in 0:59 wtf devil worshiper much
This video is brilliant. Without misrepresenting anything, it very clearly demonstrates how the depicted sense of outraged disbelief and horror in the face of "nazi" arguments seems so inherently natural and logical, but only to leftists. At the same time, the arguments that the nazi person presents do objectively make sense to normies, as the video clearly shows. Leftists, however, live in a world where the idea that a "nazi" may say something sensible is ludicrous and would rather shake their heads in disbelief and outrage than muster any kind of actual debate. That's why only leftists "get" this video, while it comes across as markedly pro-"nazi" to everyone else. The comments here prove this.
I like this guy-gal. "The answer is always in the middle thinking," is a type of logical fallacy. I also enjoy that the gender studies gal-guy left the room as quickly as possible.
I find this rhino frankly astonishing! How am I supposed to sleep tonight?!
What's the takeaway? The concerns of conservatives are a slippery slope to nazism? Give any airtime to nazis, or people called nazis, and they'll convert more people to nazism?
@AdolphHitler: there's nothing wrong with asking questions
Fritz's Clockwork Orange grin is way too familiar. 10/10 accuracy.
Did the rhino make a dinosaur noise?
It's not even a satire! That was how my last friday family dinner went! I was Saul, my brother Fritz and my father, uncle and cousin Jackies! It horrifies me how he was holding the same discourse about jewish conspiracies...
dave rubin left the chat
what does the rhino head represent?
Am I dumb or is the pantacle being flipped all the time?
Well why DONT we expect Asian countries to take in the refugees?
This is what I feel like at the young conservatives club at my school.   I would go to see what they think and I put myself in a depression over it. I don't go anymore.
The alt right is a very very small group that 99 percent of Republicans and conservatives do not care for. It's funny people label mainstream conservatives alt right like Ben Shapiro who is a Jewish conservative that hates the alt right. I bet you think Candace Owens is alt right.
It's ridiculous that nazis, who pretend to support a homeland for all peoples, declare "white pride WORLD WIDE".
I cringed so bad at Fritz singing hava nagila ughhh.
A fantastic one woman show, with ContraPoint playing 4 different characters (counting the student who walks in).  Witty dialogue, a la Oscar Wilde: 'I’m simply an alternative pan european ethno nationalist identarian with some socialist leanings' ; 'Actually I prefer the Sie pronoun' ; 'How do you know if she’s a nazi if she doesn’t identify as one?' ; 'Securing a future for white children' ; 'I do not see how I can have an open and honest dialogue with someone who denies my right to exist ' ; 'You’re coming across as very emotional right now'. The allusion to Eugene Ionesco's Rhinoceros shows this is very serious though... and depressing. @ContraPoint, I love Saul and his catogan, he is really very sexy! Also, your German is very good!
This is a perfect video. The nazi makes a lot of valid points, the jew doesn't bother doing anything but call him a nazi, and the centrist agrees with him because he just is more convincing. It's like contrapoints subconsciously knows the nazi is correct but he is too stuck in his own leftist ideology so he has to make videos like this.
i stil belive that trying to supress these kind of conspiriancys is just fueling them.
Danke für die deutsche übung!
I enjoyed the Rhinocéros by Ionesco reference,
Hello, Can someone please help me? I'm confused I found myself agreeing with what the Nazi and the other character said. I don't want to be a racist nor a Nazi and honestly don't believe that I am. Can someone be willing to just talk with me about this?
*uncomfortoble german silence*
This is disturbingly accurate.
notice how at 3:30 the supposed " nazi" asks a totally valid and legit question and it ( once again) never actually gets addressed. even in this parody video, the only strategy is to immediately call the asker a nazi
I get the feeling that this video is meant to portray these people as evil and fascist, but the sweet irony is that what they're saying is actually correct
Very interesting to see the world through your eyes. Thanks for sharing
Woah this was really cool
I love how you pretend to be not two but three females in this video! Awesome acting.
4:27 nice Eugene Ionesco reference! 9:57 oh  🤣
Because you lack the courage to actually debate the alt right.
Brilliantly done 👏👏👏
this is gold
do you also tell communists that they are no allowed to exist? as a jew living in israel nazis area allowed to speak too, the only thing no one is allowed to do is call for violence
Natalie ((((WYNN))))
I'm just a classical liberal.
It's funny how you name all these facts and legitimate criticisms and never proceed to actually disprove them! Diversity HAS NOT worked, it DOES NOT work and it never WILL WORK! You never actually answered the question WHY only white countries aren't allowed to be homogenous! How about answering this question instead of stumbling around the answer!? If the centrist characters is so easily convinced by Fritz, maybe that's because he actually isn't a pure evil monster who wants to see the world burn, but an actual decent human being with fears and troubles you won't ever understand! Maybe the centrist character is convinced so easily because he actually has some fucking valid points!!!
What the fuck is wrong with wanting to secure a future for white children!?
Nice M'aiq the Liar meme
DEBATE ERIC STRIKER
I think it was 3 arrows but I may be wrong, who made the point that 'Free speech' does not allow a person to yell fire in a theater, or slander another human being, or threaten someone's life, or publish plans to murder the President of the United States and following that logic Holocaust denial slanders a group of people and can lead to hate crimes more threatening than yelling 'fire' in a theater.  So yes, Holocaust denial can be controlled, there's nothing inherently 'evil' about that any more than protecting someone from slander.
best video
Man this really hits hard, since I had that EXACT moment happen when watching a debate about the identitarians on Austrian Television in our Ethics class. While watching I kinda expected my classmates to point out the obvious bait of Martin Söllner but turns out all they cared about was how the debate was held rather than the arguments presented and my Prof didn't exactly help by trying to remain centrist on that issue rather than pointing out the obvious lies. So here I was defending a guy who got rightfully mad about having to debate a Nazi on wether or not he was a Nazi while my classmates just say "Well Martin can't be wrong, he manages to keep composure throughout the interview even though his opponent just throws out slurs at him. I think if the Left was so obviously right like you said he wouldn't have to just call him Nazi all the time, right?".  I highly recommend you watch it for yourself, even though it's half an hour of Austrians debating with only german subtitles maybe you can take something away by their gestures and body language.  https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B50WlZ-EyJY
"Is no one going to address that feminist rando who walked in?" 😅 That was some mindful writing.
This is sooo fucking perfectly done.
This was so well done I couldn't even believe what I was seeing! The nuance and wit involved in making a video like this is amazing!
So like... how does the left argue against this? Did I miss the point of the video or something because surely there's ways to argue against this crap even if they dress it up in language of inequality.
"Sleepers awake, eternal daylight shines"
Didn't Walt Disney hate Jews?
So your implied but unspoken argument is basically that because there are actual Nazis saying these things, if anyone takes these things seriously, suddenly the Nazis will be magically powerful again because they'll convince all the white people to agree with them. Do you actually, genuinely think that acknowledging the existing oppression against white men in the West will suddenly radicalize enough angry young white men to kill millions of people? Or ANY people? Let alone GENOCIDE which is what you seem to be implying will happen?   Okay. I argue that acknowledging black oppression in America will give power to all the "evil ones" who actually want to start a revolution and kill all the white people. Oh wait but that hasn't happened yet. AND IT NEVER WILL HAPPEN. BECAUSE THIS KIND OF THING DOESN'T HAPPEN in modern day America.   But why did it happen in Germany? Because Germany was post-WWI and extremely bitter about even basic living conditions, and they Hitler  DISGUSTING amount of power, and Hitler was a man you could SHOW to be EXTREMELY HATEFUL.   And why won't it happen in America? Because we're a spoiled-ass country with all the food we could ever want, we're not in the immediate aftermath of any massive world war conflict except a cultural one, and even then you can just go on Youtube or some shit to immediately feel better. Even the poverty stricken in our country have access to a whole bunch of things through welfare that many people in third-world countries DREAM of having, and LITERALLY the only hatred brewing in the hearts of young white men is SEXUAL FRUSTRATION BROUGHT ABOUT BY YOUR TOXIC LGBT CULTURE. And don't even tell me it's not toxic, because I have countless personal accounts of people being intentionally toxic to me just because I'm a straight white male.
Sidenote, but you deserve a little bit of praise for the effort - your German pronounciation is surprisingly good. You're actually doing a little better a Bulgarian friend of mine... and she's been living here in Vienna for 11 years. :)
Gender dysphoria
The music was totally wrong 0:35 that was under the doppeleagle a march which got his name from the flag of the old monarchy of austria and has nothing to do with nazis
Even though I don’t fully think this is the case , it’s quite funny :3
how is it contra points looks more manly dressed as a woman.
I love the Ionesco Rhinos reference:)) my favorite theatre piece
sie spricht ganz fließendes Deutsch
Love this video! And fuck nazi's. Greetings from the netherlands.
So i guess the point is that ContraPoints doesn't actually want to make counterarguments to any of the claims being made.
Can someone please send this to CNN?
I agree with Fritz...err..uh...no, I agree with the white lady...wait...no....am I watching Fox news?
This is basically Twitter now.
BRING MUSLIMS FOR THIS UGLY BITCHES
“Who hasn’t dressed up ironically as a nazi once or twice” honestly that should be the biggest red flag because unless it’s for a theatrical production or you’re cast as a nazi in a movie NO ONE DOES THAT IN THEIR FREE TIME. How is that not more concerning!?
i want to swallow jackies panties whole
God damn! I watched this on the train and tried sooo hard not to laugh that I ended up with a cheesy demented grin 🤭
This video hits home far too much...
you are already a national treasure. Keep fighting this -with art- as you have. I envy you.
award winning creativity
I love your content! Found it by a former alt right follower that actually got out of the alt right following through the help of your content. Keep up the great work. Much love from me and so many others out there.
I highly recommend viewers look up the play ContraPoints is referencing, “Rhinoceros.” She captured the themes and message brilliantly. And yes, it is absolutely timely.
I concur with @soulcheese1. What red-blooded free-speech warrior WOULDN’T relish the opportunity to fucik jakies face?
Did anyone actually solve the enigma
you are the best
The Alt-Right daddy are becoming calculated.  .3.
Brilliant interpretation of this play. Read it about 15 yrs ago , but didn't see it like this ! Thanx
Saul Goode as my Jewish friends say !
your German pronunciation is so good!
Saul, may I treat you to coffee?
Can you make a video of your take on Venezuela please?
I hope everyone else gets the Rhinoceros reference
i thought salzman was peterson at first, you had me pretty confused there
The smiling and smirking of the nazi is spot on.
I need to get the phrase "leftists are getting violent because their lives are threatened by fascist ideologies" tattooed on my brain so I can remember it the next time some trump-loving relative regurgitates a Fox News segment about the violent left.
Why is the Nazi the most fun person here
As someone who is ex-alt-right and Jewish, I can't tell you enough how realistic those comments were!
I discovered your channel through your interview with David Parkman. I just picked the first vid by chance. Awesome!!
You know i didn't react to the rhinoceros... I didn't think it was weird until I saw Saul's reaction to it. Beautiful.
my names saul and i kept spacing out and getting spooked
First, why didn't I find this channel last year.  Second, this plays out all over internet, all the time.
Wow.
The cipher at the end is  ``` fyrrcref njnxr rgreany qnlyvtug fuvarf ``` Which is ROT13 for ``` SLEEPERS AWAKE ETERNAL DAYLIGHT SHINES ```  Which may be a reference to Ephesians 5:14
THIS SHIT ISNT FUNNY AT ALL IM ON LIKE MY 5th VIDEO ON THIS CHANNEL AND I HAVENT LAUGHED ONCE I FEEL BAD BUT ITS JUST NOT FUNNY AT ALL
can someone explain why a jewish person is looking at a white woman and seeing rhino
This video sums it up nicely. Jews DO control the world and work to undermine the white race, but calling it out is anti Semitic and therefore unthinkable to the point of being mind blowing. Jew rallied leftists are beating up people in the streets and clamping down on free speech because they feel threatened... by the people that they are trying to exterminate. Just like the Palestinians. Jews steal their country and then accuse them of being the aggressor. In Palestine if you resist being exterminated you are a sub human terrorist. In the west you are a Nazi.
That wink is so hot though
Jackie Jackson reminds me too much of how I used to think.  I was raised a privileged able-bodied middle-class cis-het white Christian American male.  At one point in my childhood, I remember thinking that libertarianism was "the best of both worlds".  I remember thinking about how unfair affirmative action was to white people.  I remember enjoying laughing at racist jokes.  "Of course _I'M_ not racist!  It's just that racism is so _stupid_ and _absurd_ it's *_funny!  HA! HA!_*  I'm just so glad that _nothing_ is off-limits for the _healing_ power of _humor!"_  I eventually lost my Christian faith, and when I turned to atheism, OH BOY were there plenty of _""""awesome""""_ atheist YouTube channels in which for me to find camaraderie!  Y'all know the ones I mean. ;)  I remember believing so completely in the power of rational debate, seeing absolutely no problem with the worst ideas having whatever platform they wanted because "obviously, that'll just help expose how silly and _wrong_ they are!"  In retrospect, I can see how sheltered and naïve I was.  I was completely unaware of how things _really_ worked and the problems that marginalized people _really_ faced.  Saul's difficulty debating against Fritz reminds me of how confounded some good scientists feel when they try to educate the public on a controversial, politicized issue that is not at all controversial from a scientific standpoint (e.g. global climate change, vaccines, et cetera).  Some of these scientists keep trying to _educate_ and to _inform,_ trying to _convince_ people using the same techniques that they would use with one another, operating on the false presumption that their audience thinks the way they do and is motivated to reach true conclusions in the same way that the ideal scientist is.  We might love to imagine that we live in a world where reasoned, rational debate resolves all disputes and moves humanity forward collectively.  Unfortunately, that is an idealistic fantasy.  If we really want to make progress, we have to open our eyes to the reality of not just what is true that we want to convey, but also what is actually _effective_ at _conveying_ that truth, and when convincing some people of the truth fails, what is necessary to actually enforce what needs to happen.  We need _some_ idealism to strive for what _ought_ to be, but we have to come down to _realism_ in order to get busy with what _works._
This is not an argument. the "Nazi" talk about migrants was pretty reasonable. The whole video is "ignoratio elenchi", a fight with a straw man. simple mimicry is not an argument in dispute.  This is demagogy and sophistry peculiar to leftists.
God, I would've left that reporter once they said that they were a classical liberal.
4:12 nice James and the Giant Peach reference
God just reading the live chat is giving me shell shock
The jewish character reminds me to Jordan Peterson.
Thank you for that hit of asmr at the end
“All warfare is based on deception”  -Tsun Tzu
Magnifique! Brava! 🌹🌸💐🌈🤩☮️❤️ When doing « Fritz » were you channeling Marine LePen?  (Btw: Serge Gainsbourg mural behind me) 🇫🇷
this is awesome!
“I find this frankly astonishing...”
This is actually entertaining and well made, but the actual information is just such bull shit. Lol.
Can anyone translate the german part?
The great thing about this video is that it portrays these people in the sort of brutal honesty that actually even reminds me of Der Untergang. Everything they say a person of that position would've actually said, and they maintain just enough semblance of rationality and reality to make the silliness of any of their points feel as uncanny as possible and as disturbing as possible.
Can someone explain the Rhino mask?
Your German...is so good?! Needless to say I like all your videos. Greetings from Austria!
*whispers* 30 million people were killed just putting that out there.
Wow!
@Contrapoints admit you totally took advantage of the opportunity to look sexy in a nazi outfit here ;)
I’m giggling like a schoolgirl and I’m only 2:06 in. Fun times. Learning times. Thank you for your discourse lol.
Wow great production!
"My problem isn't with any individual jew, it is with international jewery." This was lifted verbatim from The Golden One. It is unreal.
I disagree with you in so many points, but your videos are exceptional - both on technical level, and reaserch. You have my sub.
FYRRCREF NJNXR RGREANY QNLYVTUG FUVARF
I don't get the rhino head? Must be a simple miss ...
nice rhinceros reference
Does anybody know what the end means, I’m certain everything in the shot has meaning.  Tell me everything!
As a German, suddenly hearing (and reading) my language so correctly in an English video kind of messed with me, lol.
Great satire piece, but I do believe everyone has the right to a platform, regardless of how bad their ideas may be.
Keep up the great work. Entertaining and extremely accurate and reflective of today's society. Keep up the great work
Poor RickyT :(
seeing contra playing man in suit is messing with my brain
Oh i love that smirk on Fritz's face!
The fake comment section was so fucking dead on 😂😂😂😂😂
JUST REALIZED WHERE I RECOGNIZE ABIGAIL COCKBAIN'S VOICE.. SHE'S LUMPY SPACE PRINCESS!!
This just became one of my new favorite YouTube channels
Natalies German is actually pretty good considering how many Americans pronounce German Words .
The subtle/not subtle  anti semitism at the beginning.  Then it comes full circle when jackie, the moderate,  preaches "i for one, don't want my country overrun by 3rd world primitives"
I define myself liberal but I strongly disagree with your liberal version???
for anyone else curious: the ouija board message at the end spells out "fyrrcref njnxr rgreany qnlyvtug fuvarf", which when decoded reads "sleepers awake eternal daylight shines".
White supremacists arguing with liberals are like if a lion flipped an antelope on its back and pinned it down with its claws about to slash open it’s belly while saying “Why can’t you just be rational about this? You antelopes can never have a civil discourse, you just keep getting triggered when you get flipped over and pinned down. Thrashing around and kicking isn’t civil, you need to be civil. I’m open to new ideas, but you’re being irrational. Typical emotional antelope cucks!”
Why's you German so good? This bothers me beyond reason.
You are fantastic!
Reminded me of this Spanish sketch in which the leader of a WW2 German concentration camp is offended because the interns call him "nazi": https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CXq86rOBq4k
frankly ASTONISHING
that was brilliant winona!
ContraPoints: the only YouTuber who doesn't make my blood boil. Contrapoints: the only SJW with any sense / sense of humour. I LOVE HER.
Oof those comments were painful to read but i didn't wanna miss RickyT getting increasingly desperate
This reminds me of the time when I was in a Skype group chat and the admin was this dude who called himself a “liberal” or centralist but really was far right af in practice. Hell he wasn’t even white (a Mexican) but acted like he supported white supremacy (also how the heck does someone say they support Bernie’s Sanders but vote trump, that’s like loading diesel into a minivan because at the end you realize that it DOESNT WORK). For years, this fake liberal, far right guy and his cronies were my demons in my head: the place I would think about whenever I think of BS. It’s racism without the label of racism. It’s judgement without morals or ethics. It’s a society without sympathy. In other terms, preaching fascism in a millennial tone and liberal terminologies. This is, what I call, RADICAL centralism. But ContraPoints here has just nuked those demons.  The nazi didn’t make fascism, fascism made the nazi. People need to see that
OMG! I found your channel two days ago, and I already totally in love with it!
Holy fuckles, CNN..... All these fuckers should def watch this?!! Yet they probably would give up!!  Truly ️ ☹️
suck a dick gay boy
Wow this was a masterpiece. It was sooo realistic in every way.
This video just makes the right look more appealing.
I didn't understand the Rino.  Is it symbolic of something?
What’s crazy is a couple years ago, on my birthday, this guy that I thought was my friend decided to pitch me every single one of these white supremacist apologetic arguments. It was shocking. To this day I haven’t spoken to him again, except for a few pleasantries in passing. It just shocked me to my core that a person who seemed perfectly normal, could hold these beliefs. “Why shouldn’t America be a white ethno state?” “ Bring for Trump is the new punk rock, “he said. He tried to convince me that MS 13 was proof that Mexico is trying to destabilize the United States or something. I’m pretty sure he referenced a great replacement. It’s nuts. And he is a super charismatic dude. 🤮
Fascism is not to be debated, it is to be *smashed*
I'm glad this video exists.  I think it's such a shame that so many young people don't have the historical knowledge nor the intuition to detect a nazi dog whistle when it's sounded. The fact that our society is giving these ideas the same treatment as other contemporary ideas is a sign of our greater tolerance of racist and fascist rhetoric. I only hope that this time in our society will come to pass as we become more prosperous and struggle less with issues regarding immigration and the wealth gap.  We need people like Contrapoints to demonstrate the hateful ideology that's being presented through innocent suggestions.
HDHDJJSJDJSJJDJDJ
Natalie, you're awesome. Please keep doing what you're doing. But can you tell me what "FYRRCREF NJNXR RGREANY QNLYVTUG FUVARF" means, so I can stop obsessively thinking about it?
This is unreal! Watched it twice!
This is a pretty retarded video
They'll be studying this after the next holocaust
I see why contrapoints doesn't actually debate the Alt Right.
I like how fem natalie looks in this jew costume, even when she was still presenting as a maine (how muddy waters says man. If we don't say it right she would have been triggered). :3
This is absolutely hilarious. I really appreciate how good your German is!!
I did not-see that coming
The only thing more harmful than allowing ideology like this to be spoken freely, is suppressing it. No matter what your justification is, no matter how good your intentions, when you silence your opponent, you lose the argument. That's the harsh reality, you can remain blissfully oblivious and continue feeding the right's persecution complex, or you can actually fucking debate them. I've done it, it's nowhere near as hard as ContraPoints makes it look here. When you're willing to silence the alt-right, your ideology is no better than theirs. They could eventually grow to take our freedoms - you're proposing doing it right now.
Dodongo hates smoke
Okay now I'm going to read Rhinoreces by Ionecso.
Contrapoints dressed as hitler? I did nazi that coming!      I’ll see myself out
Read the description. The right says they support free speech... They are obviously lying.
f r a n k l y   a s t o n i s h i n g
Of course not, Jackie, and thanks, once again, for asking.
I saw someone making rational arguments and another person refusing to refute them because they can’t.
W-what side of youtube am I on now?!
Joe Rogan...
"Fritz würde gern mit dir über die Judenfrage sprechen" "Fritz would like to discuss with you the Jew-Issue" ... oh god, that was hilariously dark and I´m not sure if I shouldve laughed about this as much as I did - probably not. Also I am german and your proncounciation is really good :D  Ich schaue deine Videos sehr gerne, aufgrund ihres lehrreichen und unterhaltenden Inhalts und weil du eine sehr attraktive Frau bist. Vorallem, wenn du redest ;-)
engajamento
Beware the centrist right.
There are literally comments like "liberals are just calling you racist when they can't make an argument" in Stefan Molyneux's comment section, who is obviously a racist person
This is why liberals will always side with fascists in the end.
It’s soooooo frustrating but the left should play the dirty right game in the best way so we can attract their Audience
Did I spot a *cough* subtle *cough* reference to Eugene Ionesco's "Rhinoceros" play?
Perfect
The rant that Jackie has when she turns into a rhino also says a lot. She goes on about how she's always felt as if she was taught that white people are evil and she didn't like that narrative. It shows  a very reductive understanding of racism. And this view is one that many liberals hold. Many people say that they're not racist, and then go on the same rant that Jackie does, showing that they don't understand what racism really is. So when a neo-nazi comes in, there are lots of liberals who can relate more with a neo-nazi than you can with an actual Jewish person calling out  nazism. Many people just describe themselves as liberal, yet only have a surface understanding of race, and this surface understanding is not only useless, it supports the alt-right.
It seems almost incredible that some people still deny ingroup preference, at least when it comes to Jews. I mean, this is some flat Earth level fact denialism.
Too real
ugggggh how did it become this ? :(
Sleepers awake eternal daylight shines...
It's easy to imagine the banks are corrupt. How many people think rich people are corrupt? I bet its a lot of people. Now explain why. In a group of ten people, how many people do you think will accept the bullshit explanation? Better. We can even have various forms of bullshit.  1. We can have bullshit which is subtly incorrect. 2. We can have bullshit which is very incorrect. 3. We can have bullshit which is ze jooz did it.  No, they didn't. But it is about explaining why people suffer. Ah fuck it the scapegoat could work.  I guess I expected number three to be the fringe group and not 50% Of the population. Or a bit over, anything even nearing fifty is nuts.
This video is an actual representation of how these conversations work. The calm and rationally spoken will always win a debate against someone who gets emotional and refuses to address the other person. You people need to rethink your tactics. There's a reason that any sort of revolution happens when an idea captures the hearts of the common folk.
You German a Pretty Good, and also the Video.
O just wanted to point out that the march you used at the very start is actually an Austro-Hungarian Imperial march called :“unter dem Doppeladler“ and doesn't really have anything to do with nazis. Although for that character to be entering with the wrong march does signal the alt-right's tendency to just equivocate all European cultures in their white nationalism. So mistake or intention, I like the detail
almost everything that is being said before the word "but" is a bunch of horsecrap.
“Fyrrcref njnxr rgreany qnlyvtug fuvarf” what does the Ouija message mean??
i genuinely love your stuff but you haven't dissuaded me anyway
"the rhinoceros"  is so perfectly apt
Dunno if it was intended, but this video highlights to me the need for grounded and ubiquitous arguments against facism on the left. If being a nazi isnt enough of a charge anymore, then we need to dig in deeper and twist. Go for the logistical absurdity, the unclear terms, target the details they wish to ommit. The faster they disengage from the dialogue, the faster you can be left alone with their  convertible audience.
Yeah, I'm still siding with Fritz here.
Is the rhino supposed to be an elephant that represents republicans?
I firmly believe that there's neither nobility nor purpose in trying to engage fascists philosophically. Their ideas lack intellectual merit, and many of them are bad-faith actors who are motivated purely by spite.  Swift and overwhelming violence is the proper and just response to fascists.
what play was is based on? xxx
I agreeee
god, this is so true, but it's so hard to watch because of that
Thank you! I've been trying to say the exact same thing, but I couldn't find a word. I will ask others to defer to this video in terms of how I feel.
0:36 Natalie speaking German is my #1 kink
8:32 The Golden Won!!! Dat reference. LOL
I love how you build so much german in the character of Fritz. also your pronunciations where quite good, please do that more often, greetings from Munich ;)
Haha this was great omg
Really cute with short hair.
I seriously want to understand how the flag with the pentagram keeps changing.
I don't buy that these so-called Center-Right YouTubers who "Jackie" represents are being manipulated by Nazis into parroting their talking points.  Look at their audiences (the video does a fantastic job of showing this), they're all aggressively dog whistling Nazi ideology and tactics.  And I don't buy for a second that the people Jackie stands in for are being duped.  "Jackie" knows who her is, and she either doesn't care or secretly agrees with Fritz.
Wait is Contra a man or a woman?
You have the best German out of any non-German Youtuber I've ever seen.
Hola, Did someone catch the end credit song ?
Urgh... I need some German chocolate.
Wtf you are gorgeous handsome everything.
But ... like why is it every time the left points to the dangers of fascist ideology the only historical precedent they turn to is wwII?
frankly astonishing
“I can hear you perfectly well! I can see you perfectly well!”
This video is honestly terrifying
OMG your German is to the point!
maybe im dumb but could someone please explain the ending with the Ouija board?
please dress up as slave leia
Pathological as fuck.
I would like to propose a different interpretation of the video. I sincerely think these neo fascists should be allowed to participate on public debates. Denying that caused a lot of problems in my country, Brazil. These extremist right wing discourses were obviously ignored by the media, but that didn't mean they weren't out there on the streets and specially the internet. By not allowing these discourses to come to the surface and be discredited as the reactionary  bullshitt that they are, this attempt to hide rather made them stronger, a form of counter culture of rebellion that was able to catalyze the disenchantment of the brazilian people with the establishment and elect a disgusting extremist like Bolsonaro - to me it is a similar situation to what happened with trump. Instead, I think the solution would be to put those neo fascists in a situation where they have to present good evidences for the claims they support. We should be able to argue with them to save the truth. The writer character in the video showed to me a situation that I've seen countless times in Brazil. A leftist academic who seems to be completely out of tune with the reality outside the university, so comfortable with his bubble that he gets scandalized when he hears an extremist talking. But we shouldn't be scandalized. This type of thinking was always out there in the world and it always will be. The best thing we can do is show it's weakness, so it doesn't elect a president.
The centrist kinda reminds me of Phil DeFranco
this is one of the most beautiful things I have ever seen..thank you
Only one thing could have broken our movement — if the adversary had understood its principle and from the first day had smashed, with the most extreme brutality, the nucleus of our new movement.”
Something occurred to me watching this (something I've thought of before, but never put into words): if everybody got their own 'homeland' where whites were with whites etc. would pretty soon all the white people were eyeing each other up thinking 'OK, these green-eyed whites have got to go, we need a homeland for the pure brown-eyes'. The question is whether the 'us v them dichotomy that exerts itself over 'race' (itself an absurd idea, since there is more genetic diversity in a single troupe of baboons than in the entire human race) would just continue to reassert itself over every little difference? Are we somehow programmed to do this, and race is just an excuse to exercise this fairly creepy trait that is part of our self-defeating software?
this is a work of art
Love the Ionesco references!
I don’t agree with the sentiment of this video.  I think liberals should directly take on the alt right point by point rather then try to silence them. That way you can expose the absurdity of their views. Like the idea that someone separating from minority’s will lead to the creation of some peaceful white homeland. As if they didn’t have a white homeland in Europe that went to war twice last century and almost ended the world.
Leftists who want to sway hearts and minds against fascist propaganda really need to strike a balance of rational argumentation AND unrelenting ridicule (which you and people like NonCompete and Chapo Trap House actually do pretty well already). This is how you square the circle of giving people reasons to reject your opponents' ideas without the *dreaded* risk of "legitimizing" them. The left needs to play dirty. I don't think that means we need to sacrifice reason and debate though. It DOES mean, however, that we need to do away with civility as a virtue in and of itself, and be willing to use incivility and mockery tactically, to make our enemies appear to everyone else as the fools we see them to be.  Step 1) Decapitate the nazi with FAX and LAWJICK; step 2) kick the nazi's head down the fucking escalator.
I nearly screamed when I saw that Ionesco reference - and then it was all Ionesco
Eternal daylight sounds like a nightmare.
It's so weird to me to hear contra speak with a more masculine voice when she's playing Fritz
I really enjoy these videos. And thanks for asking.
I'm gonna have nightmares about Fritz
Just found out what channel I should listen to while practicing my drawing for 6 hours a day.
Pretty decent german.
One of the most intriguing youtubers I've seen in a while.
I love the use of the left wing feminist character as a way to show the lack of depth contralists or republicans go into when it comes to seeing someone that is clearly a nazi or white-nationalist. Subtle and cleaver.
damn, her german is on point!
This is shockingly relevant in Germany, so thanks for subtitles, I guess
I want to read "First They Came For The Gamer Girls"
"Actually I prefer 'Sie' pronouns" probably the best joke ever written
Can we start just placing the triple round bracket around natzees?... (((Tucker Carlson))) (((Steve King)))  (((Jair Bolsenaro)))
Wow. That's powerful.
That's what christmas with my mother and her boyfriend felt like. I mean, he doesn't usually talk about politics with me and he's not a full-blown nazi (I guess), but my mother is slowly turning into a rhinoceros.
German sprechen = nazi, but honestly this is why people should learn history and not just the wars, learn the causes not the results
"likes to cosplay as slave Leia"
Great parody. The leftist character is really ineffective at rebuking the nazi. He basically just appeals to history and expresses incredulity in the way most leftists do. This is terrible optics to Liberals. Your channel is effective because it actually engages their ideology and exposes the bullshit.
So what was the Ouija board spelling out at the end? I've been watching it like three times and I have not a clue
God, your work is high art. I'm so grateful you exist, Contra. I love you! \o/
how is your German so good? Do they teach it in the USA?
Poor Saul. I think he needs new glasses. He can't believe his eyes.
Bravo
"They're engaging in violence because their lives are being threatened."  "The evidence is the historical record."  You mean the same historical record that proves left-wing street violence did precisely jack shit to stop the rise of fascism last time 'round and, in fact, probably made Nazi appeals to "law and order" resonate even MORE with Joe and Suzy Deutschland?  THAT historical record?
Love the The Elder Scrolls reference
You are just fantastic
That Spencer smile though. Bravo.
f a s c i s t   c r a c k p o t
What about the 100 million Russians and Poles that were murdered by the Nazis.
this vid is absolutely insane. art at its finest
This is incredibly accurate because Saul keeps calling Fritz a Nazi without explaining why
I don't agree but this is hilarious.
I had only seen one of your videos until about 3 days ago, and it was over a year ago so I can't (offhand) remember which one.  Then I saw (i.e., listened to) your recent Chapo Trap House interview and started re-watching you.  I've now seen about 7 of your videos in the last 3 days, and they're all just outstanding.  Really funny, precise, great acting, great attention to detail, and you understand YouTube, and the current zugzwang our culture finds itself in, as well as anyone does.  And this Rubin Report parody is the best of the string of your excellent videos that I have seen.  So what can be done about this?  You can't reason with the Right, they don't accept facts.  You can't just let events play out which contradict their worldview, because they claim "a conspiracy" that is impossible to disprove.  You can't debate them, they troll throughout and/or bring up a bunch of middling nonsense, and then claim victory.  You can't ignore them, because the movement metastasizes with your silence.  You can't shame them, because they have no shame, and if emotional appeals work on a neutral observer, that person is simply dismissed as not serious.  You can't use hypocrisy or trap them with their own words, because they just claim "this is out of context, you misunderstood me."  And you can't de-platform them because it self-fulfills their claims and makes them into victims.  And they actively cause harm while there's no good solution to stop them.  Can this world be salvaged in a post-factual, post-hegemonic era, where no one simply accepts objectivity anymore?
It's actually more simple than many people think, in the case of Dave Rubin if you want to "change his mind" you need to offer him more money. The guy has no true ideology, he's just an opportunist and is in it for the money. He's perfectly aware of what he's doing, he just doesn't care as long as he's getting rich. Ana Kasparian knows him well.
The people who deny holocaust aren't really the problem, they are just basically your middle-of-the-road basement dwellers who shout at clouds. The scary ones who we really should worry about are those who say that the Final solution to the Jewish question failed, and that those measures did not went far enough. Because they are the ones who mobilize people and are effective in their propaganda.
I'm having trouble knowing if these characters are all one person or different people
This is so funny as it is disheartening. Great video!
Ihr habt den Krieg verloren Is all I can say on that matter
Glasses guy: "He's a nazi!" Jackie:"I'm having trouble following you here if you don't make a rational and objective argument" Viewers chat: "I wanna cum in Jackie's hair"
Fuck, this is so depressingly and maddeningly accurate.
I love the smile the Nazi makes when Saul is talking. It's gold
Two years ago I might have been on the side of the classical liberal and it terrifies me.
Watching through your back catalogue, and this is so on point...
The international Jew is I guess you would say 'linked' in the way that they hold solidarity to an outside culture while still holding power in a very very different nation and people. We know too that these people hold common opinions, like any demographic, 75% of Jewish people are Democrats, and it seems like none of them ever contribute to help the nation or keep it's interests represented! Say for example in the media and in the corporations and in the governmen ect. ect. This is best seen in Weimar where national socialism was born, homosexual films where made en masse compared to before and porn flourished, oligarchs dined and poverty ran free. It was total usurpation of the traditional and family oriented German people to the oligarch, the jew. Not to say any shabbos goy  aren't involved either.
I AM A CLASSICAL LIBERAL
In the setting she woulden't say "dir" or "du" but instat sie or ihnen Grate viedeo just a little Tip about german from a german
Narcissist
Before it ended I was just going to ask if this was inspired by Rhinoceros by Eugene Ionesco. Greetings from Romania here, love what you do!
Maybe your best work. Beautifully done. A brilliant warning to centrists.
killing a capitalist is no different from killing a man who has just beaten to death a small child .
capitalists should be killed as they will kill all of us if allowed to live .
I lived on the border for 6 yrs Campo , CA , look it up. Ya know what?  Nicer than most of the white folks.
All Germans are Nazis haha... fun fact, make this joke in Germany the whole time and you're going to find yourself beaten up on the street real soon. Because most of us are sick of it.
It really looks like the left today is a sinking ship. Have we really grown so bad at debate that we have started whitewashing our defeat by claiming the 'other' is evil? "Don't talk to them", "they're all just scum' - phrases like these (I'm not saying YOU said them) sound like the last, most desperate cries of a political faction near its death. Each of Fritz's points could have been easily countered. But NO, the lesson of the story is, if you put a charismatic rightist and a leftist academic from a sanitized echo chamber together, the rightist wins. "You can't argue with a fascist" sounds dangerously like an acknowledgement of fascist invulnerability.    In any case, what a truly depressed person one would have to be to think (a) people are indeed inherently stupid and susceptible to fascist brainwashing, and (b) that one couldn't do anything about it.   We KNOW debate is more about manipulation than facts, right? Then we should get off the high horse and manipulate our audiences into becoming tolerant, multicultural and all that. Because if we refuse to play the game, we're only making it that much easier for the fascists to win.
I always find one of the best ways to debunk the whole "Jews run the world thing"  is to simply look up the wealthiest families and individuals on the planet. Pretty much none are Jewish---at least none of the top ten.  You then pose the question "if Jews run the world, why don't they have all the money?"  You'll invariably get some bullshit about the Rothschilds hiding money, or secret Jews. Secret jews are a ridiculous idea, so you pretty much won the debate if they go that route.  If they choose to babble about the Rothschilds, ask them "why do you believe in a debunked Napoleonic conspiracy theory?" at which point you can google it, and show them...  Ironically, the two groups I wind up explaining this to most are white alt righter's, and far left leaning African-American Muslims. It's never occurred to me before, but it's a weird fucking dichotomy....
I don't get what the rhino was a metaphor for but I laughed my ass off at it xD
WOHER KOMMT DEINE FÄHIGKEIT, DEUTSCH ZU SPRECHEN?
Two thirds of all terrorism in the US is right wing terrorist and yet counter strike the fascist game I PLAY doesnt have a single map with a right wing terrorist militia, like a bunch of inbred hicks trying to blow up a school and the spawn is a van covered in trump stickers.   This facist game instead has left wing terrorist being unsure and portrayed not all that positively. Not nearly fearsome and confident as the middle-eastern terrorists, you know the type that of terrorism that isn;t that popular actually but damn does it pop in the corporate media.
That "I dont understand why white people are always blamed for all of histories problems" bullshit the right spouts is complete crap because I'm also blaming white people for all present problems too.
lol so hard at 7:40 that is me literally every day, but especially since the start of the Iraq war.
Love how "securing a future for white children" doesnt ever include handling nuclear weapons or global warming, you know the two largest threats to human life. Followed by diet, which only kills half of all people.
Rhinozeros!
Why is contra so hot? 5:40
How are liberal lives threatened?!
also ich muss ja sagen mich überascht jedes mal wie gut dein deutsch ist
Very very funny, considering the horror of the situation.
You didn't gave eny facts agienst alt right ////but however u need to talk about lift that why I am her for contrapiont
A parable
*A S T O N I S H I N G*
10/10 cringe
F R A N K L Y   A S T O N I S H I N G
Is ‘I find this frankly astonishing’ some kind of ‘would you kindly’ for this character’s audience
In portuguese BR, we understend better if you use "extrema direita". Congrats for the Channel.
I can't get over how well you pronounced all the German dialogue
"Conservatives are getting violent because their lifes are threatened by Communist ideology. The things the Left advocates would lead to state violence with victims on the scale of millions. The evidence is the historical record."  Hmmmmmmmmm
🐸🐸🐸
This are literally my political conversations with people on reddit on the last year, it's impossible to debate the alt right.
I appreciate the wackiness of your content.
[creepy ambient music, groaning sounds]
Language = Propaganda. Sucks. thx CP.
"Social Justice theatre of the absurd" sums it up pretty well actually.
Gotta love how entertaining nazi beliefs is “keeping an open mind” and disavowing them is “being overly emotional.” Thanks for these videos, Natalie. You’re a beacon of hope in these dark times.
This is only the second vid of yours that I'm seeing. Madness. Glorious Madness.
Can we stop using germans as a parody of Nazism when there are more Nazis in the United States than in Germany? I feel like it deludes that fact that plenty of "regular" Americans are Nazis...
I'm gonna have nightmares about this tonight.
Love the play reference. My mum actually had her Senior students perform Rhinoceros this year, for obvious reasons.
Ja genau, why should one be labelled a Nazi if only you wish to live among dein eigenes Volk ?  Does se left have no better arguments without resorting to label one whom disagrees with them an NSDAP member,...wirklich Leute, ist das alles ?     Creepy innit ?!
I'm alt right, if anyone wants to debate me about race you can go ahead
Wow, too real .. too real.  While exposing nazi manipulation techniques will help prevent that more people get swayed to the dark side, at this point this approach feels almost futile, like .. idk .. teaching kids safe handling of fire, while the forest around us is already burning to the ground.  I was born and partially raised in Poland, have been a German immigrant citizen for a while now, have lived in the US for a while too. Watching what is happening in these countries is terrifying and heart-breaking, not even speaking of Brazil. Is this how things went down 80 years ago?   I look at my friends and family, they're already toxic. It's too late for prevention, they'd need some kind of 'antidote' to this poison, but I can't find any. Circular logic, false dichotomies, blatant denial of irrefutable facts, dismissal of empathy as "naivety" etc. .. it feels like there is nothing I can say or do to break through their twisted reality.  Help! What do I do?!   I have changed people's minds, while they were still somewhat open to debate. But these are way too few in relation to the majority of people that are too far gone. They used to be good people, they still consider themselves good people .. it's mind-boggling, and I get so frustrated sometimes that I just wanna pick them up and shake them to wake them up, but I end up crying with desperation instead.  Any advice or idea what I could try next is appreciated - I refuse to give up.
Primordial Tempestuous Unconscious Libidinal Forces Threaten To Erupt and Destroy Society At Any Moment!
Terrific and well thought out. Superb video 😊
I’m I fanboying so hard for Contra!!!!
jackie is joe rogan :)
live chat so funny
This is very well done! But if you really believe neonazis are the current fascist threat, and that they are hard to beat in a calm and reasonable debate, then maybe you should stick to the creative side of things where your talent is, and leave the political philosophy to someone else.
this is genius
c'mon guys, you're all fucking commies and you want to discredit nazis for them being nazis?? Are you sure you want that?
What's the difference between a great YouTuber and a brilliant one? One of them makes Ionesco references. I don't know what I'm saying, I love you!
I'm RickyT
This is the best fever dream I ever had
Holy arts degree, is that an Ionesco reference?
What does the end code say?
Hilarious and smart
The way all these characters are portrayed is so compelling.
What did the wigi board say?
so what does fyrrcref njnxr rgreany qnlyvtug fuvarf actually mean?
lol, if you take it out of context, the guy with glasses seems to be impersonating jordan peterson.
Why is your german so good?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tU7kmQhXr8k
Sooooo great. Nothing profound to add, you covered all the bases.
У парня плохо с акцентом. Да и его сложно назвать нацистом по костюму - больше похож на любителя садомазахизма с перчиком немецкого языка из Америки.
Holocaust denial laws are a really bad idea I think. We should not have a politically mandated history. But it is worth pointing out that by the logic of Fritz, communist crimes should also be doubted, because some countries (i.e. Hungary, Ukraina and Lithuania) also have laws that forbid the denial of Soviet atrocities.
Something I've found to work when arguing with these people about policy, is to ask them a simple question: "How are you going to achieve these goals?" Fascist arguments tend to be ridiculous and self defeating if you allow them play out to their logical conclusions, so take them there instead of getting hung up 'he's a fascist' or any ethical objection you might have. Let them speak for themselves, and keep asking for further clarification. Soon enough they will mess up, either by revealing the full degeneracy of what is required to make their white ethnostate a reality, or how they have no freakin clue how they're actually gonna go about this, or how they would ever pass this in a multi-party democracy with a functioning rule of law.  They basically demonstrate their degeneracy and impotence and best of all? They can't even say that you demonized them or anything because you just showed 'genuine' intrest. Freakin hillarious how these people will run themselves of a cliff this way.
INFINITE JEST IN THE BOOKCASE
"Here's evidence of a Jewish conspiracy." "... MUH SIX MILLION."
I got the hunger to see Marxist explaining the ideas calmly and rationally. Maybe to somebody from Ukraine or other former SU?
where does she get those wonderful toys?
Rubin in the middle
God this fucking pisses me off. It's still too true though.
It's always nice to be reminded of The Rhinoceros.  Gene Wilder and Zero Mostel were awesome in the film.
Did anyone understand the analogy? There is a french play called rhinoceros (about nazis).
Jesus fucking christ, that was a chilling video.  I needed to stop and get a hug about halfway through.
Theatre, debate, battle, chess, all of these modes of asserting dominance. It's a fight for survival. It's a fight. It's possible it can go either way. But it'll go one way.  I wonder if the world of facts in science can be as hard. It's so hard to win a fact from reality. Maybe I don't need to know?  And what's so wrong in that dystopia that she, the little fascist on her hill of skulls, who says such cute things in delusional love with chaos isn't making the most of something so tragic that she cannot change? Oh well. It comes, the time to clean up all the skulls and try again.  Maybe we'll win.  Better luck next time.  Goodnight.
How are people not seeing this?  Because they know it'd be a bad idea if people did. So show people.
I see this scape goat a lot though. I'm gonna go there.  By identifying a patriarchy as indicative of a systemic conspiracy of men to control women you're committing the same logical fallacy as the nahzee. You know just because people in power happen to be men that doesn't indicate that there is a conspiracy of men (((jews)women)grandad's wrinkled dick struggling to maintain relevance as death closes in). Okay that last one is offensive.
I love your work so much this video is absolutely AWESOME!!! really this is brilliantly done.
literally a year late but... the ouija plaintext, when ceasar shifted by +13 reads "SLEEPERS AWAKE ETERNAL DAYLIGHT SHINES". just in case anyone was wondering what that was
I had to watch a few segments twice because I kept reading the "tweets" and, having the attention span of a hamster, cannot focus on both the written and the spoken word. This was awesome. The German was flawless; the accent is cute.
I was wondering if the rhino head was a reference to Ionesco. I'm glad it was. Also your german is <3 <3
You are a great actress. You did so well that I started to hate Fritz.
Thought this was a David Foster Wallace interview
the funniest point is that the facebook ceo being jewish has been used to prove the media is controlled by ''ze jews''... and then it turned out facebook had something to do with selling data to an agency that ended up promoting the alt-right. so basically, the jewish-controlled media ended up being the fertile terrain for antisemitism. BUT SURE THE MEDIA IS CONTROLLED
The liberal "reason loving" ironic critique is incredibly on point
Hey, I've been watching a lot of Rebel Media, James Allsup, Lauren Southern, etc. type content for the past few years because it was recommended to me by YouTube and I used to listen to them and wanted to agree with to them for... Reasons. Now, I'm getting recommended a lot of videos from the opposite end of the political spectrum (and I'm wondering what that's about). I'm still not entirely sure what to think... I'm not sure that I'm able to relinquish this type of ideology that I've held for years, but I want to at least hear more from this side. Any suggestions for videos to watch? I'm not saying I'll change my mind, and I'm not looking for debates (mostly because I've never been good at arguing), but I'm a good listener and I'm ready to give this side a shot.
fyrrcref n jnxr rgreany qnlyvtug fuvarf is the sequence at the end correct me if I'm wrong...
Disturbingly accurate
This was, in my view, one of the lesser Contrapoints videos, in that it did not finish addressing the opposing view and relied on the absurdity of the situation to prevail over the very rational arguments that could have been made, and though its theatrical value was high, I believe that it would have been more poignant to have Saul, even if only in his own mind, or to have Contra herself as an aparté, finish having the debate. I understand the comment on civility and "free speech" made here, and there are other Contrapoints videos that do a better job of addressing the entire debate, but this one seems unfinished, as though there is no solution to the omnipresence of the Shapiros and Rogans and Rubins and Murrays of the world.
Unlike what most of you madmen believe, debating is not a bad thing even if it is with a facist. The goal of a debate is not to convince the other speaker, it is to convince the public. You said it yourself that centrists get manipulated easily. Well then manipulate them yourself. If you can't dismiss anti-semitism then you simply have not looked into the damn subject hard enough. Look into the works that fuel it like the culture of critique, the protocol of the elders of zion and history books in areas and time periods when jewish populations were kicked out of countries. If the jewish question is fake then prove that it is fake. Not to the "Nazi" in front of you but to the people listening to you.
Did you purchase a rhinoceros mask specifically for this video?
Even if I didn't agree with many of your points, I like your style.  Style is the most important thing in Life.  Cheers!
✌❤🦏
How did you manage to be 3ppl at once? :V
*How are you Nazi-ing this?*  BTW I've never been so glad to know a bit of German "Würde gern mit dir über die Judenfrage sprechen" well played lmao
How rich is Nazi propaganda?  U'd think they be making PSAS by now.
Contra passes as a german.
Classmate: Did u make your homework? Me: 8:00
This is so accurate it's painful
Ionesco reference! I'm dying.
scary after yesterday's events
Did anyone take the time to compile the letters from the Ouija board?
This is terrifying. I once talked to a classical liberal and this happened.
what's abigail up to in the post credits thingy i wonder
This is fantastic. This perfectly represents what it's like to argue with neo-Nazis.  I don't know how best to counter them besides not inviting them to debates and convincing conservatives to do the same. I try to rationally argue when I have to, but the absurdity of their ideas makes it so difficult. I mean, for fuck's sake, I literally have to explain Modus Ponens to these people. They state without justification that **P** and **P->Q**, but it takes fifteen minutes to make any progress in explaining why that entails the obviously atrocious **Q**, and in the meantime, they bring up a thousand other unsubstantiated claims that logically entail the extermination of non-white races, but refuse to admit it and claim that their positions are moderate. It's infuriating. It's possible to outlast them with sheer endurance and staying laser-focused on the main points---if they say today 2+2=5, you make a mental note of it and let it slide, because they love to go off on equally false tangents as soon as they're cornered.  But it's *so hard* to debate with someone who doesn't believe in the merits of debate. They don't argue in good faith. I still think that they can't win in the end---you can only fool so many people for so long---but how much more shit are we going to have to wade through first?
At first I thought this said "deboning" and I was really excited about it. xD
Nice!!
The most irritating thing is making excuses for why someone "shouldn't have to debate" an apparent "opponent". Fine then, don't. If you debated them then you might expose their flimsy hypocrisy and change minds and then you'd have to make videos about cats. I'm 99% certain at this point that the Alt Right is the Lefts' fetishised antithesis and without them they'd have no one to play with. Unless they are incapable of debating within boundaries, as a rule you should debate those people.
Thank you for asking
this was your best video ever nat. I hope you're ok internet stranger. I'm sorry people online are so relentlessly cruel to you. It's good to remember that these gamergateass white nationalist ass channer would-be fag bashers online are truly so evil.
The depressing current state of political discourse thanks to fascists in America.
This is so on-point that it's almost unwatchable
The main reason why holocaust denial is banned in many counties is mostly the survivors themselves not the people around them... Israel for example did not speak a word about the atrocities in public media years after the country was established... Holocaust survivors may receive some compensation from Germany and are "entitled"(the only similar word coming to my mind) to free healthcare in Israel(I don't know about the rest of the world) but it's not something that can be forgotten easily, most of them(whom are still alive that is) are deeply traumatized to this day and the next generation and in some cases the one after that most likely have vivid memories of all the horrible stories told by their parents or grandparents or the "weird" attitudes they had towards everything in life as a result of their trauma. People tend to mention "I'm first(or second) generation of holocaust survivors" for a reason..it has an effect on the family for generations.
Normally you freak me the hell out but that was deep!
That rhino bit is genius
sleepers awake eternal daylight shines
Vibing David Lynch so hard aaaaaa
I often find myself partially disagreeing with you. But at the same time, you always teach me something. I love yo dialectical ass. As soon as I'm not a pauper I will be a patron. Patreon. Patriarchy! Mwuhahahahahaha
The Ionesco easter egg is INSANE! The music is GREAT!, the lighting is ON POINT!
holy fuck this is cancer im killing myself
you look like aubrey plaza as jackie jackson
I reall, really, really love your videos and your personality... But it's true, the refugee crisis has changed us, it has changed Europe. I used to be on the far-left, I grew up in an "Autonomes Zentrum", I was part of a local antifa group... But still, the harsh reality of what has happened here has changed my mind.  Come to Cologne, Germany ... especially Mülheim, Kalk and Porz and see for yourselves what mass muslim immigration has done to us. Violent crime has skyrocketed in the city and police statistics are showing that it is, indeed, largely comitted by muslim migrants.  We used to be a colorful, happy, cheerful city... but nowadays people, especially women, are afraid to go out at night without at least one 'strong man' at their side...  It really pains me to say this because I don't care what skin color you have or whatever, but even my korean friends here in Germany are telling me that they are sick of all the muslims and their violent & rude behaviour.  How can I support politicians that want to make all this even worse any longer? Please tell me. I don't want to vote for a right-wing party, but I also don't want to tolerate this any longer!!
ContraPoints as Fritz is just too adorable to be mad at.
Cool trippy Ionesco reference. Where do you costume shop?
A problem with left intellectuals is that they will not accept Zionism as a reasonable, logical answer to the problems put forth by fascists. an even stronger paradox is that leftists sometimes equate Zionism with right-wing violence. that is to say, if you observe the right of marginalized groups for self determination then the classical liberal model of a state has to agree with the one of Israel: a liberal democracy the observe the rights of minorities to be represented. I'm a left wing Israeli, but in recent years it has been difficult for me to identify with the leftist parties in my country. because of their amicable relationships with anti-Zionist organizations. that makes no sense for me (unless you count the political motivation).
Bahahaha. An Ionescu reference @4 mins. Trippy and great.
1:06 when you're not a girl, not a boy, but DEFINITELY a goy
Fritz is freaking charming, so your point on the Alt-right comes accross even more clearly. You really nailed it.
SLEEPERS AWAKE ETERNAL DAYLIGHT SHINES
I immediately recognized Rhinoceros. Perfect!
Good god, Fritz's smile is so deliciously evil.  Who knew Natalie would make such a good nazi?
the idea that anti.semitism is exclusive to nazees is silly and I'm tired of seeing it everywhere in left-leaning media
"Hallo Leute... Ehm..." :D
So pronoun gets a pass to play Nazi dress-up, which both pronoun and fanbase seem to enjoy - but I'd assume others with somewhat diffrent viewpoints who utilize Nazi imagery are dog whistling. What about Marylin Manson? What about Death in June - a songwriter who uses such imagery for artistic purposes and is also a gaylord who plays concerts in Israel? Do they get a pass or are they just edgelords? It seems to hinge on whether they fall in line with what the ever changing SJW orthodoxy.  What I see here is a group of people claiming to have a monopoly on symbolism for moral reasons, reasons that are constantly narrowing for the few morally enlighted few while all others are dissmissed as being overy pendantic or muddying the waters. Their use of symbols is clearly justified because their shared ideas and beliefs are inherently superior... and wait where were we again?  I'm not trolling (of course by the logic presented in these videos I probably am or just being played as a puppet by the sneaky *what was it again*) Nor am I trying to victimize or defend Nazism (d'oh, once again being being tricked into doublespeak by the shadowy manipulative *who again*) or say that pronoun and Nazism have similar goals (that would be ridiculous). But dammned if I do Damned if I don't I'm legitmitaly interested in how people don't see the paralells in these lines of thinking.
I know I'm a year late but has any one made " can't you naziiiiii that"
ionesco references !! v nice
If Saul wouldn't have spent so much time and effort whining and complaining like a bitch and instead shot the bastard... Oh well, there goes the future of the left.
CONTRAPONINTS IS THE BEST YOUTUBER TO EVER LIVED.
Cesar Milan save hundreds of dogs, but i guess because you are a shitty youtuber you know better.   At this point the only person can defeat donal trump is Dwayne THE ROCK Jonson.
your Nazi persona is insanely hot, I'm confused...
Usurf Usera
You're so hot! *ahem* carry on
Could have stopped appealing to history as if no one ever learns from it
This is my favourite video on this channel. In 12 minutes she has managed to convey the irrationality that's present on social and traditional media regarding these issues. I always watch it. I'm going to find time and translate this to Greek because this is the most relevant thing you can share with Greek people at this time.
Fritz is sexy, damn you!
Man this video has attracted some truly disgusting people to the comments. Fuck off nazis
Excellent
Should've mentioned all of the CEOS that aren't Jewish; correlation does not equal causation, folks.
this video is also very interesting because a lot of people in the comments are saying fritz is kinda hot and so on which again proves how even liberals and leftists (even just ironically) feel drawn to the forbidden allure of alt right figures. this is a propaganda strategy that goes back to nazi germany, and even today women in the alt right are treated like latex wearing sexy dominas by centrist media. i would love if you did a video on this topic (why the alt right is sexy. kek) because it's not talked about a lot. here's a trashy vox article on it: https://www.vox.com/identities/2017/8/19/16152166/sexualized-fascism-nazisploitation-alt-right
this video is so fascinating and thought-out i have to watch it at least once a day. also you almost sound like a native german,  good job u nailed fritz
This is so good
this channel is not only entertaining or good-scripted, it is a public service you are doing here. I am a very politically "center" person and I agree with some liberal ideologies about the free market and freedom of speech, and I could see myself being persuaded by Fritz while not noticing the underlying fascism of his ideologies. While people like me may completely disagree with his racist ideas, we can still be persuaded to not condemn Fritz immediately due to our freedom-centered beliefs. When he said that sentence about only achieving his goals by "peaceful means" I thought the same thing as the interviewer: that doesn't sound violent. It was a shock even to my university-educated mind when Saul revealed that sentence was taken from literal nazi propaganda. I am in awe and I hope to learn more from your channel so as to perceive these underlying politics more often! Thank you very much!   As for other people like me who feel they do not agree entirely with the left but are definitely against fascism: Do not make yourself vulnerable to being rhino-ed! Do not argue with nazis. Do not argue with nazis. Do not argue with nazis. They do not CARE about what they are saying. They WILL lie to your face and make up fake science to confuse you. Once you establish they have racist ideas, which could be noticed as soon as the nazi walked in the video, SHUT IT DOWN. They are only debating you because they want to convince you of accepting them, or convince a third person into their movement. SHUT IT DOWN.
Ooh, demonic ASMR. My favorite!
I feel like this all the time, it's a bit like being gaslighted i think
I'm Jewish and I think Fritz is being completely reasonable.
So are we just fucked? Are fascists gonna rise up again and there's nothing we can do?
Can you say Fritz fischt frische Fische please thank you
What was the rhino about ? I'm not good with symbolism or literal/pop-culture references.. Anyone ?
So you didn't actually answer the question, and I kind of need one. Because the answer I come up with "Punch them in the face" will at some point get me in trouble, and I don't want that.
ahhh i love all your videos
I have to say you represented all sides very fairly from what I have seen
The revision of history is rooted in the fact that after the Jews were exterminated and persecuted and after the German army surrendered the Russian army executed a biblical shitload of them then another shitload surrendered to us.
Ur retarded dude
This happened live on Facebook and ended with chicks fucking nazis not joking lol
"Is this guy a Nazi?" "NEIN!" "Ew. Byyyyyyyyyyyyyyyeeeeeeeeeiiiiiiiiiiii!"
Contra seems conflicted here every one of these characters are too well acted  Side note: Saul is really hot
Nice classic alternative theatre reference
Clicked thinking you would counter alt-right arguments with the same seriousness and logic you usually bring to this kind of topic.  Disappointed that I got a skit that caricatures alt-righters.  This gives the other side more ammo, not less.
Wow! I am in awe! This was brilliant. Even though I am everything that you and your public would despise, regarding my opinion on gender and trasngender identity, I have to admit your competence and, I dare say, brilliance.
Open shots: Pentagram Close-ups: Inverted Pentagram  Was this intentional, Natalie?
Lmao good shit
"what i can say to change his mind?" maybe not calling him nazi and perform in a way that not can been used like an argument for the oposite side.
Your German is good  Cool  Normally i cringe a lot when people speak German since it is a hard language
Hallo Leute,  ich würde auch gerne über die judenfrage sprechen lol
you know whats the think, I agree with you, but you also prove how uneffective usual arguments are at shutting down fascist. If people don't know what to look for not even the nazi uniform will clue them in
This is definitely my favorite ContraPoints video of all time! So much witty dialogue with a compelling point. And the live chat comments are hilarious yet sadly realistic.
Hhhh my three years of German finally came to use 😂
This is a less than 15 min masterpiece video. It shows how easy it is for just about anybody to buy into lies (and that it's a process, not an event). All that's required is emotional and aesthetical appeal of a bullshit's wrapping and a mere pretense of rationality.
The best part about this video is the "comments." That was hilarious and though-provoking at the same time.
The twitter comments are so on point. holy shit
What were you spelling on the Ouija Board?
Haha! Ionesco reference ftw!
>Body Narratives and Traditional Chinese Medicine  My fucking sides have been obliterated
So the title screen at 9:54 kind of put me off guard because I didn't expect this to be directly inspired by theater (Though in hindsight Natalie's music work would suggest at least a study in theater possibly) and I'm guessing this was based off Eugène Ionesco's play, Rhinoceros. From what I'm reading it's an avant-garde play  that criticizes the sudden upsurge of Fascism and Nazism during the events preceding World War II, which people turn into... well rhinoceros. It came out in 1959, but damn it's more relevant than ever. This video was just very well done too, nice job
I Belive reason will pravail  Now, about the jewish question.   GOLD
Why are`nt there any serious debates ,with actual oponents
Even the male character looks like a lesbian lol
i love how surreal these feel and funny while making a point too
This video is so accurate, it hurts.
"Is Jackie on redtube yet?" 😂
Damn, this is the most accurate portrayal of my family's Thanksgiving dinner I've ever seen.
Man, Contra I just don't know to feel about you. You show such self awareness. And yet, the video does nothing in the way of refutation of the valid points it presents. I'm guessing that wasn't the point.  So, centrist? That's cool I guess.
I always have to laugh at the German in your video. It's weird to hear German in English vids but I love it! Your pronunciation and grammer are great, though!
So apparently you didn't actually refute anything this Nazi guy said instead you just demonize others as "quite clearly Nazis" why dont you present any Actual arguments? Serous question
I don't grok the Judoon reference.
Oh wow someone's cosplaying as Joe Rogan.
Eastern Europeans hate jews because they were the ruling class and upper party members of USSR.  Stalin changed that. . . but not out of any persecution of jews but because he was paranoid and only trusted his network of NKVD and generals.  He took out the status quo jewish ruling class and replaced it with his own, but the fact that there was a jewish boshlevik ruling class is why slavs as a whole distrust them in the modern era.   imho, the Russian Jewish rise and fall in USSR's boshlevik power structure is more interesting than Muh Gazillion trillion of Nazi Empire.
You motive how Fritz makes a lot of claims, but doesn’t necessarily defend them? It’s part of the alt right play book: never play defense.
This was a...scary, yet very true sattire. This is what many leftists don't see, even if what they say is rational, they present themselves too uppity at times, holier than thou in some cases. While the alt right presents themselves are chill, cool, down with the flow charismatic people. Look at these two, one is a literall natzi, the other is a concerned liberal. And yet, who sounds far more annoying, and thus, less bearable?
Fantastic
This is my favorite Dave Rubin video
And afterwards Saul and his family gets doxed and harassed.
I was grinning ear to ear I just love a good villain.
Advocating thought control and freedom of speech restriction for illogical reasons such as "I don't like them, and I think they are dangerous by definition"  is technically also nodding in agreement with the Nazis.   I only agree with that Nazis as far as they're right to freely express their speech. Which one is worse?
I think there are two things that contribute to this unfortunate situation. 1. The left has become stupid and complacent from decades of everyone assuming they're right so they can't argue worth fuck anymore. Not even that they can't argue, they've just forgotten the arguments used to put down these ideologies back in the early 20th century. The alt-right uses the same fucking arguments from before and the left think they can get away with broadly gesturing at history, when all they need to do is just read a few Churchill speeches and repeat them verbatim.  2. The left has a naive belief that free press is this magically good thing when the reality is journalists are terrible awful people who will gladly circlejerk themselves to death if that's what people want to see.
Well, if you can't rationalize with bad faith actors, and you can't just... you know... PUNCH them, then what is left? Sure I can refuse to personally give them a platform, but I can't control it if anyone else does. If you're in a similar situation, what's the strategy? Because currently giving bad faith back at bad faith is fun, but it's not working.
I just had a thought. This bit here 6:00 reminds of another topic. Flat earthers and their denial of the Globe earth. The language they use is almost identical to Fritz, its scary!
there is SO much happening in the first two minutes
"She" won't even debate a so called "alt rightist". Lmao
Omg I'm at the end of the video and I'm really high and scared
You are so fucking funny!!!! 😂😂😂😂
You have culturally appropriated the Godzilla Roar, which is a trademarked sound effect of Toho Film Corp.
as a German, I find this highly .... entertaining.  Also your German pronunciation is very good!
Kudos to your german
Was the rhinoceros bit a reference to Ionesco?
It's indeed funny that some people say that holocaust denial being illegal in a European country like mine is Orwellian thought policing. Despite the fact that I and many others have great grandfathers that went 'Gegen die mauer' for having partisan red Socialist ideals. How funny that nazis must be talking about thought policing.
best anti-centrist video ever.
🤢
I get the Rhinoceros reference, and it's important to me that other people know this. :-|
Disliked the video, made too much sense. Am a Nazi now.
Never have I seen a channel where I am simultaneously entertained, enlightened, and triggered so hard. I both see where you're coming from, and also thinking how wrong you are. I am a Trump supporter and Lauren Southern fan, and I believe I need these videos, and intellectuals like you, to continue on with your critiques, so that I can keep my truthiness in check. But there is no higher ground than reality itself; not philosophy, not politics, not any theory; just plain ole' reality. And Humans, in reality, ARE TRIBAL. Never think otherwise. A person's identity to their race, culture, what town they were born/raised in, or their freakin' high school football team; they will always root and fight for the familiar over the strange or foreign. Saying that every other 'race' has this, except the jews, is in itself a racist statement (imo). Never underestimate another human being's tribalistic nature, even for something as stupid as using the same nail polish brand. When philosophers conflate a persons inherent need for the familiar with "those god-damn Natsees!!", it just simply muddies the waters until neither side can actually see each other clearly; and therefore the debate dwindles to name-calling.   I'm sorry, this is a bit of a rant, but damn, your videos trigger me in such a way that I had to respond.   TLDR; keep up the videos ContraPoints, no matter how many false flags you get!
I like this format so much!
First on the train
Fyrrcref njnxr rgreany qnlyvtug fuvarf?
Jesus this is spot on, it's fucking terrifying
this whole series of yours natalie! its really good! ive watched a few recently and you have a really nice way with making everyday 'disagreements' based on people's livelihoods into horror, the same way that they are for the people being practically ridiculed in these conversations. any chance they take to defend themselves is seen as being overdramatic and lying! they're practically watching everyone become a monster. it's a good take and i love it.
I find this frankly astonishing.
fyrrcrefnjnxrrgreanyqnlyvtugfuvarf - what does it mean?
This is art.
This is horrible, how the fuck do you have any subscribers is beyond men!
Fritz seemed to be having SO MUCH fun!!!
Could I like the video a thousand times, please YouTube come up with such features!!!
The "nazi" had valid points and i dont think left people can just silverthonge their way into a valid answer, if else just claim proudly we are wrong because we are bad 😃 like toddlers
Oh my various gods, this burns
i'm strangely attracted to Saul
“Likes to cosplay slave leia”
Eugene Ionesco?? Contra, marry me please
very dramatic
I was scared for Saul ngl
Contra is adorable even as a creepy fascist.
I thought the Godzilla road was copyrighted
Saul I feel you so much right now bro....
Trippy. Though I do find it irksome that there was not a more detailed explanation of how these beliefs lead to violence, as I know that they do but I like to be able to explain to people just why they are being stupid and they should avoid Nazi propaganda disguised as "rational discourse" it's annoying to feel I can't  directly counter the Nazi's arguments.
leftist: everyone should have free speech, but...      hey you fascist just sit at the back of the room and don't talk to loud,ok
NPR be like....
ionesco!!!
I’d be Saul
That fucking godzilla roar is my favorite monster sound effect of all time!!!!!!!1
The alt-right is disgusting. But need to be exposed not silenced. People need to know that we have a cultural sickness so we can address it
Why the fuck are the views not in the millions! This is great.
YOU CAN TRANSFORM INTO ONE HOT WOMAN, AMAZING YOU ARE...
YOU ARE AMAZING YOU CAN LOOK LIKE A PERFECT GUY AND A WOMAN LIKE A COIN, I LIKE YOUR TEACHING STYLE, GREAT VIDEO'S YOU ARE UNIQUE, A CHAMELEON ARE YOU A REPTILIAN ???
2:36 I see what you're doing...that's pretty close to a quote from hitler
Aaaaaaaand now I'm scared. This was too real.
I have now words for how well this was done, down to the last detail.
It is not "judío individual", but "individuo judío".
Flagging intensifies*
Small nitpick but why was "Unter dem Doppeladler" used for when the Nazi came in? The song is Austrian, back to the Austro-Hungarian Empire, a multi-ethnic state.    Also, I hadn't realized I was being too controlled by the Alt right. I kind of identified with Jackie Jackson in her trying to be impartial and unbiased. I saw Saul as being ineffectual and weak, he didn't seem to try and do a whole lot of countering to the Nazis views. He just straight up called him a Nazi, allowing the Nazi to gain the high moral ground in a sense. Saul should have played the Nazi's game, by seeming innocent, but them exposing him as a Nazi. Alt right knows they can't say what they really want to say, so they use this veneer of reason and logic. As a liberal I feel it is your duty to expose to the public who they really are.  How would I counter things the Nazis are saying here, such as, securing a future for white children? To your average Joe this seems quite reasonable.
This is not how you don’t debate the Alt right. The left need to stop promoting a sad, grovelling depressing white identity as it’s actually driving more people to the Alt right. Also I am not surprised so many of you leftist are so depressed your self. It must suck falling into the SJW ideology.
I don’t get it with neonazis and using the word aryan. The nazis almost never used the word aryan because it’s too inclusive. So to nazi germany the american neonazis would be like SJWs
The "Jews are overrepresented in the media and banks" argument is the most sly, yet false shit I've ever heard from the Alt-Right. They claim Jews make up only 3% of the American population, but make up nearly 6 times that in the media. First of all, no respectable economist would take that argument seriously. What if I were to tell you that MLK High School in Atlanta, GA was 80% black despite blacks only making up 12% of the American population? You'd think I was a fucking idiot. Blacks aren't over-represented in that high school, they are over-represented in that neighborhood, and slightly over-represented in that city, but reasonably represented in the state of Georgia. Well where are most of the largest media organizations that white supremacists say the Jews run?  New York and California, major immigration hubs. http://www.adherents.com/largecom/com_judaism.html In fact, you'll see this "Jewish overrepresentation" in pretty much any industry in cities Jews are aggregated, which are mainly coastal cities. Even garbage collection. Turns out the Jews control the garbage too! Oh no! Jewish population in New York is 4 times the national representation. So it makes sense the Jewish workers in any field in these cities would be greater than the national representation. You don't see Jews running media companies in Kansas.  Second, "Control" is stupid af of a term to use. They skew statistics so bad it hurts my brain. Banks, Hedge Funds, and media corporations have very small board member and ownership faculty compared to other companies in other industries. This is mainly because these are high cash-generating, and greedy people-attracting positions. So when someone tells you "X" company is run by 35% Jews! But there are only 2 Jewish people there out of like 7, they are fucking with your head. Most corporations in the U.S. and regionally are owned by whites, hands down.  Third, Jews are more likely to attend college and have incredibly high literacy rates. In many Jewish households, fathers teach their children strict financial success tactics and push them to excel in mathematics and the sciences. Jewish individuals tend to attend college for Business Admin or MacroEconomics/Finance. Therefore they are much more likely to get a position in managing a business or working in Finance. So Jewish people in the media aren't people pushing rhetoric, media corporations are just a another business whose financials they can manage and help grow.  Fourth and final point: If the mere over-representation of Jews in the media and Finance is evidence of Jewish oppression against whites, then how can you say minorities are not still being oppressed when whites, are actually in control of the media and finance? How come Jews are oppressive when they are over-represented, but whites are not oppressive when they are over-represented?
Oh my god... I have been the rhino.../I have been “rhinocercized”. Willing participant or victim? But honestly why exactly IS it racist to have white culture but not... I know historical context is true but I find it hard to believe people are using seamingly valid “syllogism” for the sole sake of duping people into doing horrible things to other people?? What’s going on... the dissonance... is strong... only from a certain prospective can you see the interplay of true intentions... electeonagnetism?? I swear I’m not even a little bit high right now. Seriously. My brain.
Okay, literally, I don’t understand. What did the rhino mean? What did the oiji board mean? I know these questions have already been answered below but... HALP!
wait a minute, these are all the same person
*RABBI FRITZ SHEKELBERG*  my sides
I never really appreciated Natalie's filmmaking  until I was high, but this video man....
We know what doesn't work against whinis. But the question is, what does? Do we just wait for them to launch an actual war and beat them back?
This is ContraPoints' best video for the juxtaposition of the nazi talking points, the Dave Rubin parody, and the disgustingly realistic live chat responses. This is a timeless work of art. This is how genocidal ideology takes hold. It's a beautiful demonstration of how naive centrism gradually shifts to the right. You're too good for YouTube, ContraPoints.
Saul is seeing the Behemoth!
Wow, this is like psycological horror
aaaaaaand subscribed
You have the language of everyone down well
Good god, that ending is genuinely terrifying. I never realized before just how dangerous something like The Rubin Report can be. Bless you, ContraPoints. You're a big reason I was able to save myself from spouting alt-right/white nationalist talking points.
This video is too real
Nice Ionesco/absurdist reference with the Rhinoceros mask.
Thanks for this. Your videos are so needed and important. WE NEED YOU! <3
I dont think someone on the alt right would be convinced by this. It would seem like anti-truth propaganda to them. You should do another video where the Jew does find the right thing to say
I recently came across a random commenter throwing out the Jewish question and I'm sad to say debate is not really for me, although I am political-minded. It's difficult for me to not get emotional with people ruthlessly and uncompassionately spreading such hateful things, and more inportantly, with people like the talk show host.
Everyone always brings up the Holocaust, but I think the most damning aspect of the Nazis is that they started a war which cost 7 million Germans their lives. 7 million Germans died in that war. Nazis stand on a giant pile of dead bodies and proclaim to the world that this is the future we can expect if they're ever allowed into power again.
finally my theatre major allows me to 'get' something
I love your use of surrealism to depict Saul's descent into madness there at the end. I feel that so much lately.
You win by debasing and defacing fascists, not by debating them. They only understand violence. "If only the German state had smashed our movement with utmost urgency and brutality, we would have never seen victory" -Adolf Hitler
Having trouble trying to figure out which one is most representative of Sam Harris.
I Israel was an ethnic state?
Great satire but can you address the points made?
To paraphrase the " pope" Andre Breton this has to have won the golden ring of eternity.
you might be the best youtuber
Why is this broadcasting my literal nightmares? Why do I have nightmares about political discourse? What is this?
This is possibly the scariest video I have ever seen
That hit way too close to home.
Accurate to the fucking tee
the ceo argument should be like just because Obama was black doesn't mean congress or the court was & they fought him tooth & nail.  plus, with jewish folks they're more like latinos but connected through ritual & a better sense of tribe.
good reference of the rhino village play
1:00-1:12 i actually burst out laughing at 2154 at night
Is it just me that sees this as a classical case of "the boy who cried wolf"? For so long, people who describe themselves as "liberals" have been throwing the word Nazi sacrilegiously at so many political opponents simply because they don't conform with liberal ideals. The word Nazi is now overblown and has frankly become a buzz word. Now the word Nazi can no longer be used to criticize actual people who hold views that are axiomatically similar to Nazis.
Is that a fucking Ionesco reference?
So rather than debate an actual alt right member you argue with an easily deconstructable parody of an "alt right" member? Contra, Nazis or Hitlerites, whatever you want to call them, aren't the popular alt right talking points. It's generally agreed among alt righters that Hitlerites are retarded. Debate someone who actually has responded to you. I'd be more impressed.
hahahahahaha what a puff
I dont know what point contra was trying to make with this but I honestly thought they were all making good points, well maybe not the nazi but the back and forth between female dave rubin and the saul
1:12 that face 😂
i love u more than my life
Hates freedom? Is that an IASIP reference?
This video made me sweat and it feels like that was exactly what it was made to do.  "Fritz" and his facial reactions were all spot on.  Seeing him revel in the fact that he gets the centrist to parrot some of his talking points was terrifying and perfectly illustrated your entire point about debating Nazis.  Damn good on you for this video, you're doing great work.  Makes me want to Patreon.
Can someone please tell me what Fritz says when he walks in? Hello, Loita? Loiter?
I like this video, but it rings a bit hollow if you don't call out the fact that communism is also a pervasive and attractive ideology which tends to result in millions of dead people. If anything you seem sympathetic to the communist cause on several occasions in your videos. I know that the Nazi/communist dichotomy is overplayed in current politics, buuuut... I've heard you say you wish that those on the left could adopt the optics, tactics and cohesion that's displayed by the alt right. That's a little freaky.
That guy with the glasses is actually pretty hot. Why are they giving that cutie such a hard time? Leftist tactics, not fair.
Contrapoints still looks like a cross dresser as salzman, lol
Do I spy a reference to Ionesco's Rhinoceros? Nicely done.
And this is where everything falls apart. There is not way to intellectually engage, at all. With debate pointless and the public on the side of the Nazis, what choice is there but to hide or fight?
I cant see how this disproves the alt right.... i was not sure what you were trying till i read the comments
i am so depressed after this i have to watch another:(
after seeing things through a left leaning lens for a while, i think i can actually answer some of these questions and address some the alt-right's stances. this will be a very long comment, so try to bare with me, and if anything i say is not quite accurate or good enough, feel free to let me know.   so the jewish thing is a misunderstanding perpetuated by coincidence and conspiracy theorists who may secretly or even openly be anti-semitic. people who run the media and banks are not problematic for being a specific race, no, they are problematic because they are capitalists.   the "special interest groups" are not strictly jewish, and even if they were, it's not like there's some conspiracy from judaism as a whole. it's a very small niche of rich capitalists and they by far do not even remotely represent the jews by even a fraction of a fraction of a percentile.   okay, the "asian argument for mass immigration" thing, i actually used to wonder that too, but the thing is, this is a trick question the alt-right want to use to justify a white ethnostate, and so the answer to this is not that it's a "good thing" that Japan is xenophobic and extremely hard to immigrate too, no, it's actually that America, the experiment of a free society, was founded with ideas that allowed it to be a melting pot of various race and culture.   the thing about "the left" not complaining that Japan or other asian countries don't do mass immigration is probably because the leftists who talk about egalitarian issues live fucking nowhere near the eastern countries so it's not even vaguely relevant to talk about since it makes more sense to discuss issues in the countries you live in and nearby to.   but i assure you, if more progressives lived in such countries, they probably would be questioning the status quo there also, but just because Japan or something does something a certain way, doesn't mean that's automatically a good thing and it doesn't mean that is the only way to do something.   as for the black pride thing, this took me a while to understand, so it's possible some people who border on the alt-right legitimately want to know the answer, and i have the answer. terms like "pride" and "privilege" are not necessarily supposed to be taken literally in the context of like, well, let's unpack this one bit at a time...   "pride" in the context of like LGBTQ+ and like black pride, etc, the term pride is not designating "accomplishment" it is instead basically a rally to say that "i may be a minority, and a lot of people may assume badly of me due to my skin, but i will not let them put me down, i will not hate myself or be afraid, i am proud" sort of thing.   and the term "privilege" which i still am iffy about using that word, but let's roll with it... having privilege is being in an area where you are seen as "normal" or uncontestable in some way. i realize that some people from the alt-right or skeptics in general will say "well what about black only college funds? what about anti-discrimination laws?" well... have to unpack that a bit too.   it's not inherently racist to "have pride in being white" but it is kinda dumb because the majority of society is white in the west and the majority of public opinion on "white people" tends to be overall positive, so by saying you are proud to be white is just kind of pointless because it shows how insecure you might be about your "race"   now, i do want to get things to a point where black people won't need black pride events and stuff, but even if the law says something, that doesn't mean society as a whole is on the same page on things, and there is racial tension and animosity, admittedly, from all sides, of course, but to make things better is not to further separate, but instead try to come together and learn from each other.   okay, few more things to touch up on. holocaust denial is retarded, everyone who does this should stop, just fucking stop, and this goes for Cenk from TYT also, that fucker has denied the Armenian holocaust for the majority of his life and has never explicitly apologized or conceded from this denial position.   as for stuff like Antifa and BLM, their groups as a whole are not bad and they generally try to keep things civil, though obviously they want to be heard, so they can be a bit aggressive and loud, but the ones in their groups who go off destroying property and inciting violence are niche subgroups, and don't represent the movements as a whole.   i will admit, some of the more known names in these groups tend to dismiss the negative actions within their group, implicitly approving of bad behavior causing damage and harm to others, and this obviously is not correct, and this ingroup bias is a toxic element within those spheres, but you could argue the same kind of ingroup bias exists in many police departments, so while i am not excusing either side, this is a problem within human nature in general that we must always keep in check.   final thing, and this is just more of me asking a question now for Natalie/Contra fans... what does the rhino represent?
OK.  That was weird.  Weirdly entertaining.  Weirdly informative.  And, just a little bit weirdly weird too.
I just like looking at the crazy “conservative” commenters that come out of the woodwork in ContraPoints videos. To be truthful, I didn’t actually believe that real people believed in some of that shit. Note: I am well aware that there are reasonable conservatives. I will never let the voices of a few crazies condemn an ENTIRE party. I just think it’s fucking hilarious, but also a little disconcerting that someone would actually believe that drivel.
I have ethno-nationalistic leanings but I enjoy your videos, pretty funny. You do a good job.
nice masive strawmanning of everything you don't like .
Your best video to date imo. The allegory is so fucking on point that is depressing.
Not all white nationalists are fascist and not all fascists are white nationalists
Frankly Astonishing!
"Sometimes people don't want to hear the truth because they don't want their illusions destroyed"
9:41 — "What could I have said to change their minds?" Well, you haven't said much. Almost no arguments came from you.
Cool video style, i don't get half of it though.
The live chat ads so much to this video. Genius. Also I can’t believe you made a Rhinoceros video.
"That's Reich!"  I'm losing it, i'm so glad i found this channel
Wait is this just a transcription of the Rubin Report with the names changed? Oh and absent the non fascist guy.
This is brilliant stuff. More power to you.
Boom... Awesome!
sehr sauberes Deutsch, woher kommt's?   Ich habe ja die Erfahrung gemacht, dass man Absurdität fast nur mit Absurdität bekämpfen kann. Man gewinnt zwar nicht, aber es ist wenigstens lustig.
My only complaint is that I am not capable of reading the live feed comments and the usernames quick enough.
Point taken. Well done.
Ï SEE What yo did thère !
Contra's performances are so freakin masterful... even though these characters are all cartoons on some level, they also feel entirely real (which in itself is a terrifying comment on the world as it stands), with the platitudes from Fritz delivered in a calm tone clearly convincing the 'internet public' as shown on the brilliant tweet feed. Having said that, I take issue with Contra making Fritz fetish fuel. As in, I need to not find Fritz alluring. So like... stop that. Stop creating shtup-fuel when I'm trying to be a level-minded queer feminist.
You're hot as heck.
THE MEDIA          THE BANKS
Just for the record, not everyone with "Mjolnir" in their handle is an alt-right troll with an IQ slightly greater than their waist size.  But yeah... Most are... <sigh>
You are great!
One pattern I've noticed in alt-right rhetoric is that it every now and again plays to universalist ideas. Take for example the whole "If Japan for the Japanese is OK, why is France for the French and [country] for the [countr]ish not OK?" — the underlying premise is that the same principle should hold for everyone. Either "[country] for the [countr]ians" is OK for everyone or it's OK for no one.  I think the left is at its best and most leftest when it is universalist. Qua its universalism, it agrees with the claim that "[country] for the [country]ese" is either OK for everyone or it's OK for no one", by taking the position that it's not OK for anyone, including the Japanese.  I'm no public relations expert, but I think one wins more converts (and/or loses fewer) by tackling the other side's arguments head on, rather than dodging their talking points. To answer Saul's question, "[what could I have said to persuade them]?", you could have said "It's not OK when the Japanese do it". Saul could say "I disapprove _strongly_ of 'Kill Whitey' and 'Fry them like bacon', but BLM also makes the following _good_ points: [blah blah blah]".  At 5:20, "Host: [the list of names of Jewish CEOs must be evidence of something, right? I'm just following the facts...] | Saul: How about the fact that the last time this madness took hold, [bad things happened]". The consequences of believing the Nazis is not evidence one way or another about whether the claims about a Jewish conspiracy are true or false. Saul's statement is a red herring. Instead of doing this, Saul could have trotted out the excellent arguments made in another comment on the video why a list of names is not in itself evidence of a Jewish conspiracy. Instead of avoiding the bullshit arguments made by Nazis, Saul could have explained _why_ they are bullshit.
Perfect parody of Dave Rubin and the Alt-right, quite brilliant really. I enjoy Rubin but I see the irony that his unlimited free-speech stance poses when he's basically promoting extremists ideas by giving them a platform on his show.
Can you please post a reading list?
fritz's face at 6:53 gave me nightmares
I feel like the rhino represents something I'm missing...
To be fair....Fritz crushed competition. Just calling someone a Nazi is really not an argument. Sure, Fritz actually is a nazi. But Fritz keep talking about stuff and our good doctor does nothing to refute arguments.
genious :D
Triggered SJW deer won't even debate how delicious they are with wolves. Deer hate free speech.
Dein Deutsch ist recht gut. Cool Video
The Jew   by Dr. Joseph Goebbels.  "Everything is discussed openly in Germany and every German claims the right to have an opinion on any and all questions. One is Catholic, the other Protestant, one an employee, the other an employer, a capitalist, a socialist, a democrat, an aristocrat. There is nothing dishonorable about choosing one side or the other of a question. Discussions happen in public and where matters are unclear or confused one settles it by argument and counter argument. But there is one problem that is not discussed publicly, one that it is delicate even to mention: the Jewish question. It is taboo in our republic.  The Jew is immunized against all dangers: one may call him a scoundrel, parasite, swindler, profiteer, it all runs off him like water off a raincoat. But call him a Jew and you will be astonished at how he recoils, how injured he is, how he suddenly shrinks back: “I’ve been found out.”  One cannot defend himself against the Jew. He attacks with lightning speed from his position of safety and uses his abilities to crush any attempt at defense.  Quickly he turns the attacker’s charges back on him and the attacker becomes the liar, the troublemaker, the terrorist. Nothing could be more mistaken than to defend oneself. That is just what the Jew wants. He can invent a new lie every day for the enemy to respond to, and the result is that the enemy spends so much time defending himself that he has no time to do what the Jew really fears: to attack. The accused has become the accuser, and loudly he shoves the accuser into the dock. So it always was in the past when a person or a movement fought the Jew. That is what would happen to us as well were we not fully aware of his nature, and if we lacked the courage to draw the following radical conclusions:  1. One cannot fight the Jew by positive means. He is a negative, and this negative must be erased from the German system or he will forever corrupt it. 2. One cannot discuss the Jewish question with the Jews. One can hardly prove to a person that one has the duty to render him harmless. 3. One cannot allow the Jew the same means one would give an honest opponent, for he is no honorable opponent. He will use generosity and nobility only to trap his enemy. 4. The Jew has nothing to say about German questions. He is a foreigner, an alien, who only enjoys the rights of a guest, rights that he always abuses. 5. The so-called religious morality of the Jews is no morality at all, rather an encouragement to betrayal. Therefore, they have no claim to protection from the state. 6. The Jew is not smarter than we are, rather only cleverer and craftier. His system cannot be defeated economically — he follows entirely different moral principles than we do. It can only be broken through political means. 7. A Jew cannot insult a German. Jewish slanders are but badges of honor for a German opponent of the Jews. 8. The more a German person or a German movement opposes the Jew, the more valuable it is. If someone is attacked by the Jews, that is a sure sign of his virtue. He who is not persecuted by the Jews, or who is praised by them, is useless and dangerous. 9. The Jew evaluates German questions from the Jewish standpoint. As a result, the opposite of what he says must be true. 10. One must either affirm or reject anti-Semitism. He who defends the Jews harms his own people. One can only be a Jewish lackey or a Jewish opponent. Opposing the Jews is a matter of personal hygiene.  These principles give the anti-Jewish movement a chance of success. Only such a movement will be taken seriously by the Jews, only such a movement will be feared by them.  The fact that he shouts and complains about such a movement therefore is only a sign that it is right. We are therefore delighted that we are constantly attacked in the Jewish gazettes. They may shout about terror. We answer with Mussolini’s familiar words: “Terror? Never! It is social hygiene. We take these individuals out of circulation just as a doctor does to a bacterium."    The Jews are our misfortune.
Even thought they are completely wrong they still find a way to persuade people, thays why you should only take direct action, right?
Ach du liebe... Ein Nashorn 8:47
I'm pretty new to your channel and I was so fucking confused until I got the rhinoceros reference and then I probably laughed for a full minute, I truly felt like Berenger haha
*Well made. Problem is: It's an unintended double-sided satire.* It's verbose and pointed enough to make a non-leftist viewer understand how leftists perceive this whole issue, but it also shows they can't cope with the fact that a growing number of people doesn't subscribe to the underlying self-understanding of the leftist worldview anymore. That's what happens when you thought you'd get an unchallenged free ride and are suddenly confronted with the unpleasant realisation that all you have at your disposal to defend your views, are superficial talking points, and the omni-present assumption that those who oppose you are engaging in perfidious double-talk, misrepresenting themselves and their motives in order to fool the naive public into accepting their ways...  Much like those special needs religionists who claim that atheists are just trolls who deny all the "obvious evidence" for god's existence and that this must be so because they secretly hate him and because they just want to sin.  That's one hell of a delusion to suffer from.  *Let me help you and tell you why you're constantly being defeated in the marketplace of ideas:* _"Great minds discuss ideas, average minds discuss events, small minds discuss people"_ - There's much truth in this quote. Today's left, you, is obsessed with letting people and events dictate their agenda, while largely avoiding the discussion of fundamental ideas in the public forum. And the public takes notice of that.  Yes, we know you love Hillary, David Hogg and his #neveragain hashtag, the Daily Show and Hollywood's moral posturing. Yes, we know you hate Trump, Peterson, the alt-right, the alt-light, the Nazis, the Centrists, innocuous cartoon frogs and hand signs, the police, the patriarchy, the NRA, the Wall, Wall Street, the Russians, the Jew..sorry, "Zionists", and whatnot.  And then you act seriously suprised when a simple slogan like MAGA has a magnitude more driving force than your pathetic collection of closet monsters? You better unf*ck yourselves real quick, folks, or else...
you know you're hashtag-transition-goals when you crossdress as a man and don't pass
In case anyone is wondering, the blurb when Fritz enters says "Fritz, would gladly speak with you about the Jew questions"
Proud of myself for catching the Ionesco ref!
4:11 Eugène Ionesco reference, I like it.
Even Freedomtoons parodied Dave Rubin agreeing with his guests.
FRITZ WON
This is one of the best videos on YouTube :D Love this channel.
Is this Dave Rubin Satire somehow?!
i have to admit, as a non-left, white hetero sexual and philosophical german, this is funfunfun!
So, good.  Very scary.
This video along with "Le Génocide, mais relax" (watch?v=u1z16qyRxLs) portray the banalisation of far-right ideologies and their dehumanising effects terrifyingly well
This is my favorite YT video of 2018 so far I think. Including all of the other contra videos i've been bingeing for the past 48 hours.   I live in Baltimore, so I'm wondering: does anyone know if Contra is okay being approached for an autograph or thanks or a photo if we spot her?
This is the first time i caught a literary reference before it was explained to me black-on-white, great Ionesco nod!
je mehr rechts du bist, desto deutscher sprichst du ;D  oh verdammt
Holy shit. That was beautiful.
Just discovered your channel today and have binge-watched several videos. This is my fave so far though,.The viewer responses are so true to life with those I've seen on some live streams.
Brilliant!
Oh hello, Dave Rubin. *wink* *wink*
The german is so good that it frightens me
Contra i love the details you put in your videos <3 they are jaw dropping
What is actually a valid counterpoint to this argument that goes "Why aren't asian countries expected to accept immigration just like Europe and the other parts of the Western world are?" I mean, I don't accept that one but I myself cannot think of a good response to object to this Alt-right narrative...
The "Live Viewer Response" bit is so fucking real.
The Democrats want race mixing to dilute the black people..... Sicilians are giving birth to blondes,,, the latinos are giving birth to blondes even the arabs are..... all these millions of people will be white again... and so will your great great grandchildren if you decide to mate with whites....  beige only gets lighter ... not darker ....
HAHAHA was that the Godzilla cry?
8:15 and on sounds like a monologue pulled straight from a Sargon video.
A perfect illustration of liberals and lefties' inability to see those who disagree with them as human wow
Dein Deutsch ist wirklich gut ^^
brilliant referencd to Eugene Ionesco's Rhinoceros
Christ a Rhinoserous!
lol the terf cameo
You play these characters so well that I forgot I wasn't watching three people having a debate and got really mad at Jackie and Fritz.
yeah, I can't believe people would ever want to hear other people's opinions.
i hate dumb lefties but luv yr vids
Contrapoints are you a supporter of the buccaneers or is that just cool iconography?  This is the make or break question for me to go to modern equivalent of kinkos and put a poster of you on my wall, of course the Nazi you is my favorite look.
i die every time the nazi slips up and speaks german 😂
I'm confused about the gender of the actor I'm confused about the political leaning I'm confused about the rhino creature What is going on ?!
Is no one going to address that feminist rando who walked in?
Ahh an openly marxist revolutionary  makes a video expressing concern about genocide... this is so.. I dont know
Pepe
Gold
Communist's/socialist's killed more then 100 Million people and imprisoned for about 40 years several Million people and countries. Now communists are using the same tactic's as the Nazi's they changed only the skin color and heritage. I see no difference between both they are evil and stupid and they have no problem murdering people in an instance... Freedom of thinking and expressing your self is essential to be independend and able to to distinguish between good and bad.
It's cute watching all you f*gs squirm an writhe, knowing you simply CANNOT debate the alt right and make excuse after excuse why you "can't" :)
Lmao this is so good hahaahah
What does the rhino represent?
I have to say, as a counter-semitic fascist, this has me rolling and clutching my sides.
Damn, clicked on this Dave Rubin video by mistake
The only time you clowns actually debate the alt-right you get so thoroughly BTFO'd that you either have to leave the internet or refuse to every engage. E.g. Kraut and Sargon. Don't pretend like you ever have or will know what debating the alt-right is like because you're obviously too much of a coward to do so.
Damn your German is so good :D
This is strange I don't understand it I mean I do but you get the point
The rhino is a reference to a play, isn't it? Something about a guy being turned into a rhino. The absurdity therein, and how society just accepts it as normal and moves on
Thank you, as a Jew living in Germany, this captures my current emotional state better than I could express. I am beyond being angry at the current situation. It's more like a perpetual state of disbelief and subtle horror. Again, thanks for capturing this so perfectly.
Killed 1.2 milionen Iraker fur eure scheiss freiheicht
Thumbs up for the Godzilla roar!!!
This is one of the best things I have ever seen !
That actress in the middle is hot
I mean, what if there are legitimately scared people who just want their future generations to appreciate some of where Americans and their ideals came from? But then, I suppose we ought to all desire a Hispanic ethnostate with Catholic theocracy if that was the case. Or if you really want to get technical we can slug it out like ancestral apes. I'm still not convinced a "white" culture movement is any more wrong than a Muslim, "black" or otherwise. Good video, though.
OMG Ionesco reference, instant like
I enjoy your grateful attitude and your self awareness
A rhino when referring to a Republican, also RINO, stands for Republican in name only, which means they hold the view of democrats. Are you saying democrats, or left wing views in general are racist? I would agree with you there. Thanks for the video though as it and the comments have given me ammo to use against the people on my (the right's) who hold this toxic belief
Way to say all Germans are nazis, cunt.
Wait wait wait, so the alt right wants each race to have their own ethno-state. But they also don't want white people to be kicked out of South Africa, and for there to be an ethno-state there. So every race deserves and ethno-state but at the same time, not every race deserves an ethno-state according to the alt right.
This is hilarious and so on point. Jackie, your next guess should be Rave Dubin.
I still think you should start with showing them they are wrong and why their argument doesn't make sense, it's not hard to do
As a German I gotta say that your German is just beautiful! You´re not a native speaker, right? Where did you learn it? In college, do you have relatives that are natives speakers. I love your videos!
Dave Rubin is left wing just like How I'm not a racist, racism is crime and crime is for black people
Dein deutsch ist wirklich nicht schlecht!  Mein Kompliment! :D
how do you always manage to make content thats so accurate?? its incredible. also - more of saul please! as a gay jewish leftist, hes amazing.
I love this video. This has got to be a favorite.  But I don't get the last part. And I even went through the trouble of decrypting the ouija message:  fyrrcref njnxr rgreany qnlyvtug fuvarf  ....what the f am I reading?
Your German is impeccable! 👌
Holy shit this video has more straw then a fucking barnyard
I love all your videos that I've seen so far but this was on another level of entertainment. Great, great stuff. Keep up the good work.
This is fantastic.
Get out of here Dave Ruben
Sureeeeee, achieving an ethno-state non-violently. I can't believe that people buy that crap.
Aaaa you're really good at making videos that make me wanna hit myself in the face repeatedly
Haha, your acting is really good! I recently found your channel and it's both interesting and entertaining. Great work!
Male dominance of senior positions is used as evidence of patriarchy. So wouldn’t it follow that Jewish dominance of banking and the media is evidence of something? (For clarity, I think both are conspiracy theories)
God I relate to Saul too much. this is such a good video. hope I can get past the "staring in abject horror" of debate with fascists.
Best Rubin Report ever.
Scratch a liberal and a fascist bleeds.
Oh look, It's JonTron
I guess I can see how some people would see centrists this way but it is still a bit disappointing. That being said, this was still very well done, I don't agree with this point of view but I still can't deny that this is one of the more honest minds I've seen on this site.  Still, at this point it must be said that this hasn't aged too well. Now we have Sargon and his like laughing away at the alt right with "we wuz kangs" jokes. They just don't like identity politics from the left or the right.
Even know I’m a centrist your impression of us is actually so on point 😂
That Lonesco reference was absolutely perfectly timed
Literally zero factual arguments against the alt-right
All Marxism Socialism leads to NationalSocial = NAZIS.Hell even my grandfather predicted that it will come back in a different shape.
Yo i want to secure a future for all children whites included does that make me a nazi
This sums up everything. A hateful group that wants to purge the west of Jews, blacks, Muslims, Hispanics, and more masquerades itself as rational and common sense, evidence contrary to their views, basic human rights and being not-racist and sexist as irrational and a threat to the species. They brainwash the general millennial public and edgy teens through jokes, memes and ideals seductive to the white working class to turn them against the fact that people are people no matter how different. And when faced with opposition, say that it's just free speech and that they are being oppressed of free speech, basically the same thing that they accuse the left of.
I would love it if this was feature film length, cuz it's so good I don't want it to end..
So if I understand correctly, the dumb masses are too easy to manipulate, therefore nazi must be suppressed.  But once you've agreed to that, you've just made a deal with the devil. Communism must be suppressed too, after all it killed 110 million people, that's even worse than nazis !   You basically make it fair game for your opponents to also give you the nazi treatment by saying your ideas will lead to devastation.
Fantastic Ionesco reference.
as a muslim, it's undebatable that the jews have used usury and corrupt banking practices to enslave many diverse populations. ignoring this is frankly idiotic. i agree that racism is and ethnonationalism is unethical/ridiculous, but be that as it may they are STILL using debt to enslave people. if we are not free to speak out against this exploitation does that not mean that you're protecting this exploitation practice?
What’s the music at 0:34?
this is where progressives fail miserably keep in mind debating them is not for their sake you will never chang their mind but the audiences mind is what matters. you have to point out their  hypocritical views you can't beat them with facts, truth be told alot of the facts are acually true, the facts alt righters use are up interpition though, the jewish guestion can be fought off relativly easy, they have a tendency to go  to stuff like iq as a reasoning for "white" people being the the so called superior race, but pointing out that there are a couple of different types of iq test and they all  serve different purposes and one is not better the other proves there is more than one reason any race might be doing better than another and calmly suggesting  that jews might be the superior race because of their success throws them of track, it works talking about asians too, but honestly the best route you can take is pointing out the similarities to  sjws in terms of their collective mindset it really pisses them off the only awnser to that i have ever gotten when asking what makes them any different than, for example black nationalist is white nationalist arbraturily claim they are right, you kind of have to play dirty debating them, but it has to be done there are plenty of holes in their reasoning but if you aren't calm and precise about what you are saying it gets derailed guick into a shit storm, debating them is like debating a communist except they are acually decent at it. proggressives will never be able to  acually beat their points because they always get mad call people racist because they can't prove the alt right are racist without inevitibly implacating theirself as being racist you won't win over a crowd, going at their points from an individualist perspective its not hard to see where they fail, they fail at the point same point socialist do, they assume their plans can be acheived peacefully, and that they are helping bring peace in an otherwise violent hateful world, same as communist do, but they fail to understand,      A. alot of people will resist                  B. those who would resist would have to be executed because of otherwise there will be no peace ever if they live                                  C. new crowds of resisters will always exist, and you have to decide if they should die for it.                                           it has happened many times and a lot of people always die.you can't avoid it, and this is where alt righters fail the test almost as bad as progressives do.
I love the sie/Sie prounoun joke.
Have you ever seen a Jew Jitsu?
Why did you not debate an alt-right but rather a strawman?
I have no idea of what point or ideology your trying to show but i liked the debate and play.
Wow, I found myself being a Jackie Jackson with a "be calm and rational" comment on Twitter. I still think the truth SHOULD prevail. It shouldn't be that difficult to refute a Nazi's argument and people really should do their research before following an ideology.  But I can see that sometimes the calm and collected argument is more convincing and can attract people to a false belief. However, I don't think all the blame goes to journalists  for bringing them on their platform
Thank you, you have exposed your vile woman and children hating NAZI agenda.   NASTY, WHITE, WHINY PRIVILEDGED MAN.   FUCKING DISGUSTING
FUCKING DISGUSTING,  A WHINY WHITE PRIVILEDGED DUDE WHINING ABOUT HIS FAKE SUFFERING.. SICK SICK SICK
Poor reasonable Saul :(
That's Dave in pretty!
If they speak, we ignore them. If they rally, we punch them. And if they try to seize power, we kill them.  Our grandfathers and great-grandfathers had to kill Nazis once in order to protect other people from the threat they posed. And I personally, a retired Marine gunnery sergeant, have no qualms whatsoever in following in my grandpa's footsteps should that need ever arise again. I don't give a flying fuck if they're just some poor ignorant twenty-something nitwits that have been seduced by an evil ideology, as, the same exact thing could be said about most of the poor Muslim fellas I had to drop throughout my career too. You never feel good about killing another human being, as it's such a tremendous waste of life; but you shouldn't beat yourself up too much over it either, especially after the deed is already done. Some people just didn't get dealt a good hand in life, geographically, economically, mentally; and so they occasionally end up getting preyed upon by parasitic ideologies that turn them into monsters, as both Nazism and Islamism tend to do. As long as there are still people like me out there in the world, people willing to risk their lives in order to protect innocent folks from harm, fascism will NEVER be an issue again. Thanks for taking the time to read an old Marine's thoughts on the subject.  Gunnery Sergeant Robert A. Miller (Ret.) 1st Battalion, 7th Marines
Holy shit an american winking at Ionesco
a lot of lynchian undertones
A great take down of Dave Rubin.
"SLEEPERS AWAKE ETERNAL DAYLIGHT SHINES"
Holy shit this video is confusing. Are you a sympathizer for white nationalism? I feel like you are trying to convey a message but the message is wrong and so it just looks like you actually sympathize with Nazis.
I think i‘ll have to look up that patreon thingy of yours and spend a buck or two! Chapeau Madame!
the man is ugly
And this is why ad-hominem is a logical fallacy.
Depressingly scary in its accuracy, down to Fritz's creepy smug smile. Very well done.
Eugene Ionesco reference. Mmmmm.... :) I love you.
Wow. You deserve way more subscribers than you've got.
4:28 I can see her tripod
Looks like a Dave Rubin interview.
Can someone explain the rhino?
Thumbs up for the German
The Ottomans... whut's dat?
directed by David Lynch
I hate the live chat. I know its meant to be bad but I've seen enough of that shit in real life to hate it. Beautifully done.
The Interveiwer reminds me of my brother ... god i cannot deal with him to any degree...
Would you consider going on The Rubin Report, Contra? I think that would make an interesting discussion.
quality!
lol *wth is a racist canard?* I'm seeing a duck with a pillowcase over its head quacking the n word while its ducklings follow behind it lighting stuff on fire. I know I know... google is my friend. And racism is never funny... even when it's a duck  :$
I love you Contra!!
"sie" pronouns lmfao
Your German pronunciation is actually so good wtf
Victim of Duty?
I'm sure the rhino mask was a reference to something, but it was totally lost on me...
Rubin destroyed
Good German Though
Anyone else get the 20th century french literature reference? Anyone...? Rhinocéros de Ionesco...? Well i thought the passivness towards nazi ideas present in the mass is a great reference to an obscure piece of the theatre of the absurd thankyouverymuch  (When you sound pretentious,but it feels good)
I love contrapoints <3
Question: - If the reason we should prevent Nazism spreading (not advocating for it, just taking what was said here, and Socialists are evil so..) is that the ideology killed millions of people... Shouldn't we take the same attitude towards Socialism (e.g. Bangladesh, Russia, China, Venezuela, Laos, Vietnam, Cuba, Cambodia ).. Even havens that Socialists use to justify their beliefs like Sweden have over 15% of the country who believe that there is a Jewish problem.. So should we condemn socialism as much/more than we condemn Nazis considering 12 million died to Nazis whilst Socialism is nearer 100 million... Not saying Nazis are good, just saying communists/socialists are as bad/worse
Can someone please explain what the Ouija board was spelling out? I've tried perusing the comments but I can't find anything even related to it. Thank you in advance.
oh man that grinnnnnnnnnnn
How many times did that jew say anne frank.... lololol
contrapoints your saul costume gives such intense butch vibes and im gay :(
So why shouldn't we deplatform anyone on the hard left, using the justification that the last time that particular madness took hold 100 million people died? The alt right is tiny, it's very rare for an alt-right channel to break 10k subs, and I bet there are a lot of people like me who subscribe to channels across the political spectrum out of curiosity, maybe even a majority.   I understand your arguments, I just disagree that people like Milo are a gateway drug to fascism, I think that holocaust denial tends to be more prevalent in countries where it's illegal, I don't think fascism has this magical attractive quality, and I do think that if all ideas have equally good PR teams then the good ones will prevail.   On the other hand, I love your content and I have a massive crush on you, and I do think you're bringing nuance to the discussion even if you're wrong. Keep up the good work
This is some of my favorite theatre.
This is like political Kids In The Hall
Make a  commitment to non-violence, Vegan.
8:12 Godwin's law isn't about attacking the validity of an argument on the basis that it's a nazi analogy: it's about a principle discerned that the longer an online debate goes on, the more likely it is that someone will draw a comparison to the Nazi.   The fallacy, reductio at hitlerum, is a derivative of argumentum ad absurdum where one draws a link between a position held and a position held by Hitler to conclude that the position is Nazi in nature. It's like saying "I have nails, a house has nails, therefore I am a house."   The reason it's called "reductio" is because one narrows down one aspect of the discourse as a mean of discrediting the entire discourse which, by calling out Godwin's law, is exact what Fritz is doing. It would be like saying that this whole comment is invalid because I used a colon instead of a semi-colon on the first sentence and that's poor grammar.
The counterpoint to 5:21 is the sociological error which conflates the concepts 'group' and 'institution'.  A 'group' is a collective of people who all share a generalized identity but are not bound together by any shared goal and may also have vastly different ways of expressing that identity.  An 'institution' on the other hand is an organized collective of people who may or may not have a common 'group' who have organized together to accomplish a shared goal.  So while the individuals Fritz mention are indeed part of the same 'group', this is no evidence that they are collaborating to accomplish something together.
Why are they all so sexy?
For a more "blunt" version of this video, check out SMBC's sketch called "Both Sides"
your videos are amazing oh my god
You are a disgusting human being who stramans like crazy because you hate the alt right has the truth. watch some jarred Taylor and learn how things really are.
This just draws more people to the truth of the alt right:) Thank you for the free adversting.
cool video and you made a good point about anti-jewish conspiracies now i ask how are anti-white male conspiracies any better? or are all white people acountable for the actions of 1 specific small country in europe? even if said white persons own family literaly faught and died fighting said country?
I am impressed with her German. (And super glad that most right wing people here (in actual Germany) are not nearly as charming, eloquent or good looking)
I'm so attracted to Saul right now. Also you're pretty
i dont understand the rhino thing entirely, can someone explain?
How can you be a "fellow" if you identify as a woman?
Moral of the story: Dave Rubin is a fucking moron.
Wow I honestly wanted to not like this but it was hilarious... Well done
Why does the tapestry flip over when we get Jackie closeups? #illuminaticonfirmed #orsomeshit
Oh, a rhinoceros!
This is likely pretty pointless, and I probably don't have enough discussion points under my belt to have a totally clear understanding of the entirety of the situation, but as someone who's been on the receiving end of this kind of characterization [as the "Jackie Jackson" character], I'd say that you're painting at least some of the idk, classical liberal/centrist perspective as more naive than you're giving credit to.  As you acknowledged in one of your other videos, genuine white nationalists etc run around spewing shit in a coded way that some genuinely not-fascist people pick up on without knowing the underlying subtext hidden therein, and because of how it's presented, they see some credibility there. As a human being with a fucking soul, I don't defend the Nazi/-insert most recent term here- perspective at all, and if I can see that someone is spouting that type of ignorant shit unironically, I would definitely agree that they shouldn't have a platform. However, I don't believe fascists are in the majority, and I don't see the problem in trying to make sure that someone isn't a fascist before calling them one.  It's been happening that innocent, albeit ignorant, people are getting branded as Nazis/bigots/etc, when I think we can agree that that type of thinking has been primarily in the fringe until recently, but even now, I'm quite sure they're still in the minority.  With this in mind, it seems counter-intuitive to imply that if someone is spouting points that a fascist might've used to hide themselves as sane, sympathetic and just misunderstood members of society, which again, your other video acknowledges, that they themselves are in fact bigots/fascists/Nazis as well. I've seen far too often that this is the sentiment that's being shared by many centrists, liberals who just want the freedom to be edgy and shit, and naturally, of course, anyone who's conservative as a result of coming in contact with too many so-called "SJWs" [a label I generally reserve for the hypocritically intolerant, and will apply the term to people in the middle and right just as quickly as the left if I see the same brand of double-standard hypocrisy being spouted by them]. IMO, this "accuse first, ask questions mmmnever" approach only plays right into the hands of those very fascists any sane person wants to shut up because they'll then be able to point at these instances to justify their bigoted perspectives, and naive people will see what they're saying and think they've got a legit point to make.  If more SJWs had your approach, at least given what I've seen of your videos, which have been really well done and you have a great sense of humor and I appreciate seeing this side of the argument from someone who doesn't sound like a self-aggrandizing, morally righteous asshat with talking points that rival a zealous Christian's too eerily for my comfort, then I don't think they'd be dismissed nearly as much as they have been lately. I think that classical liberals/left-leaning centrists challenging the extremist left is a good thing, just as I think the moderate right/right-leaning centrists should be self-checking their extremists, and I also think it's good to have people like you keeping centrists/classicals on their toes to not be too naive about things without jumping at their throats, which, as I said before, has been what I perceive to be the main criticism that most classicals/left-of-center folks have been criticizing [or feel like they've been criticizing]. Yes, they might have some ignorance and pick up some coded fascist points, or even point them out of their own accord, but without intending the fascist undertones, but it's important to not cannibalize them, and I think too many far-left people are forgetting this and this is objectively hurting their goals and helping the fascists. That would be one of my very few critiques of the far-left.
I wonder how at the same time number of Jews COs is not a proof of malicious conspiracy but a number of men COs somehow is.
I love how you can play a sensible but baffled Jewish intellectual and a parodical over the top femme Nazi dominatrix at the same time. This is truly brilliant acting.
This is literally the Rubin Report
I like the content but also find your videographer skills above my subs average ! thanks
Well I'm going to lie down in the middle of the road now.  You have proven beyond a doubt just how fucked America is.
Poor Saul....this was really good...and kind of scary. It got me pretty anxious.
Your german is damn good :D Thank you so much for this great video, I love the characters - can't stop laughing! Political discourse has never been that awesome. Well but the underlying truth of this video is sad  and frustrating
excellent
This series is the only worthwhile art made in the past 43 years
Beautifully done
Hi, new subscriber here, loving your videos! Just binged on a bunch of them. You're extremely smart. Also love the fact you have a Philosophy background, since I majored in Phil too. I'm so tired of arguing with the alt-right, being gaslit constantly, but I refuse to have someone show me a duck and tell me it's a pigeon! Keep up the good fight. Now back to my binge and wine... :)
See this is the thing. The alt-right has tapped into the big boner we have for suave rationalist helped in no small part by Hitchens. Leftists such as myself believe in the common human decency being prevalent. Sadly this is not the case. Hence the outrage, however we need to tap this cold calm macho thing too if we need to stop the blade inside the candy ripping us to shreds from the inside out.
This video is the perfect demonstration of the Left's inability to adequately oppose the fascist right wing.  We want to fight fascists in the same way that we would among ourselves; with reason, logic, science, and debate.  That isn't going to work against Fascism.  Debunk all their talking points that you wish, they never mattered to them anyway.  They make up their own junk science to muddy the waters.  They will parse the most insignificant details and create a logical syllogism to make it seem like their position is rational; even reasonable.  Fascists revel in debate because it brings them legitimacy and a platform to spread their message to an audience that they could normally never reach.    In other words, modern day fascism is taking the ideals of the American Left and using it against them.  In order to have an honest exchange of ideas, you have to have both parties acting in good faith; and the fascist right wing is not a good faith actor by any stretch of the imagination.  The left is the only side playing by the rules and when you are the only one following the rules, you're just a chump.  TLDR is that rational public debate is insufficient to fight fascism because fascists enter the debate in bad faith.  You cannot have honest debate with duplicitous culture warriors whose agenda is to spread propaganda and attract converts.
wow you definitely hit the heart of how frustrating these conversations can be with those that claim "neutrality", and how it seems like everything alt right and nationalists say is met with little critical thought and seems to fit perfectly into the cognitive pegs of other people's minds in ways you'd never of imagined. "what could i have said to change their minds" at the end really spoke to me. thanks pal
Wait who plays Saul? Is Saul another clone of you?
You're completely wrong. But love the video. Leftists are getting violent because their lives are threatened? Lol. Ive heard you complain that the alt right motivation is basically fear at heart. Wouldn't you say that's very much your and the leftists motivation also? Again. Cracking video.
Nice. Special compliments on your pronunciation of German.
"Let this fine fellow bring her wares..." Oh goodness.
Holy shit, I couldn't even make it halfway through.  So uncomfortable.
It's like watching Fox News.
OH MY GOD the rhinoceros reference is killing me
If you're wondering what's with the rhino masks, as I did, it's an homage to Eugene Ionesco.
Fritz looks like a Deathstars cosplayer.
what play?
Fascist snowflake lmao!!!
That is exactly how far-right media outlets sound. They disguise their stupid, unsupported propaganda with logic and reason. I'm not buying into that type of bullshit.
Lol idiots watched this video and thought the nazi had wonderful arguments. The irony.
I got a Nicolas Winding Refn vibe from the rhino scenes
Alt-Right Tranny here......hate you...very much.
Most of your videos are funny but this one actually made me really uncomfortable. You nailed Richard Spencer's mannerisms and debate style, the internet comments were revealing what the people they're speaking to are hearing, and the Ionesco reference was eerie because of how applicable it is.
As a first time viewer... What was up with the Rhino?
>she's quite clearly a _nazi_ can't you _na zi_ that?
Saul's eyebrows are just a little too nice to be believable
Wow, this is incredibly accurate.
Sad truth is moderates are too crusty and boring to win anything, case in point; Ben Carson
Because white kids don't deserve a future. Not very far from saying that no kids deserve a future. It was an entertaining video, although it never presented any counter arguments just some sound and clothes and video effects that somehow invalidate the arguments.  And stuff like "how can you say that". Also I couldn't help but notice the carpet on the wall.  Black with that devil worship symbol.
That's a well done video, but my take away is that you have no counter arguments.
this video is amazing, although i don't get the rhino reference lmao
The live comments kill me :D
I must say, Nazi Contra is pretty smooth
If i hadnt seen this guy's other videos i wouldn't even know if this was intended to be pro alt-right or not. Did anyone actually think saul was making the good points here? Seriously?  Believe it or not, it's you guys we see as the crazy people, just as much as you and aparently this video shows you see us that way.  The difference is we're right, you're unobjective emotion-led, "crazy" people. I guess seeing people turn into rhinos when you hear something like this is a good portrayal of the mentality tho.
I'm concerned by how sexy I find Fritz. Damn those Nazis. Those sexy, sexy, Nazis.
Can ContraPoints be considered a classical liberal?
Currently binging your channel, 10/10 keep it up
Not entirely sure what the point of this was supposed to be. If I see someone responding to a holocaust denier with "but this lead to so much evil", all I'm gonna think is "well they obviously don't know if it actually happened either". With something like the holocaust, where a lot of the details are actually quite hard to figure out, and require a lot of time and research to get a hold of, this kind of attitude is just fucking disastrous.
I've been marathoning your videos all day and DAAAAAAAAMN YOUR LIGHTING IS SO AESTHETIC
Nevermind the INDISPUTABLE HISTORICAL fact that 20 million ethnic Europeans were exterminated by Jewish commissars in the Soviet Union?
Dave Rubin, Joe Rogan et al to a T.
i unironic agree with most of what alt right you said.
You can't say "that's exactly what they want you to think" as if you've fallen into their trap, the arguments themselves are not necessarily bad just because their promotion is partially part of a strategy to push faschistic ideology. I think the presentator is right in this debate and the fact you present it as "just what they want you to be saying" isn't valid to discredit tje mentality that is opening people up to this discussion.
Contra's main argument is "J'accuse…!" She intentionally blurs  the difference between a "Nazi" and a conservative. In her mind, you can't be against anti-white bigotry and also not be a Nazi. She is intellectually dishonest.
Gotta love that implicit assumption that Nazi's don't have a right to speak. Contra is dishonest.
Damn, that was some kafkaesque shit right there
"With some socialist leanings" You know, I have yet to actually encounter an alt-rightest with genuine socialist leanings.
This video will ironically push people to the right.   Danke Schoen
So this discussion is used to show that classical liberalism is broken and should be abandoned. Free speech is essential, and maintaining an open dialogue is important. The left wing then says, "But look it is letting hard right-wing ideas in!" But this isn't a failure of classical liberalism, but a failure of classical liberals in not seeing that the rights rhetoric is not made in good faith, and thus the conversation that proceeds is not an open dialogue at all.
I mean the Nazis' were a political party; white nationalists are an ideology. Calling white nationalists (or as they have taken to calling themselves "the alt-right") Nazis' is pretty unproductive. Just call them white nationalists... and call them assholes.
So I feel like there must be some kind of deeper symbolism with the Rhino besides it representing Saul's fear, shock, and disbelief at seeing his classical liberal friend falling into the neo-nazi alt-right trap, but why a Rhino specifically?  I know that's not the point of the video and I'm getting bogged down in the details, but still...
Your editing game has really improved over the course of your youtube career. The telling of a joke through simply changing the camera angle for a punchline was flawless.
"I ship Jackie and Fritz who's with me?" omg me it's like I commented that lol
Why do these SJWs keep saying racism is racist? It's an outrageous slur, there's nothing racist about racism.
Very well done as always
SLEEPERS AWAKE ETERNAL DAYLIGHT SHINES
Remind me to NEVER watch one of your vids while stoned lol
Comedy gold. It hits so many points, mainly about the "free speech" center (literally the center interviewer in the video) who believes that giving air to any and all ideas is equivalent to a rigorous challenging of those ideas based on a thorough understanding of their context and previous usage. i.e., lazy interviewing vs. knowledgeable journalism.
That Contrajew was tripping balls hard.
Ha nobody has ever read infinite jest
FYRRCREF NJNXR RGREANY QNLYVTUG FUVARF
Love your work, ContraPoints! <3
I have to admit, I did quite enjoy the "Rhinoceros"-reference.
Contra Points is kind of hot as a nazi
"Is this guy a nazi?""NEIN!""Ew. Bye." Lmfao
Andrea Dworkin and Hunter S Thompson stacked up on the shelf made my day.  Both good reads, too.
Interviewer sounds like Lauren Southern. The closet racist.
Fritz is pretty charismatic and a good speaker. Ze could probably get somewhere if ze, I don't know, maybe started a party and ran for office?
I think the problem here is that most people will respond positively to arguments that sound scientific and negatively to accusations of being a Nazi, true as they may be. Imo if Saul had refuted the arguments made by Fritz (which is honestly not that difficult to do) it would become a lot more clear to people like Jackie why these arguments are dangerous and nonsensical.
Why knowing how to argue instead of dismissing people matters
What's with the rhino head? Is it a symbol or contra just being contra?
Used to watch Rubin, got tired of hearing the same things over and over. For a guy who's so interested in the free market of ideas, he is a bit of a monopolist, if that analogy makes sense here. Focuses on really trivial differences for marketing. "The Gay Conservative." "The Other Gay Conservative."
If you make white people wanting to have a future inseparable from 'Nazism' you are creating the growth of 'Nazis'.
I don't see any comments about this, so, here's the letters spelled out by the Ouija board at the end: FYRRCREF [blank] NJNXR [blank] RGREANY [blank] QNLYVTUG [blank] FUVARF  I have no explanations wrt the meaning, but at least now it's transcribed? My best guess would be that maybe they're words in russian transcribed with similar-looking english letters? Since I know there's a russian letter that looks like B but sounds different(like s, I think). My other guess would be german, but I don't think their alphabet is all that dissimilar to ours, mostly just letters with dots over 'em iirc, so I dunno'. If I'm theorizing about something everyone else already knows the answer to, sorry, I'm new here ;p
You are amazing
I consider myself as kind of alt right leaning, and must say that i seriously love contrapoints videos.  You are very entertaining, thoughtful and super funny. :)
This was hilarious.
did anyone ever decrypt the cipher at the end?
Instead of imaginary "straw man" type criticisms why don't you have a honest debate with your altright peers like Millenial Woes or Black Pigeon? The far right is going to continue to grow with a young white demographic, while continuing the marginalization and hostility the youth have for the left.
The fucking rhino mask. I'm insane now.
Brilliant .... this one is talented
The Discourse
"What could I have said to change their minds?"  There is nothing. We can only organize, prepare and pray.
"What could I have said to change their minds." You could've addressed their concerns. You could've gone to them, and talked to them... listen to what their problem with you is... and maybe adjust your own flaws a little. That's what you could've done.  That's what you're doing -I've seen your stream with Sargon. Keep doing that... and if everybody just starts doing that we should be fine. And do talk to nazis. It makes you stronger.
Dude... it's ok to call people like Richard Spenser a nazi. Oh, you want an ethnostate, and a "peaceful" means of establishing your Germania --> Nazi, *we get it.*   What's not ok is calling people like Trump a nazi. His views are nothing like that. And I know you haven't called trump that, contrapoints... but this is why we are not seeing this nazi take-over. It's just a lot more than just Nazis that are rebelling against the left right now. The nazis aren't winning right now... it just feels like the are because you're loosing.    And the left is loosing because it's ONLY seeing the nazis, and you're not seeing what the left-wing is starting to look like... more and more authoritarian!
5:13 "Hold on, if lots of CEOs of media outlets are jewish.... why doesn't that count as Jewish control of the media?"´"you must be joking! are you really buying this??"  No I am not. It's just that your side has been making this same argument all over the place. "If lot's of CEOs are male, why doesn't this count as a male-dominated world? Patriarchy?"   It's the EXACT same argument, why do you see it's flaws when Nazis make it, and not when feminists do?   Can you really blame us for repeating this argument back to you coming from fucking Nazis?   Either both are true, or none of them are! Chose!
3:30 "Why is it that no one on the left is it that Asians allow hordes of immigrants into their countries. Why is that black people are allowed to take pride in their race, but when white people do the exact same thing, suddenly... it's racist." I'm sorry ContraPoints, but he has a real point there. One that you should consider.   We on the center-right assume we should all play by the same rules if we are going to be equal. Actually *be* one people. Establishing moral doublestandards like that in recognition of structural racism is very likely to just keep adding structural racism... because the environment will change and your double standard will remain... having to restart this conversation from scratch... and it keeps us thinking about each other in racial terms.     If you want to combat structural racism why not instead target economic classes for uplifting?   Per example specific housing districts? It'll  still be recognizing structural racism. I'd still call it racist, but I could live with it because the racial distribution would circle through that... it would stop being racist with time.
Brilliant.
All this shows is how unequipped most Leftists are to actually debate some of these ideas.
I agree that this does happen a lot with classical liberals who can be pretty easy targets for closet fascists; however let's face it the media all and all isn't very kind to nazis and the alt right, in fact it despises them; for the time being the public opinion on nazis and the alt right or anyone who dog whistles their ideas (the "i am a white identetarien" bullshit) is pretty obvious; they're mostly hated. However it is true that these classical liberals and centrists and conservatives are falling for this shit, very slowly but still. However the left can definitley try and do a better job at fighting fascists and alt righter's tactics because they're clearly much wittier. Punching nazis and organizing big protests where public property is damaged and people are hurt just because some faggot (milo yiannopoulos) was going to speak at berkely isn't good PR and only serves these extreme right wingers; in fact it's eactly the kind of response they want from the left in order for them to hammer their "the left hates free speech and are coming to get ya" rhetoric.  The left needs to stop being so guillible and easy to bait; or the quote on quote 'nazis' will troll and laugh all their way to power.
Oh my God gross its a fucking tranny.  Also the alt right is gay.
This video actually benefits the alt right.
What's wrong with securing a future for white children? We're going to do that, and you can't stop us.
I am a registered Democrat. I only supported them because Obama promised hope and change. I was so damn excited for Bernie until Hillary stole his presidency thinking she could win because she's a woman and that's all she needs. I became... As you might call me, Alt-Right troll after the 2016 Election.  At least the right is corrupt and we all know it, they try and put sprinkles and whipped cream on the pile of shit before they sell it to you. The left became right, Dems became republicans with greed and corruption running wild.   Trolling people after the election was my way of coping, and still is, oh having to deal with "chose the lesser of 2 evils" instead of and evil and Bernie... Do you know how crushing it is to love your country and it's people but only have a choice of "vote for me I'm a woman!" or greedy selfish as hell orange clown.  The thing is I am Kekistani, I am totally into mocking anyone and I welcome you do the same to me. I don't support Nazi or any extremists, be they from the right or left. Hate only breeds more hate. Kekistan only does it for the lulz, if you actually took a minute to look into the meaning of Kekistan where it is 1 race unbound by gender, color or religion. A true religion of peace and equality, a happy shadilay to everyone.   You wont read any of this shit, but that's my 2 cents. At least memes and left getting triggered is funny, this presidency is far too depressing to not let off steam.   On a last note, did you know that Jewish people owned the most slaves in the world? Including here in America where in at least 5/9 slave owning states 75% Jewish heritage people owned slaves. There is also a famous Jewish slave trader in Jamaica. Look up Jewish African Slave trade, Rabi's documented these events but nobody talks about it.
Everyone who i dont like is a nazi... now with costume and lights
1:06 golden humor
Your pronunciation is on top!
I understood that reference
I don't disagree with you, why cant you just refute the nazi? I've seen this theme in other videos too, where you explain what something is, but you don't explain why it is so and the justifications are left in the dark.
This  Nazi has a terrible accent...I hope I am not in any way un-pc in saying so.
I feel like the rhino mask is symbolic of a lot of American centrists (for those who don't know, Center in the U.S. is actually right wing compared to the rest of the world) who mainly align themselves with the Republican party but don't have the same values. With the House Republicans calling them Republicans In Name only. RINO  or maybe a cigar is just a cigar and I'm looking too far into this
Pan European? Can I claim to be pan Asian as a Cambodian? I can claim Indian, Vietnamese, Chinese, Japanese, Korean, Taiwanese, Mongolian, Filipino, Indonesian,  etc culture?
You're not wrong but how is communism the answer.....
This is so clever and so well done but as a German I still flinched at the use of German to denote the fascist. It really IS the language of fascism, isn't it? Could't be an American fascist, had to be a guy speaking German, right? I guess this is what I have to live with, I just think when you are so aware of sensibilities using this filmic technique is itself a little racist, isn't it? But don't worry, everyone does it, everyone loves it and it will stay with us forever. I just hope you can separate between people speaking German and actual fascists.
this  A E S T H E T I C  is fucking rad.
WHY R U PAYING ONE OUNCE OF ATTENTION TO A TINY GROUP WITH NO POWER THAT HAS BEEN DISAVOWED BY ALL IN AMERICA FOR DECADES ? STRAW MAN IS WHY ! THESE FEW HUNDRED POWERLESS MORONS ARE NOTHING. THIS IS A SAD AND DESPERATE CONFLATION BUT ALSO PREDICTABLE FROM THE PROPAGANDA LEFTARDS.  *[NEO-NAZI ALT-'RIGHT'] AND THE CURRENT DEMOCRAT LEFT HAVE ALMOST THE EXACT SAME BELIEFS.* 'HOW CRAZY' YOU SAY ? ME TOO AT FIRST. YOU WILL LOOK AND NOT TRUST ME AND OF THAT I WON'T CURSE. I LOOKED AND LOOKED AGAIN AND WHAT HAVE I FOUND ? THE DIFFERENCE ONLY THESE TWO , I SO HAPPENED TO HAVE FOUND. 1. ONE ARE INTERNATIONALISTS, THE OTHER NATIONAL. 2. ONE HATES NON WHITES AND THE OTHER HATES WHITES. THAT'S IT. NOTHING ELSE. BOTH DO SHARE ALL OF THESE TRAITS: 1.HATE CAPITALISM 2. ARE SOCIALIST 3. WANT BIG GOVERNMENT [BOTH FOR INTERNAL ALL AROUND CITIZEN CONTROL] 4. BOTH HATE BIG BANKS. 5. THEY HATE THE CONSTITUTION 6. ARE COLLECTIVIST 7. DON'T CARE ABOUT INDIVIDUAL RIGHTS/FREEDOMS 8. WILLING TO USE DE PLATFORMING AND VIOLENCE TO FIGHT OPPOSITION TO THEIR CONTROL 9. BOTH DISLIKE RELIGION AND WANT NONE OF IT AT ALL IN THE THEIR STATE (GOVERNMENT) 10. THEY BOTH DISLIKE FINANCE CAPITALISM AND THE INTERNATIONAL CORPORATE BANKS. THEIR SELF GIVEN LABEL OF ALT RIGHT SEEMS TO LIKE ANTIFA'S WHICH SEEMS DOUBTFUL INDEED. IF SOME PIGS SAY CALL US 'ALT-KITTENS' JUST MAKES THE PIGS LOOK PRETTY LAME. PLEASE SEE FOR YOURSELF THAT'S WHAT I DID AND NOW AM SO GLAD. YOU SHOULD ALSO, IN THE END I THINK YOU'LL BE MUCH MUCH LESS SAD.
Quite the humorus game of Musical Strawmen ya have here Contra lol
You can win arguments against the alt-right in a rational manner without shutting them out or making emotional appeals. Sure don't give them a platform, but don't act like it is impossible to win the debate rationally. I think this assumption is why people are not prepared to debate the alt-right, and why the alt-right is able to appeal to the open conversation crowd: if people were more prepared for just debating facts, then they wouldn't lose to people who don't have a great grip on reality.   I think other parts of this channel basically show that winning such debates in a rational manner is possible. That being said, using critical theory isn't the most effective means of winning debate when there are many other theories used to describe the world with much higher levels of predictive value, and which are also more likely to be listened to by the right, classical liberals, and centrists.
I wish you would address why you feel like these ideas are convincing to people. If the thought is that giving them a platform will lead to an otherwise reasonable, non-fascist to suddenly transform into a neo-Nazi, could you give a hypothesis as to why that is?
sad reacts only :'(
"Nature! The laws of naaaaaatuuuuure!"
Europe Censors speech because they believe that the right of the community, the group, the government takes higher precedence over the individual. That your Rights come from government. the USA is different in which it says that you, the individual have inalienable human rights to be free from, separated from, Government. It has resulted in Europeans being sheep to back in Nazi Germany, and even today with most falling for the media narratives. Sometimes it results in odd results such as individuals saying that they support the same policies Trump pushed, then saying that we should of voted for Hillary.   About the why people seem sympathetic to the Alt-Right/Neo-nazis is because violence is wrong, especially people who start the violence. It doesn't matter the motives of the protest, people have a right to speak without fear of violence because that is an American value of freedom of speech. We don't have to like what someone says, but they have the right to say it. especially when the other side involves Antifa, an Anarcho-Communist group. The point is, even scumbag Nazis have a right to hold a peaceful protest. Being violent to them only makes them into a victim and drives more support to them. Also, it isn't that bad currently that it warrants violence. Americans aren't being rounded up or having their rights revoked, no politician is even talking about that so what it looks like is people overreacting by calling everyone from Trump to Ted Cruz a Nazi, and being violent in the streets.   About the why people are equivocating the Alt-Right to the Alt-Left/Antifa/BLM is that TODAY, they aren't that different. All of these groups are extremists in their goals. Alt-Right/Neonazis want to create a "white ethnostate" and wipe non-whites off the country. Antifa wants a Communism, complete control of the nation, and the deaths of millions of "nazis" in the US. BLM's goals are a bit more disorganized and vague having a range from wanting to abolish the police, to trillions of dollars (through cash and services), and power for people of color over whites, and some even want to kill many, most, or all white people. Other alt-left groups want to remove/abolish Christianity/Religion; have men get paid less than women for the same work; Trans community wants to force others to call them what they identify as and throw basic biology/science out the window and force their ideals onto CHILDREN (which they are doing a good job at currently; and crazy Islamist movement want Western nations to adopt the archaic/primitive Sharia Law as the law of the land and legalization of Female Genital Mutilation on little girls/babies legal.  It isn't as simple as Left vs Right, but Alt-Left vs Leftists vs Liberals vs Conservatives vs NeoConservatives vs Alt-Right. None of these sides really like the other, sometimes they have a small goal in common to point A, but different to Point B. Some try to lump opposing groups together to call them all the extreme end for political advantage.
You're amazing. How are you able to capture how I feel so well?
And I thought I was so clever - then it was all revealed ... Still genius though!
Allusion to Ionesco's Rinoceros was the clincher for me ... genius, truly!
I LOOOVE these kind of vids, keep it up comrade!
Can someone show this to Phillp DeFranco?
This captures the frustration of arguing with the altright
Is that "ze" pronouns joke due to the fact that most German people mispronounce 'the' as 'ze', is it because it's the American pronunciation of 'Sie' (her) or am I overthinking that whole thing :D?  Beste Grüße aus Norddeutschland! Ich würde mir wirklich eine deutsche Variante dieses Kanals wünschen, damit ich die Videos allen rechts-lehnenden Freunden von mir senden kann!
This is genius
Am I supposed to identify with Saul, cause I thought he did a terrible job? You got all the Alt Right taking points in there and Saul just sat there.  If I hadn't watched your other vid, I'd swear this is a subversive attempt to "red-pill" people.
Very impressive Ideological Turing Test submission. It's almost as if you're alt-right, because the alt-right side was so much more convincing. I of course assume you're on Saul's side here (I am too, ultimately. I don't want to be deported to Israel or thrown in an oven.). But if your counter-argument is "I can't even", of course the alt-right is going to steamroll you. I don't think denying them a platform is going to work in the long run.
I'm curious about your view on Noam Chomsky saying that Antifa is a 'major gift to the right'.
i'm german, this is hilarious
You are so sexy in that Nazi uniform.
Excellent.
im alt right and i found this hilarious
It's much easier to literally film yourself arguing with a straw man instead of filming yourself debating actual non-fictional people with opposing ideas, isn't it. Congratulations of having zero substance.  Btw, I also love how you weren't able to answer the "Nazi"'s question about why whites aren't allowed to celebrate their race while all other races can. You must have had at least a moment of self-awareness there that I assume you promptly bottled up and pushed down, right?
Max Landis... is that you?
Nobody's gonna comment on the Glass Reflection cameo? ok. More on topic, I've recently watched several of your more recent videos on classic liberals and neo-nazis and I admire the efforts done to understand these sides and to make satire out of them.
I take it contra is from NewYork. The straight up approach totally makes me think NewYork.
I think this video is even funnier when you speak german. You know, because it reminds me of the good old times. In all seriousnes though, this captures the essence of the problem quite well. I'm getting into debates with racists/sexists/whatever online way too much for my own good and all they do is evading the points and bringing up false equivalences to conceal their obvious bigotry.
Of course trans women aren't women. They're just another one of nature's anomalies.
poor Saul :(
Also, i dont see how it's totally OK to criticise "white supremacy" while bringing up the JQ is off limits. It's basically the same concept but applied to a different group, just one step up the same ladder. The double standard.
I dont get it. You're just arguing against yourself here. Fritz owned the jewish guy, who just repeated "this is absurd" and accused Fritz of plotting genocide. All ideologies and religions have blood on their hands. Lets not forget the gulags etc.
omg I was thinking this reminded me of Ionesco!
You are SO good with languages and accents!
I had to subscribe and I usually don’t ever do that for political channels but I couldn’t resist. 😭 I love the content.
Was this supposed to roast the alt right because it really didn't do that...... The Nazi had better arguments
Omg you're a genius
i wonder how many gender neutral pronouns there are in arabic
lol such a good lampooning of Dave Rubin
This fucked me up!
Holy shit, that was good.
This video is all too relevant now....
"both sides"
Watching this again after all the shit that happened in Charlottesville this weekend. You were right on the nose with it. How the fuck the "Skeptic" Community can continue to tap dance around this repulses me.
sleepers awake eternal daylight shines
Yeah , yeah this silly mockery reflects the truth about the Alt-Right and why we need another Lenin and Stalin to eradicate these reactionary jokers .
gold.
This person should be fucking famous. Like actually famous.
if japanese and south korean people were to magically turn white while retaining all of their other characteristics, the left would be up in arms to declare war on them for their nazism.
The reason why it's a clichè that rightwingers ask why East Asians aren't expected to have open borders is because it reveals the hypocrisy and racism of the left.   By making fun of it, you, the leftwingers, are only digging your own grave, by reminding people that you not only hold this racist, hypcritical position, but also that it doesn't even bother you.
Sleepers awake, eternal daylight shines.
Oddly enough, I thought Saul almost looked more feminine than the other characters.    As a straight male, I was confused by all of the getups, and not in a bad way!  I think part of the visual appeal of this channel is getting tied up in knots
This satire is as brilliant as it is depressing.
So, if you think about it Saul Salzman had exactly ZERO ContraPoints to "nazi's" arguments. Only emotional gibberish and slippery slope argument.
Really liked this video, much because of the "trippy" bits. Love it!
will we still get characters like Saul and Lord Foppington if you transition? i hope so
Why is Fritz acting more rationally than the other guy? (with the exception of the jewish stuff)
neither the alt right or any white identitarian movement are threatening the life of anyone. And if the use of such rhetoric is immediately dangerous because of history, you should be fair and do it with all sort of ideological rhetoric, like the ones carried out by groups like antifa or the the whole 1% thing, which it could be said that they are just politically corrected ways of saying "fuck the bourgeoisie".
i love your content, youre borderline genius. nice german btw
Dammit, I wish you were one of my close friends. I need people like you in my life...I think I would be much happier and better and....psychologically and emotionally content, satisfied really. I'm just afraid I'm not a friend worth having.
The globalist Marxist Feminists drive their sycophants to exclaim... "Hitler killed 6 million jews!", while ignoring that their hero Stalin killed 60 million.  Mao did the same.  Socialism, what the Democrats believe in, is the most deadly political philosophy in human history.
"I'm no Holocause denier, but.." Jesus Christ O.o
Jackie Jackson sounds like Roaming Millenial when she debated with ContraPoints about Roaming interviewing Richard Spencer
The MOST accurate portrayal of an youtube livestream chat
Bravo! 🌹
Debating a decentralised group doesn't really go too well.
I'm jumping around videos but I haven't found the start of the trip-out sequence thread. #RhinoHallucination
Oh! Just got the rhino mask. Like the play! 
Ach... das ist doch alles scheissegal. Federer just won his his 8th Wimbledon and 19th Grand Slam title. yuhuu :)
Well the whole part about not endorsing genocide or death camps or invading foreign countries or totalitarian dictatorship is a pretty important distinction to make.
A Ionesco reference ? In my youtubes ??
This... Should have way more views. This is masterful satire. God-tier. Best way of expressing this point that I have seen
Wow, this is the best way to describe the dilemma free speech brings. Does the rhino represent something?
How stupid do you have to be to have no counter points to a "nazi's" rhetoric? You clearly DON'T understand the importance of free and open dialogue.
All the details are so perfect.
lol- I'm borderline alt-right and that was awesome!
Because of this video, every so often I imagine Laci Green is wearing a rhino mask.
FYRCREF NJNXR RGREANY QNLYVTUG FUVAFR
Where have you been al my life? Sweet Black Jesus, I love your work.
I'm a "classical liberal" why do the left always lose in the debates?
I'm confused. What is the symbolic significance of the Rhino?
I feel like I'm going to have nightmares after seeing this.  ...I might enjoy them.
When you wink at the camera I fucking die
so does the rhino = R.I.N.O.?
Amazing video. top kek
I have no issue with equating the *actual* alt-right (like Spencer), or *actual * white nationalists with nazis. But, are you saying that *anyone* who someone calls "alt-right" or "nazi" must therefor be a legit nazi? Because between the "the left are the *real* nazis" types, and the "anyone who voted Trump is a nazi" types, and the ridiculously lose way people use the term "alt-right", pretty sure *all of us* are ""nazis"" at this stage.   I'm no Trump fan, but since halfway through his campaign hearing someone called "nazi" and "alt-right" virtually lost all meaning to me (at least until I could confirm the claim; which I rarely could). Hate to say it, but elements of the left have robbed those terms of any impact they once had.
I love the touches of surrealism here. And the colorful lighting. Very stylistic.
As someone who lives in Germany, I think his impersonation of a nazi is hilarious.
+ Contrapoints Is your argument that Rubin agrees with Nazis?
0:50 ugh, and they make fun of tumblr-goers for that idenshitty politics bullshit, the hypocritical douchebags.
Really well done video. Brava.
Spilt 2 looks great
you as a Nazi looks like the girl from older nostalgia chick videos
How did you manage to clone yourself to do this?
This is the most well made of all of Contra's videos. It's also the most fucking terrifying, frustrating, and painful to watch.
Hey Contra! I just thought I'd say I really liked this video about debating the alt-right. With that in mind, are you planning on making a video about taking cutesy selfies with the alt-right?
muh 12 gorillian
this is amazing
@AdolfHitler had a good point.  But it seems David Lynch had a better one when he co-wrote this espiode.
And this is why conservatives and alt-right could very well succeed. They are extremely well organized and know how to undermined evidence.
alt right isnt national socialism, not all alt rightists are natsoc, but technecly all national socialists are alt right as they are too edgy for normal conservatives
T  H  E    T  R  U  T  H    I  S    I  N    T  H  E    M  I  D  D  L  E
OOOH THE RHINOCEROS THING WAS FROM THAT PLAY BY IONESCO I JUST REALIZED THIS AND RAN TO THE VIDEO TO COMMENT
I want to give Saul a hug :(  He doesn't deserve any of this.
instant like as soon as you cut to rhino mask screechy music smoke machine
genuinely funny. you're weird but it's funny
"Fritz würde gerne mit dir über die Judenfrage sprechen" fucking lost it. You're amazing.
Would just like to point out that historically the increase in immigration has always led to the decline of nations.. And we're seeing it again in Europe cultures do not mix well why do you think there are racists a clash of cultures only ever causes harm to both sides, so for the safety of humanity immigration needs to be stopped. The economical benefits of a working immigration population isn't as useful as the governments would have you believe.
ContraPoints - Hast du dich mal mit tara mccarthy befasst?
That Live Viewer Response is on fire.
no ones lives is being threatened by fascist ideology. At least no ones lives is being threatened here in the USA. There are real fascist groups rising in europe but thats in response to violence, political corruption in the EU and the extreme poverty and hopelessness of the situation the EU has created And massive waves of violent immigrants that bring with them a culture of cruelty and misogyny.  All of that is leading up to something very ugly. But thats in Europe. Here in the USA, there is no rising fascism. Its all hyperbole and we see which side is being violent and making shit up about some phantom fascist. If there were fascists, we would reject them and respond.
Why don't you do a debate with Jared Taylor?
"He said he isn't a Nazi, so it must be true!" Says the nigga who "Says he isn't a dude," and believes that because of that belief "it must be true." :^)
In this whole video I see no appeals for a totalitarian govt, Aryan supremacy,  and no real anti semitism. The person said they like Jews individually and is open to Jewish culture. Saying you dislike some of a group doesn't mean you are anti-anything. We all dislike some of all groups. Are there certain types of men or women that you hate? If so you **aren't** sexist. You clearly dislike those individuals because of their actions or personality. Next, trying to preserve your race says nothing about supremacy.  Yes the person *could* be a supremacist but no actual evidence has been shown that they think their race is better than yours just based off of that. You can't be a Nazi and want limited government which the alt right wants. Therefore calling an alt right person a Nazi is insane. The closest I can think of to nazism comes from the left. In nursing school my professor told us to make sure to have pregnant mothers get their unborn tested for down syndrome as early as possible so she can abort it while it is still legal. That's one of the top reasons they do that check... to prevent the "undesirables" from being born. The liberal party also is to blame for the more obvious eugenics that have happened in the past. They also social engineer our culture by trying to ban freedom of speech. Banning freedom of speech is a way brainwashing people. I'm not alt right bc I'm not an ethnonationalist and I don't believe some of their Jewish ideas but thank God for them because we need resistance against the mainstream who seeks to control us.
This is so captivating and funny I'm so happy my friend linked me to you I'm dead but in a good way
interesting content tho
conservatives = nazis
Echt toll :)
Ah, the jeww! So victim!
So instead of actually getting someone from the 'alt right' onto your show, you had to synthesize your own to control the debate? I'd even debate your goofy ass. Unscripted. But you'd rather create your own controlled opposition to set up as a strawman, to then characterize a vast amount of people as bigoted, german speaking neo nazis, and then pat yourself on the back for providing an approved point of view. Go fuck yourself.
You know, you were doing really well straw manning classical liberals until the end.  When MY side is violent, it's justified. When YOUR side does it, FASCISM.  BTW, I hate the Alt-Right.
There's triggered, and there's doing-a-12-minutes-video triggered.
Is it wrong that I'm an antifascist who totally wants to fuck the shit out of Nazi ContraPoints?
It's refreshing to see a video like this in a time where YouTube has become dominated by guys like Alex Jones, Paul Joseph Watson,Milo Shamalamadingdong(I know his last name,I just don't wanna spell it) and all the other cookie cutter Alt-right channels on here. Keep up the good work,Contrapoints :3
Love that Infinite Jest on your shelf. Also, great video!
this video is genius
I'm strongly considering starting all my conversations with "Do you have a moment to talk about the need to secure the existence of our people and a future for white children."   1 problem though, its so hard to say without jumbling the existence and future bits. i bet you practiced forever! lol
your acting skills are improving..
No homo. I wanna give it to contra
This is horrible, but funny. lol.   Since you read, I'd like to hear what you have to say about Sontag's essay on Riefenstahl's photography of the Nuba. The essay is "Fascinating Fascism", from _Under the Sign of Saturn_. I bring this up because there's a section on Nazi kitsch memorabilia being incorporated into the gay community (I'd guess of the late 1970s - think SF gay parade and the Village People). And - you know - here you are wearing a Nazi uniform in jest to make your political point. Which I don't argue you _shouldn't_ do, just that Sontag has a perspective on that and I wonder how you interpret Sontag's contrast with your own reasons.
Contra, your mannerisms and speech patterns remind me a lot of my ex. She also lives in Baltimore. Small world.  And for what it's worth, I'm not creeping. Well over my ex (it's been years), and I've since come out as asexual anyway.
I would call myself a classical liberal and really admire Dave Rubin. In fact I would say that I disagree with most of the points you make, but your videos are such masterful pisstakes of yourself and your opposition that I can't help but really enjoy your content. You've warmed my cold dead anti-sjw heart and gained a new subscriber in the process.
I was laughing from start to finish!  Subscribed!
I'm german and clearly offended by this. Can I get a safespace? And please don't call me "german" anymore - something like that doesn't exist. I need my own pronoun now.
appreciate the ionesco joke
Good quality video production, just please consider sticking to your more potent videos where you actually contribute to debate and make arguments. Whilst I disagreed on some of your factual claims in your "Why White Nationalism is Wrong" video, the moral side of it was convincing in some regard and that actually got me thinking. I know this perspective might taste like try turkey to you but please stop trying to shut debate down (oy vey!) just because it offends your moral sensibilities. Everyone exists in this free marketplace of ideas and no amount of ideological protectionism will boost the integrity of an invalid position!
Quirk's exception is worth a mention https://groups.google.com/forum/#!topic/humanities.lit.authors.shakespeare/Scaiu5sx_4E
This was absolutely hilarious. It's incredibly refreshing to see a YouTuber get creative with video formats. The script was also really clever. Fantastic work ContraPoints!
Is the Rhino mask supposed to signify anything in particular?
epic!
I've never before seen an Ionesco reference in a YouTube video. This is so good it's unreal.
This is the best skit you've ever done.
Ionesco much? Edit: oh it is.
The fact that the Jewish conspiracy thing is the main focus of this video is the reason that a dialogue with the alt-right is needed - because I know plenty of alt-right people and I can't think of a single one who's ever spouted this bullshit. They talk more about feminism and 'race realism'. My main problem is that 'race realism' they have - if you wanna defame the alt right, talk about that.
The Nazi outfit looks more like a NKVD uniform
Have you ever seen a Jew Jitsu?
I love that play ContraPoints! It encapsulates perfectly the absurd while debating alt-rights, conservatives and libertarians. Very well made, well argued and that surrealist atmosphere! Thank you for showing the hypocrisy of these pseudo-intellectuals. All the best!
Fuck dude, you (or I guess Eugene Ionesco) have been in my head .
Bruh, Jackie Jackson ContraPoints is fucking bangin.
Freedom leads to nazism which is the lack of freedom of certain individuals. Therefore, let's forbid the freedom of some individuals. LOGIC THO
You're able to articulate the concerns of the alt-right, but do you really think they're a gleefully scheming mob movement that threatens innocent jews? We're hitting doublethink levels that shouldn't even possible.  Otherwise,  good show.
I just wanna give Saul a hug.
I love this Dave Rubin take. 😂
i was watching this then i was like, 'omg, this is exactly what happened with laci green'
This is why we bash.
i love the videos, and that anita sarkeesian shrine gets me every damn time
I don't get it - it's not as though you can't simply debate the alt-right calmly. It may not be the most worthwhile thing in a one-on-one setting, because the alt-righter isn't likely to be persuadable. But when there's a public, simply debate him!
Would bang all 3, prrferablly at the same.
This is like Laci Green in a nutshell.
While I understand Saul's frustration, I also identify with the host more than Saul. I mean, you don't want to be a racist, bit doesn't it seem like a double standard when white people are not allowed to congregate with "White pride?" why are women's only nights okay, but men's only nights sexist? I actually would have like to see Saul address this, especially because I hear these arguments far more often than I hear their refutation. However, I understand that was not the point you were trying to make.
This video is gay as fuck lmao
The amount of people pissed off over your new video that got flagged is ridiculous
I'm sorry your latest video was false flagged. I didn't entirely agree with it myself, but that's neither here nor there.
FYRRCREF NJNXR RGREANY QNLYVTUG FUVARF
So you are a social justice warrior or you are a nazi which you are allowed to punch or at the very least non-physically destroy according to SJW standards? How is that not a declaration of war on anybody who is not on-board with the SJW sect?
all the cool Nazi's are dead, now we're left with socially awkward sperglords playing pretend send help.
brilliantly observed. iv experienced that quite a few times.
hey contra! I love this vid and it's incredibly funny and poignant, but I'm probably a weakling to ask, but would it be possible to get an unlisted/link only version of this w/o the super slur filled chat ticker? just so I can share it w my friends who aren't super privy to that style of humor
Contra I just started watching you, your wardrobe is amazing and I love your production. It's fantastic :O
I gave this a full, immediate re-watch because the narrative playing out in the @s was too riveting to look away from. 🤴
The '''''''''rational skeptic classical liberal'''''''' position feels like a complete lie. In order for it to make any sense the person would need to be completely free of their own biases, and looks like it can only work if the person has absolute knowledge on a certain subject to begin. Being in the center like that, just like being on the far end of the spectrum like that is still being satisfied with everything you already know and provides you absolutely no obligation to learn anything.
That was really a really great video!  First time I've checked you out Contra, and I like what I see.  I think you are clearly overreacting due to too much social justice koolaid, but it is good to see it all through your eyes.  And you could be right.  I'm sorry, but if this is how you really feel, then it is even more incumbent on you to get out there and spread your message.  I'm sure Laci would host you, maybe even Rubin.  Godspeed and Shadilay
Thoggy not sure what he stumble upon...but likes and subs!
As a conservative, I actually agree with most of this video. I respect you for making this. However, we fundamentally disagree over what is more important, and I believe that is what separates true liberals and true conservatives today. I personally think that the antisemetic side of the Alt Right is a radical outcry to multiculturalism, and nothing more. I fundamentally disagree with the alt right and wish that they did not exist. I will gladly debate a brainwashed holocaust denier any day. In terms of what is the most important, i believe that as long as we have a media and academia that shames and de platforms the other side simply for having a different opinion(not talking about nazis, im talking about people who just want to talk about facts and the constitution, ect), this issue will continue to go on and rise. The left currently has more social power than the right does, and trumps presidency has only made the left more vocal and politically active. And they are using it wrong.
Are you german? Becaus that was flawless german.
If more leftists offered quality comedy like ContraPoints, us right-wingers would be in a heap of trouble.
I find this video entertaining but perhaps i missed the point, but that Fritz guy was actually right about everything he said and if this is a representation of a debate between a leftist and a alt-right then then no wonder that the alt- right seems more appealing by the day i mean the jew never even made an argument
you gay as hell
Your newest video is really insightful and I learned a lot. It's such a shame, and censorship, that it was taken down off youtube
Hey Contra , did your latest video get flagged ?  THAT'S BULL SHIT if so .
hey, i don't agree with you most of the time but you make quality videos and i believe in free speech coz I'm  literally a  nazi who hates women, minorities, and happiness, so I hope your video that got taken down will be back online soon I watched that video and it had nothing in it that would warrant removal
Seeing these discussions played out this way helps me so much. I just got into an argument on a forum with an alt right presence about whether women have earned the right to vote, and sense of the surreal in the moment was really embodied in this video.
This is the best video on the internet
Ha the Iunesco reference . I feel so smart for noticing it. Damn why did you made it obvious? Next time you do that I'll be the teacher and teach you a lesson. 
I'm impressed by your understanding of the views which oppose yours, but do you actually have a response to any of them?
I hope you do more videos in this format, highly enjoyable and intellectually useful.
Contra, what you seem to be missing is that the same ideology that wants to protect the speech of nazis (or nazi-like ideologies even if they don't want to call it that) is the same ideology that will ultimately prevent a nazi-like ideology from taking total power... Unless you think it is so weakened by years of fights that it might not be enough, but then what you should have attacked should have been whatever the ideologies are prescribing to DO.  What did he want to do with the "jew media" or whatever? Force the point and then even if you are not prepared for that fight, learn the argument then all you had to do was to bring a list of all the Christians in everywhere to counteract for instance (like the steves from biology against the list of "scientists" against evolution)?  As I think I see, if you keep punching the point, even if the thing is not a "nazi", the ideology should be reviled in no time flat when exposed by the sun of the current ideology.
7:59 ¯\_(ツ)_/¯
This is like rewatching Michael Haneke's Funny Games (the 1997 one), which, by the way, nowadays reads more like an internet exchange brought to full absurd life than a comment on movie violence.
While this was great in identifying the problems with debating Nazis and reminded me of many a frustrating argument I've found myself in; more importantly I'M SO JEALOUS YOU HAVE THOSE BLACK MILK LEGGINGS THAT ARE SUPER COOL AND HAVE BEEN OUT OF STOCK FOREVERRRRR >_______<
sleepers awake eternal daylight shines
How do I tag Laci Green in this?
Fuck, you're talented. Keep up the good work.
so many bonus points for the rhinoceros reference I discovered this channel today and already love this person
"i am a man and/or woman of my word" relatable
this video made me very uncomfortable. i want my mommy
I'm far right but I find this video hilarious. The fact that you're able to make fun of all sides is great. Great job on this video, Contra.
lol @ the 'genau'... Native German speakers have no idea how frequently they used that word in conversations with non-German speakers. Pretty easy to pick up it's meaning given how frequently it's used without awareness that it slipped into thier English. (7-year relationship with a German... genau was used frequently, like "um" for English and "eto" in Japanese... genau is agreement :D) yeah very tiny portion of your video, but I greatly appreciated it :)
You've missed incorporating /pol/ into this video.
This is absolutely ingenious. Especially after seeing roaming millenial interview Richard spencer. Has anyone seen the comment section of that interview? Many people see him as a rather articulate sympathetic character. They need to read a history book or a book about charismatic psychopathic spin doctors..cult leaders...I could go on.If she is going to interview him she should at least ask him the hard questions, the obvious questions.... like DO YOU BELIEVE WHITE MEN ARE SUPERIOR TO EVERYONE ELSE. and his answer is a well documented yes. DO YOU BELIEVE WE SHOULD BE SEGREGATED  AS A RESULT OF OUR SUPERIORITY? His answer would be yes. What are the means and policies you would hypothetically put in place to achieve this end? And therein lies the slippery slope into oppression and/ or genocide...war....ethnic cleansing....which I'm sure they've already invented a good euphemism for. You are much needed Contrapoints.
Very important video in this time. Subscribed
wow worst video ever. so much bull. i used to like your work but this was a complete misrepresentation of your opponents views.  Your opponent are not nazis. Your entire video is anyone who doesn't agree with you is evil?! jesus, you're the fucking facist.
just because the heads of the biggest media companies are Jewish is in no way a sign of any kind of Jewish influence on the media, why even asking it makes you a nazi up front lol. I like ya contra points and I don't genuinely believe of a giant Jewish conspiracy to influence every aspect of western life. but I do think when you say people can't even ask something like that without being a nazi it pushes people towards sources that aren't gonna call them nazis but also give them a skewed narrative. if you're allowed to ask why so many people in power are white men and claim that is a sign of a white supremacist patriarchy it does then come off a little hypocritical to make fun of people who see predominantly Jewish people running most of the media as a sign our media is part of a Jewish conspiracy. I find both conclusions pretty dump but I feel like it was the left who started saying that all these white men in positions of power was a sign of institutional racism country wide. so if your gonna make that kind of leap of logic acceptable it isn't very shocking to me that someone could turn around replace white guy with Jewish guy and come to their own outlandish conclusion. but please tell me no its actually okay to say that about white men and western patriarchy and not racist at all but the other premise is strictly the domain of alt right nazis.
The German pronunciation is, surprisingly, frankly astonishing.
Um, what was the point of this? The "Nazi" (which she wasn't really a Nazi imo) actually made some pretty decent points (while I don't agree with them) whereas half of Saul's arguments were just leftist talking points mixed in with "but he's a Nazi!" which, well, isn't an argument. I'm new to this channel so can someone explain?
"How am i supposed to have an honest dialogue with someone who denies my right to exist?"  Now you know how white people feel. Only race that's not allowed their homelands. But Israel is okay isn't it? Nothing wrong with that.
Funny until you explicitly justified leftist violence. Hypocrite.
I would give this video more than one upvote, but that's all I can give.
"A nazi by any other name is still a nazi" -William Shakespeare (probably). The ease with which actual white supremacists are able to cover their tracks by shouting about freezepeach and how they're not like the historical nazis (despite subscribing to all the same ideas, iconography and tactics) is pretty hilarious. How much more transparent do they have to be for people to realize their typical racist and fascist motives? The white supremacist will never tell you that they outright want to exterminate you until they are in a position to do so, by which point it will be too fucking late. They will politely discuss solving the X question or the Y question... but the only solution they ever intend is the one that leads to genocide.
12 MILLION? You racist it was atleast 24 million who died in the death camps
TOO REAL.
This skit really didn't persuade me at all. Lefty you doesn't really refute any of righty you's points, he just keeps saying, "I can't believe this! He's a nazi!" What few points lefty you does make are weak.
This is what I can't stand about Dave Rubin's show. He literally just sits, nods and smiles as his guests spout absurdities. He doesn't seem to know how to challenge these people...or possibly he wants to maintain the reputation of being the "cool" liberal. And at least in your video you show a version of Rubin's show in which people of two view points are on at the same time. Dave doesn't do this so there's literally no one around to call the guest out on their bullshit.
This was like a Richard Spencer, Dave Rubin and Cenk Uger (messy) love triangle.
12 million? First it's 6 million, then it's 11 million and now it's 12 million. I'm not falling for your tricks, schlomo.
If white nationalism is unacceptable because it killed millions, what about marxism?
During this entire video I had to think about kraut and tea's stream with king of pol. It's not impossible to change these people's minds, you just have to talk to them like people and show them the evidence and crunch the numbers. I know that there are much more extreme people than king of pol, but just calling them nazis without making any points won't change their opinions.
Is there absolutely no danger from the left? Coming from the former Soviet Union, a lot of my family despise socialism and communism, but growing up in the West I never hear it get critiqued in the same way the Right does, except by the Alt-right or Republican style conservatives. I'm pretty much in the middle politically, but when I bring these things up all I hear are platitudes that "it wasn't true socialism" and "orthodox Marxism unsullied by Leninism/Stalinism" is utterly peaceful. Are Antifa, as a far-left organisation, just as much representatives of a murderous ideology (with the evidence being the historical record) as the Alt-right is a representative of Nazism/Ethno-fascism? I'm not trying to argue anything, I'm just curious, and never quite hear a good answer as to why far-left organisations (who sometimes also incite violence, or promote violence) don't get a bad rap? Is it because they're not as influential and they're not racist? Historical associations making their reputation not as bad as Alt-rightists? I hope it's not a too stupid question or too badly worded.
This. Is. So.  Depressing.
It's pretty obvious this has nothing to do with Contra's debate with Roaming and that this is obviously not a huge middle finger at Roaming's views   Can I just add that Nazi Contra is freaking hot? Not that I'm a  Neo Nazi or anything...
I get the point, but I feel some some people are going to take from this that everyone making Frtiz's points or anything vaguely sounding like Frtiz's points is a literal Nazi, perhaps a slightly different flavour, and that they shouldn't be listened to. But many of the points he makes, in the right context, are completely valid. As a general "this is how the entire world over should be at all times" - no. Saul didn't really say anything other than "what the fuck is this Nazi doing here" - which is valid, cause Fritz is obviously implied to be someone playing the game to achieve Nazi goals rather than outright stating what they really want in the end, but ultimately he didn't actually make an argument of any kind that opposes the points raised. Now, from a literal nazi disguising themselves someone reasonable and rational, I get that "The guy is a fucking headcase" is rebuttal enough. But what of the people who make Fritz's points but don't really care about the "preservation of the white race" etc. Those exist and their points are not less valid just because there's some snakes in the grass.
Want to remake this with a version where you show how to actually counter their points without calling to the highly contentious example of the second world war.
so ...a Ionesco Reference. That was unexpected, though extremely relevant to the matter.
Your videos are something brilliant
Contra, I am a fan of your sanity.
Even though I'm largely in disagreement with Contra on most of these topics, I love his and/or her production value and the fact that he and/or she is one of the more polite people on YouTube and the fact that he and/or she is a man and/or woman of her word. Keep it up, Contra!
this video does really hit the nail on the head. I see many people leaning more to the right because of the right being more accepting, and indirect about their core values, unlike its left counterpart that uses "google is free" and things of the sort. It really blocks people from wanting to participate in leftist discussion, and leads them straight to the right. It is somewhat smart of the right wing communities to see the flaw left wing communities and use it to their advantage.  If the left was more accepting of questions instead of bluntly leaving people "yikes" or "sounds like ------ but ok" or... the worst... "bitch pay me" (that deserves a yikes), the left would see a much bigger following. While I believe emotional labour exists, there has to be a point where you do what is better for the whole movement, instead of looking directly at the consequences for you, because at the end of the day, you are doing yourself a favour for educating, not pushing away people who you could really use on your side. No movement grows when people stay in the comfort of their homes. But until then....
jesus contra..... this is both intelligent and slightly titillating.....
I think we all know that's how Richard Spencer would like to dress, if he thought he could get away with it.
This was really great. It captured the feeling of how these 'debates' get out of hand, how I've seen friends and colleagues defend 'free speech' without regard for the content. I didn't understand the reference until the end, and I googled, and I really appreciate this nod to past works, though, going into this without the knowledge of The Rhinoceros, I got as confused and disoriented as the character was supposed to be. Very well done!
Why rhino?
You are a very talented individual. Your videos clearly take skill to put together and they're actually entertaining. So unlike most videos out there.
2:33 - feminists talking about men and masculinity ;)
Contra for SNL ^^
In my experience, it's not that hard to make a nazi fuck up and discredit himself in front of everyone. The trick is to disengage from the visceral response, push them to explain beyond the rhetoric & actually get into the guts of their ideology. Ultimately nazis either have to admit to a core value that is irreconcilable with modern western values, OR it will crumble under it's own lack of internal consistency it created by trying to fit them in. Best part is, you can do this while being totally civil.  Step 1: "Tell me more." Draw out their premise, play dumb and genuinely interested & at least present yourself as willing to change your opinion (even if you're not). Step 2: "How did you come to that conclusion?" Establish their train of logic, let them set themselves up so they have something they have to defend. Force them to keep connecting things they say back to their original premise so that red herrings become over-extensions that leave them vulnerable. Step 3: "How does this make sense in conjunction with X?" Act confused & bring up either reality or better yet a piece of their own argument that contradicts something they said & ask them to clarify (aka. dig themselves deeper). Step 4: "[citation needed]" Ask them to back up their claims when they make assertions beyond the credibility of the individual. Their credibility goes down every time they have to trace something back to stormfront, /pol/, or their own ass. Step 5: Repeat applicable above steps until the nazi has painted himself into a corner.  Do NOT under any circumstances resort to the moral argument. "Good people don't X" only works when you hold cultural hegemony or institutional power over the individual you're trying to coerce. If this is your go to argument because it's worked for you in the past...
Saul Salzman is hott
There's gonna be a lot of people who won't be able to see that this is satire. Not enough refutation.
it's videos like these that remind me why i began to question and dislike the antisjw/skeptic/"free speech" crowds.
Oh I really like the homage to "Rhinocéros" by Ionesco. It fits perfectly in the narrativ of the video! I highly recommend the play to those who haven't watched/read it yet.  Greetings from Switzerland (-> my english might not be perfect)
Well done My good Sir, I would take my hat off to you if I had one on. I think you have put your finger on the pulse, may it have been a very odd finger, on what these ideas are and how they can infect so easaly.
You should deal with the neo-Marxist framework progressivism is currently wrapped in. Since the death toll under left wing extremism is beyond par with right-wing extremism. I really mean that, genuinely, I think its important for people skeptical of your disposition. You say 2 sides to the issue. The current left isn't classically liberal. I think you are aware of that since you're a philosophy person, so, 3 sides to the issue?
Is this a man or a female? I suspect it's a cosplaying man. His/her face and neck look manly.  So many trap everywhere, first they came for anime, I didn't do anything because I'm not a weeb, now they came for the youtube vids...
Hmmm... baseless equivocating. Not asking for definitive, thoroughly studied evidence, moving the goal post, asking for agreement on a middle point as a doorway to agreement with an entire arguement, marketplace of ideas arguement, cloaking extremism in moderate concern, expanding outliers to include the entirety of an ideology/movement... yep.
Wow! I think this is the most ambitious and creative one yet.
So is Jackie a Republican In Name Only?
the guy on the left is the most rational version of leftists Ive ever seen, simply because hes not getting violent.  shadilay
That's right goyim, never forget the 6 gorrillion.
I love your channel, Contra, but debating your own strawman characters is like creating your own PVP game against easy-mode ai bots: you're guaranteed to win without any challenge. Fuckin slay those alt-right basterds in a proper/real debate; I know you're smart enough to do it.
That aesthetic though
Palestinians and Russian and Ukrainian Christians under the Bolsheviks should be asked how they feel about the non-violence of the poor, beleaguered Jews.
let's see whats this is about *sees face and it starts talking* I'm out
you sadly obsessed with the alt right.
Well there wouldn't be any problem with celebrating 'White' culture if many of them weren't also into racial scapegoating  and other forms of bigotry. & wasn't there some recent research showing that the 'Free Speech' bandwagon is just a convenient front for racism?  Same thing going on.
over the black rainbow is such a shitty movie
Maybe Jewish people just have a superior culture because they take pride in education and are not extensively religious as a group..kind of like the 'model minority' the Asians...who tend to make more money and do better as a demographic. mnn..Just saying - you would think the Nazis would consider that.
omg I am the classical liberal ;@; . ahg noooo . Though for real I have listened to a lot of what the alt right has said and found myself thinking 'hmn' in response.
This is some David Lynchian shit omg
Hell, wasn't one of Rubin's VERY-FIRST GUESTS Milo Yiannopoulos??  That should say all you need to know, really.  Even when Rubin's show was JUST STARTING OUT, he decided to pick MILO as one of the defining voices.  "Cultural libertarian", lmao
Is there anyone Rubin WON'T have on??  And if Rubin's show had any "point" to it... that's all long gone.  Considering the fact that he's the master of softballs, what does his audience "gain" from him interviewing them??  They're rarely challenged.  For a lot of his recent guests, esp. David Horowitz, Glenn Beck, and Brigitte Gabriel, one could probably read all of their books, peruse their websites, watch whatever videos they're in and maybe even read their Twitter accounts to FIND OUT WHAT THEY THINK!  And get a pretty-damn good idea, too  So what "new insights" are gained from having Dave Rubin interview them in the easiest of manners???  ...Rubin's show seems to get more and more pointless and devoid of any real substance by the day.  Maybe it was "somewhat worthwhile" in the beginning, but Rubin really jumped the shark.  Now it's just him interviewing random jackasses from all over the Right, alt-right and libertarianism while having on practically ZERO mainstream-left guests.  Though he'll claim they "won't come on to debate me because they hate other POVs", which is probably a huge lie.  I'm sure at least SOMEONE on the Left would love to go on Rubin's show, if not just to refute him and show what a hack he is?
Seems to me like the only person who usually "gains" anything from being on Dave Rubin's show is... Rubin himself.  Rubin can pat himself on the back for "having an open, honest dialogue with this huge variety of voices."  And then there are occasionally some extremists who also get a platform on RR they probably wouldn't get elsewhere that isn't already preaching to the choir, like that person's Twitter page, Fox News or Breitbart.  I suppose THAT person also gains somewhat.  They can say, "Aha! Look, I was on Dave Rubin's show, and he's a liberal, so I can't be THAT extreme!"
This is top-notch!
Contra, make movies. Actual movies. Please, thank you.
I have read the play 'the rhinoceros' in my theatre courses studying the absurd and was wondering why your video reminded me of it so much. It didn't click until around 8:50. Out of all of your videos, I think this is your best by far. 10/10
Alt-right has some good points about those who confuse their political party-line with gender-identity. Unfortunately, they missed their own point. You are not your political party's straw-man.
0:35  The Jehovas Witness of the future
I still can't work out if you're friend or foe...the youtube sceptic community (debate about if this is a correct label or not but I need to call them something) has lost its way and members continue to do or say things I don't agree with...but some of these points that I feel you have made an effort to discredit by making them come out of the mouth of a fictional nazi....My country has a good migration policy but if something like what has happened in Germany with mass migration I would have an issue with it...why don't we hear more from pro-migration sides about putting pressure on Asian countries taking their share of migrants?..Why is European pride a bad thing but pride in being an African, Arab, Polynesian, Hispanic etc not?  The mocking way you present these issues I'm not too sure how to take.
FYRCREF NJNXR RGREANY QNLYVTUG FUVARF?
Jesus Christ! some people are being slowly seduced by the Alt-Right. If there is one favorite passage in the bible that is my favorite, it would be this; "Beware of Wolves in Sheep's Clothing" as that sums up perfectly for these Alt-Right monsters.
Why are you roping Dave Rubin into this? He never interviewed a Nazi.
Is it really that implausible, especially given modern, not to mention futuristic technology that millions of people could be sent elsewhere? You're almost certainly right that some force would have to be used, but I doubt that most minorities would resist deportation to the point where violence was necessary. Even if they did, that wouldn't mean that they'd have to be exterminated. History shows that it's not impossible to force people onto boats and trains. The majority of Nazi supporting Germans were disgusted by the Holocaust when they found out about it, and it would be nearly impossible to hide that kind of information in the age of the internet. Very few people, even in the furthest corners of the right, actually want to murder entire races of people. As such, it's highly unlikely that an alt-right victory would result in a second Holocaust. At worst, the massive travel expenses would place us in debt and the deported minorities would have trouble adjusting.
You argue that Spencer's seemingly non-genocidal ideology is nothing more than a propagandistic cover for Nazism. However, one could just as easily argue, and many have, that your seemingly liberal ideology is a cover for a Frankfurt School conspiracy to destroy our cultural and familial structures in order to condition us into accepting totalitarian communism.
You seem to be suggesting that Roaming Millennial and others like her are turning into Nazis in a similar manner as the characters in Ionesco's play. However, I think the most probable reason she wasn't more critical of Spencer's views (as she was of alt-righters she's debated in the past) was because interviewing someone as famous as Spencer was very good for her channel. I'm sure she'd be perfectly willing (as would you, I suspect) to have Noam Chomsky on for a friendly, non-confrontational interview, and Chomsky's views are just as similar to Mao's as Spencer's are to Hitler's. Mao was a far greater mass murderer than Hitler, so why is it worse to interview Spencer than Chomsky?
God, this is so on point.  💜
Brilliant, as always.
That's .. that's actually a really good case for Nazism you've made there
Is nobody gonna explain the rhino?
Satirical demagoguery was a popular propaganda tool of anti-semitic publications like Völkischer Beobachter and Der Stürmer. You’re obviously a Nazi.
you're like the chris morris of social justice youtubers and that's amazing
Well Fritz you have me convinced....see Kyle
Brilliant! Contra perfectly portrayed "rhinocerization" with the Jackie Jackson character. Ionesco used rhinoceroses as a metaphor for the bestialization that occurs when average people start to conform with extremist propaganda. It just brutalizes and degrades your humanity, and it's what we see happening with the self-proclaimed classic liberal / center-right folks who end up low key sympathizing with the alt-right's rhetoric. Well done, well done!
I'm not sure which character is supposed to be the butt of the joke and that's something that's rare in modern comedy. Love the video
this is gay
I seriously can't deal with how attractive you are
Love the rhinoceros reference haha
Being concerned with white people is now Naziism? Good to know. I'll save you the trouble and just go kill myself.
I don't think I _quite_ understood what the deal was with the rhino mask.  Or if there was one aside from it being appropriately weird.  And was that ouija board spelling something?  It looked nonsensical to me.
I love you
I love this. I'm alt light. I can't stand antisemitism.
By far your best video
Oh i see its a dig at millenial woes. Contra and his naziphobia.
idk if you've already posted about this but what are ur preferred pronouns??
Hotline Miami 3 is looking really neat
Uhm... OKAY.. I'm a Nazi... This was bad satire. It actually inspired the "wrong" end
Contrapoints arguing for silencing all of the alt-right because some of them are like spencer. Personally i would like to see spencer censored myself, hes an idiot.
And the liberal host shows their true colours... I like what you did there.
Hallo Leute ;)
the Nazi makes descent points,are you sure you aren't just trolling?
i feel like i'm watching Contra vs Roaming Millenial Again.
Why is the Jew in this video so devoid of arguments?
Brilliant!!!
I love the Godzilla roar.
first i thought "pretty gay" meant twink, but now i realise it maybe means "rather uncool"
Is the rhino head a referenc to a movie or something that I'm missing?
A cup of coffee in my left hand, my cock in my right one. I'm ready to watch this vid.
The Truth has become an option.
You have really found your niche in life. If you can survive the booze habit I see a bright future. If you think the Nazis went away listen to Joseph P. Farrell.
This skit pretty much showed how the alt-right is correct.
I ship Saul and Abigail Cockbane
Brilliantly put.  I don't think the left realizes just how much damage they are doing employing the same tactics that they accused the right of doing (and the right did engage in those tactics).  Fritz was a very well thought out character, cause of how scary it is that many right (as in rational) thinking people DO have those same concerns, which is exactly how the nazis got power.  The government failed to address the problems in Germany and Hitler and co were seen as the saviors of the nation...and something that is not remembered is for a time he and co.  WERE saviors of the nation.  Germany went from destitution to powerhouse in a few short years.  Most Germans had NO idea of the true acts of the Nazis, but there was a bogeyman in their sights.  I forget the be-suited individual in this, but their tactics were awful.  The name calling, the adhominem attacks against Fritz, and yes, the near off the starting blocks, being offended from the host of the show.   The ending of this with the spirit board was baffling.  It was either a Lovecraftian message from hell, or a message coded by the hinted to Enigma.
Ausgezeichnet!
Really liked the play! Was it some specific scene in the rhinoceros by eugene ionesco that your play was based on, like the last scene in act II, or just the general theme of the play?
Where does a person get a rhino head costume? 😂
Contra, Hast du ein Moment? Ich würde gerne mit dir über die Judenfrage sprechen!
Cannot gush enough about your work, contra. Thank you for doing what you do. I admire your videos tremendously.
This video is actually making an excellent point about the Alt Right.
"What could I have said to change their minds?"  What about debating the points raised? What's wrong with trying to debunk so-called Nazism instead of insisting it be suppressed?
I love the use of the German!
...where did we go wrong with our youth?...
Did you sneak in a reference to Ionesco in this vid? Haha love it!
Lacie Green needs to watch this.
You are amazing.
Hey Süßer! Möchtest du mit mir einmal über die Judenfrage sprechen? 😏
idk where I am but I'm somewhere.   love you contra
Too bad Contra isn't this concerned with Islam and Feminism's cozy/weird alliance, and asking the exact same question: How could these 2 groups be agreeing with each other?
2:35  Nice "The Golden One" reference
Ma Carabine! Ma Carabine!
My favorite part is the comments because they are 100% accurate.
are you wiccan? love the scarf on your wall?
#FreezePeachSuppressionista
I like how it's getting weirder every time I watch.  Peace.
Do an episode on the Jewish Question ;)
This was great.
LOL "debating"? You make no arguments, you just "wow, I can'teven current year, wow!" Not an argument
As someone who sympathises with the Alt-right and felt that this video was a fair critique of the movement, what do you guys think are the main critiques against the points Fritz brought up?
why does the nazi get the best makeup?
Hey contra, I know you're an omnivore, but I'd LOVE to know your opinion on veganism! With the whole vegangains vs roaming millenial thing going on... Could you perhaps make a video on the issue? Thanks so much!
This is an unpleasant subject - but I'd like to see you comment on the "Skeptic Feminist" tragedy.  Especially since you've had many conversations with them in the past and were the last guest on their channel.
'Godwin's law. Godwin's law.'   Damn near pissed my pants hahahaha.
Contra is way to smart for Youtube, we don't deserve his brilliance.
Entertaining. The lesson I learned here is that there's nothing you can do to reason with a nazi. Edgy
Why did Contrapoints upload a Roaming Millennial video? I don't get it.
lol yeah that's actually exactly what it's like feeling disillusioned with white liberals
Do they like actually speak German?
Hilariously funny, plus this actually presents our (alt-right) viewpoint pretty accurately. I think that's why we will continue to grow and eventually win - our ideas can be presented in a way that appeals to many reasonable, regular people.
I appreciate this as a comedy about the equivalence fallacy, but I think Saul could have done a better job. He makes valid criticisms about the ideology behind Fritz's talking points and the fact that he was allowed on the show, but I think it would have been more effective and convincing to "muh freeze peach" types to directly address the individual arguments rather than the underlying ideology.
A post end credit scene? The hell is this? Disney?
sleepers awake eternal daylight shines
can u stop being multiple characters and just tell me what im supposed to think, im very confused help
"the best way to find out what their ideas are isn't to simply sit there nodding in agreement while a person who is frankly a propagandist sits there spouting racist kenards that are known to lead to violence"  Dave Rubin doesn't understand this. He's genuinely confused.
I think you look at debates with people who hold problematic views in a very negative way. A lot of the time these people who have bigoted views already have the platform to speak. I think it's important to have conversations and debate with them because it might convince someone who is interested in those bigoted ideologies to re-think that position by hearing the other side. Also the person with the problematic views may reflect upon what they're saying as they're saying it or may be convinced by the conversation, maybe not immediately but maybe it'll plant a seed in their mind.  And the debate could sway the bigoted persons audience as well . It will also give the viewers and the person debates  thie bigoted person a more well-rounded understanding of what they are saying so that they can properly critique what they are saying and refute their arguments. That is why conversations are important.
Contra needs to stop making Nazis look so sexy.
Really great video. I think the host is closer to Roaming Millenial than Dave Rubin. I also feel frustrated by Dave Rubin's interview style quite a bit, but he does have a reason for it. He has said that he softballs so much because he wants guests to feel comfortable enough to share their real views. This is frustrating to me since at the very least people should be made to explain themselves, but I understand where he is coming from.   There is a fundamental disagreement between some on the left and those on this free speech above all else group which is basically are people sheep or not. Because if they're not sheep you can let any one spout propaganda, but if they are sheep it's dangerous.
We truly live in the Weimar Republic. Just.....wow.
but every one of the statements fritz made had rational rebuttals. heck, after "you're just naming ceos who happen to be jewish" got responded to as "how doesn't mean they control the media" the obvious responses are a) no evidence of collusion has been provided. The top ceos in India are parsis but theyre not suddenly in a "Parsi conspiracy". existence does not constitute involvement. b) the majority of employees and top brass in the same companies they listed are not Jewish. So if a bunch of non Jews are also "in" on this so called "conspiracy" then that disproves the notion of it being a Jewish conspiracy, nor that Jews indeed control it. c) no evidence has been shown that, even if there is a conspiracy a la above and even if Jews are involved, their being Jewish is their motivating factor in being involved in this so called "conspiracy."  there's numerous leaps of logic which the rino wasn't seeing, and could have been clarified, and each point shot down. but alas.
Funny thing about white cultural identity in the United States is that its perceived non-existence is the result of other white people, specifically the "anglo" ruling class. Non-English European immigrants were all expected to let go of various markers of their cultural identity (names, language, in some cases religion) in order to gain some level of respect/ rights in the US. Those who held onto their culture (like the Cajuns) faced a lot of discrimination and violent assimilation efforts....Oddly enough this was something that could have been avoided if the prevailing attitude had been one of egalitarian multiculturalism.
contra is the only good political YouTuber right now
Wow, this is becoming its own mythology. I wanna see these characters written into a Star Wars style space opera. Like, I'll petition for that. I love how Fritz is intentionally played as very sexy and charismatic. I think that underlines the real danger of the threat, and gives the story a moral. Don't follow the smile into the grave.
that nazi is hot  jokes aside, this was so frustrating to watch because it's like that every time
So when are you becoming a model?   For...  Art.
"I prefer X pronoun" DONT CENSOR ME YOU FASCIST SNOWFLAKE  "I prefer to call my literal nazism something other than nazism" I RESPECT YOUR PREFERENCE  lmao omfg this is fucking perfect
Sleepers awake eternal daylight shines.
And now, everytime I hear "feeling fascist" by London After Midnight I'll picture you singing it dressed like that, damn hahahaha  but, honestly, great video as always!
What lesson is this video trying to teach? That we shouldn't engage alt-righters in debate because egalitarianism has no rational basis and so it is futile, or that rationality is inherently racist? That's what this video seems to be implying, which I completely disagree with.
Uncertain about the message at the end: "fyrrcref njnxr rgreany qnlyvtug fuvarf"
3:29 - Wow I can't believe you got JonTron on the show!
Very funny.. I think you encapsulated something very special in this piece.  Nice to see a lefty not misrepresenting our viewpoints for once. Or maybe you are /ourguy/. Your grasp of these questions seems to indicate so.
Honestly... I can't tell which of the three I agree or disagree with more.
The best part of this video, and this channel in general, is that I'd never heard of The Rhinoceros before, but after I google'd it I learned something new.  Thanks Nick.
oh yes attacking classical liberals hahaha. making saul in this video calm and reasonable? bullshit lol  never seen a leftie not screaming and bitching
OMG, how did you get to be so good =D  *Raises hand as a European Minor point: Holocaust denial isn't illegal in European countries to "prevent the spread of lies". It's illegal because the the Nazi party is seen as having been a criminal organisation, and because the promotion of organisations that deny basic human rights (because that's seen as encitement to criminal behaviour) are seen as a form of organised crime.   From a US perspective it looks like a "free speech" issue, and yes It's punishment of speech, just certain speech that's put on a level with say organising a money-laundering gig or other criminal enterprise, things also illegal in the US. (Of course I get that's a typical way of phrasing the concept, and it's a character, but have to point this out because European Nazis love to frame it as a FS issue).  =8)-DX
Contra drinks so much alcohole and still looks super fucking sexy slim hot in every incarnation. Brain still intact as well. Total wife material.
Nice Rubin Report burn.
Fyrrcref njnxr rgreany qnlyvtug fuvarf!  Indeed!
This cheered me up! Thanks mate!
...So this is how Hotline Miami happened.  Good to know.
how did you get so good at this so quickly
I came here to get mad at degenerates mocking my ideas but, they actually did a good job. Nice video
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rgEKWvMUwG4  For people who believe this is just white and black
when people think the alt right is an actual thing and it started out by gamer nerds getting mad at girls on the internet
Did I catch a Golden One quote there?
This was really good. Also, Infinite Jest is one of my favorite novels. Subbed.
What's the name of the Ionesco play this was based on?
White nationalism isn't extreme or wrong
This is stupid
So tell me, is this all just an elaborate "fuck you" to Dave Rubin, or does this go deeper?
This sums up the response I get in left-leaning circles when criticizing this "new brand" of the same old fucked up ideas.
jackie's hair is totally banging
How do you do your hair? It's gorgeous.
I am Alt right and i think this is pretty funny.
Top quality stuff.
Wow, beautiful writing! (And everything else.)
So are all these characters part of some bigger over-arching narrative?
u amazin'
Goosebumps..
Bruh, where'd u get them leggings??
This is amazing. The production value is fabulous and keeps getting better. And I feel weird because both Fritz and Saul give me feelings. :p
Nice Ionescu reference!
What I really want to know is... What was the Ouija board writing?
Came here expecting someone to debate, and probably crush an alt-righter. Was disappointed :(.
I want to come on to Jackie's show for 2 hours and only excrete exorbitant farts and scream primal grunts.  If you don't allow me to come onto your show and do this, you're infringing on my freedom of speech and therefore are a leftist cuckball taking away my guns.
It's a minor point but the lighting I this video was really very good. It was very professionally done and I'm sure a lot of work went into it that we don't get to see. Keep up the good work!
You're making nazis look pretty reasonable.
I love you Contrapoints.
contra seriously how.... do you do this... how can you handle having to deal with this type of filth and drivel in the commetns section. everyone down there is antisemitic and unhinged and delusional! its madness!
I would swallow Jackie's panties whole , no chaser.
Your various people are freaking hilarious. Damn. Love it.
When your censoring tactics gets so old that you can't even deplatform a parody Nazi. Good job people. Good fucking job.
SIgh. I'm such a Saul....and it's even less fun than it looks.
Jackie Jackson is hawt.
Sleepers awake. Eternal daylight shines. xx
Everyone should see this. Its bloody good stuff. [opinion]  one of the best things on yooochooob
Oh! The play about people turning into Rhinos!
You make everyone else's content look pathetic in comparison. I love how you put so much time and thought into videos made for such a niche audience (you have a lot of subscribers but there's so many in-jokes).  However, I wish you'd stop using animal flesh/secretions as cheap props. Just something to consider because I don't think anyone can say the animals deserve the fate they are met with. I don't know how to get that point across without sounding like an ass so let's just say "Make animals your friends not your food" <3
A communist army of a million strawmen can be raised with this
Excellent video, as always!  I've never really understood using Japan and other relatively homogeneous nations as examples of ethnostates. Japan is not exclusively Japanese; they just have stringent immigration and citizenship laws. Shinzo Abe has recently talked about preparing the country for an influx of refugees from the Korean Peninsula if shit hits the fan from heightened US/N. Korean tensions.  Anyway, I don't know if there's a way to convince most Alt-Right people of much. The only way I know of explaining systems of oppression to people who don't understand them from experience is to historically locate them, which is a tactic unlikely to sway Holocaust deniers.
What could you have done differently? Interrogate Richard Spencer's ideas more aggressively. If an idea is truly irrational to a nutty degree, only stubborn or crazy people will cling to it once it's thoroughly debunked. Climate change denial is popular with people who are desperate to be right and people too lazy to find the truth. Don't tell me you couldn't do anything to reach people when you're more interested in saying "but he's a Nazi" than you are in actually proving his ideas to be poor ones.
Was this a dig at Roaming Millennial?
This was appropriately uncomfortable.why the rhino mask, though? I think a sea lion would've been better. (seriously, is there a reason for it being a rhino or is it just substance abuse?
Only that you CAN calmly argue against ''white identitarianism'' as their arguments are either dull to begin with, or become dull with compared with any analogues.  There is no such thing as ''white identity'', unless maybe for some white people in the US... the if DEFINITELY no such thing as a European Identity. I am a Serb, I am Slavic, I have my own language and culture, more than 2000000 of my people were killed in WWII... which was done by people who are also Europeans.  ''White Genocide'' is a ridiculous concept because even the people arguing for it can't define what it means. It is like faminazis defining feminism, it changes once per speaker. Who is white? What constitutes ''white''? If it is by taxonomy than there are billions of ''white people'' which would include all Arabs, all Turks and 75% of Hindus. If it is just the Germanic white people (who are the usual proponents) than this would make less than 20% of the US ''white''.  The ''global Jewry'' maybe sounds coherent at first glance (many high ranking executives are, in fact, Jewish) but there is a healthy analogue, namely, the number of ''white Christians'' who are in top ranking positions. If you want to hold that hundreds of people who have nothing in common but their heritage are in a conspiracy than you would need to hold as likely the ideas of ''white privilege'', ''patriarchy'' and ''ingrained white supremacy'' as a derivative of ''all white people being in a conspiracy to oppress others''. That is an idiotic statement.  White identiterians are not Nazis, which is a boon for the majority of the current left, as Nazis held many ideas that the authoritarian left would like. WI are part sad idiots who have nothing going for them so they need to play on race (same as any other identitarian) and part disgruntled normies who are sick of being... well oppressed, because they were ''white''.  СЛАВА РОДУ!
I love the "Sie" joke! :D
3:35  1) Why doesn't the Left demand that Asian countries emit hordes of 3rd World immigrants?  2) Why is it that blacks can take pride in heritage, but when Whites do that, it is evil Racism?  Now, this drag queen presents these key questions, but doesn't even try to answer them.  The rest of the video is Nazi-Racist-Hitler shaming. This is the equivalent of what slut-shamming is for Women. Nazi-Racist-Hitler shamming is applied to White people when they express their own ethnic interest. This is wrong-think applied to Whites only.  So here's the summary of answers to those forbidden questions that this video mentions:  1) Why should Diversity be ONLY for White countries?  ...Because Nazis. You are a racist for even asking that question  2) Why should Whites be denied ethnic identity/centrism when all others are allowed to have theirs? ...Because Nazis killed people when they expressed their ethnic pride  That's it people. Whites should be willing participants in making themselves a minority in all of their nations because of the shame of Nazi-Racist-Hitler.
Could some please tell me if I should or should not be trying to secure an existence for my white children?
Haha, your videos are amazingly fun, and very well produced.  I'm just waiting for you to realize how weak the arguments for the left are.
Great video!  Saul makes no good points tho...  Hiel Fritz!
How are those live comments so accurate? Like holy shit.
Let me ask you, how well did giving a platform to Christians by the rise of the atheist youtuber’s such as yourself work out for their recruitment aspirations? Not well did it? In fact, their numbers have only stabilized now that they won’t come out to play much anymore. Hmm, it’s almost like they did better in the shadows. A loving god, to all us impressionable youngsters, should have been an easy sell compared to bringing back the Nazi’s.   However, you keep pointing out them “Nazi’s” wherever “you” think they might be, and armed with a complete understanding of what they are, we’ll decide if you’re McCarthy or Snowden.
I am always pleasantly suprised by your pronounciation of german words
You had so many good Looks. Also this was so frustrating to watch. Poor Saul.
This is earily close to many internet shows and to the way fox news have had certain discussions for decades as far as I can tell. The thouroughly unpleasant live comments, the pseudo-neutral host, the ease with which even the most obvious racism and fascism is ignored.
You know what I think would help: stop framing the issue as a "white people" thing. All human beings are violent and fearful and like to protect themselves, and if the conditions are right, we'll all slaughter each other like animals. I think we could just say "extreme tribalism is not good" and give examples of where it has led to negative consequences (there are far more than Nazi Germany). I think that would be a more potent argument against the alt-right. And then they would finally stop having to defend why they're "not Nazis". Cuz they aren't. The argument they are proposing has its merits too (stability is important). I feel like there is a *huge* middle ground that either "side" is completely ignoring for the sake of...what...tribalism? Left vs. Right? Us vs. Them? It's pretty much the same thing as the "problem" itself.
If only sjw side was as calm as character in glasses. But at least i know now that they hallucinate when they see a liberal. :P
Unfair, but funny)
those scenes where the interviewer has a rhino mask on reads like Hotline Miami hmmmmmmm
Read les Rhinocéros in Highschool...20 years ago...aaaaaaahhhhhhhhhhh! :D
Just started the video, popped to full screen, leaned back, picked up some food, then immediately HAD to pause it and comment 6 seconds in:  A+ leggings
Dave Rubin is a fucking puppet and he looks like one too
[slow clap] Congrats. Now I am alt-righter.
This is the funniest thing I've seen in a long time.
Did Nazis turn people into rhinos the last time too? or was that a dinosaur? Either way, I feel like there should have been more stampeding in this video.
Good work! I want to see you debating with Jordan B Peterson on gender issues and other stuff!
Watching this as a german is just too funny :D Actually your pronounciation is pretty good!
Great debunking of the patriarchy.
That was a surreal fever dream and I want more
Oh god, that was so upsetting to watch even though it wasn't real. You hit all the notes and now I gotta go stave off an anxiety attack, gj
I thought this was brilliant. As always. However, I feel like you are excusing the violence of 'the left' here.
This video makes me aware that we're lucky to have Milo, not Contrapoints as our nationalist troll. The poor people of some alternate universe have to deal with Fritz; who might as well be the anime-esque "final form" of Milo
The Ouija sequence at the end seems to spell:  FYRRCREF NJNXR RGREANY QNLYVTUG FUVARF  Run through a simple letter substitution cipher I get: SLEEPERS AWAKE ETERNAL DAYLIGHT SHINES  Now as to what that means, I have no idea...  Also, the video is amazing. Art.
Yay for Ionesco references.
This is too good.
WATCH THIS VIDEO AGAIN  but replace the Jewish man by Palestinian and the Alt Righter  by a Israeli and tell me how its not the exact same video with the exact same points.  When the American Alt Right say those things its a outrage when Israel do this for decades no one gives a fuck, in fact you are anti-semite just for noticing it.
"As far as I'm concerned, the Nazis died out in 1945." - To me as a German, this is probably the cringiest thing the alt right spouts off... Also, why do you not have a million subscribers, you're literally the best youtuber right now.
seriously though Contra the jew in this skit does not make a compelling case
Straight up, not watching the video but listening to it instead, this shit is indistinguishable from parody.  Fuck.
Fascist contra was quite likeable
Your Deutsch skills are frankly astonishing.
a youtube video drawing from a ionesco play? youre the coolest
I love how this cast of characters is growing. I think you have well over ten, and they're all wonderful. I wonder if it would be cool for you to weave an ongoing narrative through your videos, sort of like how Linkara does, though with less of a focus on Sci-Fi heroism and more on the doubtlessly wacky long-term interactions between your cast.
Is the message here "I'm going to double down on ideological seclusion and become even more inept at defending my beliefs". Is this really just spitting the dummy about people not removing all the ideas you don't like from media you watch? Y'all need to learn how the fuck speech works.   Have fun losing yet another un-losable battle.
Brilliant
Hey Contra, I loved the vid and thanks for giving me another acid flashback.  I get what you're trying to do but I wish you'd had your reasonable person character articulate the problem with the nazi's arguments instead of saying "Are you kidding me?" or "You've got to be joking!" so much.   Saul started calling out Fritz's bullshit in the second half of the video, but to anyone without a background in argument or logic it looks like Fritz is pwning him for the first have and all Saul has to defend himself with is an appeal to the absurd.   There's kind of a Poe's law thing going on here where it's hard to see that the nazi is being satirised. Most of the neo nazi propaganda that is convincing to so many people went entirely unchallenged.   I get that the point of the video is that nazis just shouldn't or can't be engaged with in debate, and I'm not saying that Saul should have argued against each of Fritz's points, I just wish you made it more explicit as to why. I would really have loved to see him expand on why it is that you can't debate a person who denies your right to exist, for example.  There's a lot of stuff in your talk with Ollie (which I loved) that could have been thrown in here to drive your point home better. As it stands the video relies pretty heavily on the audience being able to detect manipulative bullshit on their own.
Lol even out of Contra's mouth the "Nazi" talking points make more sense, and the person losing it looks like a crazy person. I'm guessing the portrayal was supposed to be the other way around. I'll be saving this as more quality "Nazi" propaganda. Contra makes lots of good points for ethnonationalism, gives none, not one to counteract or rebut them, other than outrage, and portrays an unbiased normie being won over by the sound logic. Lol.
Wunderbar entartete Kunst! :)
This was a very good remix of my video "the tim report: interview with a historian".  It had an extra character and more references to some things.  Appreciate the tribute contra!  https://youtu.be/VQo8G4FdtV0
frankly astonishing
A-fucking-mazing! Keep it up gorgeous
Ah! You referenced Rhinoceros! :D I'm so glad you did! I love this film if only for that! The harrowing thing of the play that I remember is not only everyone transformed into Rhinocerosses around the main character, but that he himself gives in to the pressure to become one, only to realise that it is too late! It's such a terrifying conclusion. Good luck with everything you do!
... ... ... that got real weird when the rhino thing started
Maybe an unpopular opinion, but I think Saul's my favorite character. It's just nice to have more Jewish representation.   It would be cool to see how he reacts now that he sees how serious this alt-right stuff is. I myself have been trying to get a little more in touch with my Jewish side. I've been thinking about maybe stopping by my old elementary school/synagogue for Shabat or something. And I got a Yarhzeit candle and attempted to recite the Yizkor for the one year anniversary of my baby weenie sister passing. I've been thinking more about wanting to help people and I've even been looking for a Star of David necklace. I'm not even religious or anything.   I'm not really sure why I've been feeling like this exactly. I mean, you would thin that the smart thing to do would be to lay low for a while or something, but I want to do the opposite.
Laci Green used to be the pink haired feminist. Now she is the classical liberal.
when you hate somebody's opinion so much but you can't refute them, so you dress them as a nazi, but even then, they look better than the "good" side
Saying people are going to make future concentration camps and you can get violent with them now is not a good enough excuse. You are becoming fascist to become heroes of stopping a holocaust that is not happening. The real natzi's didn't sneak up on people like this and act peaceful, their violent intentions where clear from the start.   You guys are doing violence and will get your azzes kicked and then claim victory when their is no holocaust as if you were the ones to stop it. many in the right are black as well or are friends with blacks and will fight natzi's much better then the left.   Many of the aggressive left are wussified weak pansies. you guys wouldn't be able to survive with out the right making your food and running industry. These artistic and alternative lifestyles are a luxury only a 1st world country with abundance can have. show some gratitude. you need the right more than they need you. You do over represent the arts and geniuses, but you are a luxury that provides no useful service for survival. But the right and real men will be there to protect you if literal natzi's ever come.
Ya see that smile? That maniacal grin on Fritz's face we see throughout the video whenever our host tells her Jewish guest to simmer down and "discuss this calmly and rationally?"  That's the last thing a fish sees before it's devoured by a shark. This is what flashes across a lioness' face just as it gears up to pounce on an unsuspecting gazelle. Neo-Nazis are predators, plain and simple. As Tywin Lannister observed, "the lion does not concern himself with the opinions of the sheep." Nor do these contemptible monsters show any sympathy for those human beings they've designated "Not True Human Beings."  No, I'm serious. Every time Jackie tells Saul to calm his tittays, Fritz is grinning like the cat that ate the canary. I WONDER WHAT THIS VIDEO IS TRYING TO TELL ME!
Discussion is useful, arguing is useful, debate... not so much.  The majority of the audience probably isn't going to get the difference between what constitutes a formal debate and a simple discussion and I can see why some would think that the formalities and niceties inherent in formal debate would confuse people on the fence about the issue into thinking one side is more legitimate than it actually is.  That being said, I don't think that's really an issue in the modern context.  Formal debate is not about changing the minds of the opposition, it's about presenting a position to the audience to sway them to your side and away from that of the opposition... But this is the information age, there are no real 'fence-sitters' anymore I don't believe.  Everybody has access to enough information, good and bad, real and fake and 'fake' to come to some sort of an opinion about Everything.  And they're coming to those opinions with a, for good and ill, more diverse set of basic assumptions available to them.  We have a generation coming into political awakening that largely hasn't had the benefit of living memory of WWII and the Holocaust, it's all just pages in a history book to them.  What were once considered basic inviolable platonic presumptions are suddenly open for question and criticism again for the first time since the OG Nazis rubbed the world's face in the ultimate logical conclusion of Racist philosophy.  I'd really like to discuss this further with you ContraPoints, if that were at all possible.
This is your best one yet, great work! I must admit though that the last minute freaked me out a bit.
Quality.
"Würde gerne mit dir über die Judenfrage sprechen" I was sure my years of German classes would pay off eventually. Good goof Contra, and even better vid.
Watching your videos is like chopping up onions and rubbing them in my eyes. Except instead of pain, im just in a state of mass confusion.
So goddamned on the nose. 10/10. bravo.
I don't remember the part of the roaming millineal interview where she turned into a rhinoceros. It must have been in part 2. I didn't watch past part 1. I figure most people had heard enough from him at that point....
You know you actually can debate nazis. The nazis didn't start out with such bad intentions. It is just that not nearly enough people went out of there way to debate or refute them while they were still allowed and so the nazis echo-chambered their way to hell.  Free speech is paramount not just as a principal, but a calling. You really should let anyone speak otherwise without hearing and therefor reacting to them you are ill prepared for when they rise in earnest. 90% of people don't listen to, or especially don't hear, anything, it is up to you to put debate to the center and force them to hear the debate out -- that way bad ideas, seemingly to you, don't come out of no where. Also, read a book you uneducated dyke! JK. Nice vid -- high energy.
The point is right there starting at 6:20.
Wow. Expert satire of exactly what goes on. Goddamn 2017.
Lol at the copy of "Infinite Jest" on the shelf.
dave rubin is such a bland youtube personality. he depends on these fascists for a paycheck tbh
What a curiously absurd parody.
LOLOLOL triggered! Get culturally enriched to death by a pack of vibrant diversity!
I have a brother named Saul whose to the right. He's nowhere near this polite. :P
lmao @ "DEUS VULT!"
Wow, your videos are AMAZING!
Sabbed, right in the cucumber. Cucumbers are not junk. Neither are genitalia. My precious jewels are not junk.
I hate liberals
Those of us on the progressive left have all been Saul to a degree at some point. It is truly frightening how hyper-nationalism is on the rise again, and how no one can recognize it for what it truly is: Evil (or something resembling an anthropomorphic rhino... not too sure on that one). We can't fuck up like our ancestors. We can't keep ending up like Saul. We need to quell this beast before it gets out of hand.
So, I get the point of it all, the metaphor and all that kindasorta, but...  Why a Rhino? Just... Rhino why?
*slow clap*
Ive been waiting for someone to do satire of Dave Rubin for such a long time. You fulfilled my dreams Contra.
The following argument has often been made on this channel: If you look like a woman, talk like a woman but identify as a man: you are a man.  Nonetheless, here we see the opposite. If you look like a nazi, talk like a nazi but identify as alt-right: you are nazi.  These arguments only seem consistent if the discrete categorization of a political views  is significantly easier that gender. In reality, both of these concepts seem very complicated and lead to a spectrum that, for the most part cannot be fairly classified with labels. Am I missing something?
SLEEPERS AWAKE ETERNAL DAYLIGHT SHINES
Only when a journalist is prepared to ask serious questions and critically respond to answers, instead of letting people get away with BS, are they prepared to give a good interview. You're obviously parodying Dave Rubin here and you're right that he's weak on this. David Pakman does a much better job. You should check out his interview with Shirley Phelps Roper.
THIS IS SUCH A BLATANT ATTACK ON ROAMING MILLENNIAL AND I LOVEEEE ITTTT
This video elicited from me a series of short, high-pitched, spasmodic sounds which are very hard to describe with words.
Contra trying to trick us into exposing ourselves to fine art under the guise of gameplay.  And goddammit it's working.  https://books.google.ie/books?id=FJJEAQAAMAAJ&pg=PA120&lpg=PA120&dq=ETERNAL+DAYLIGHT+SHINES&source=bl&ots=gLVBCDpC95&sig=WlzQat_dgHdm8wZ36OL0QDmXgjY&hl=en&sa=X&ved=0ahUKEwiIpKf8_vrTAhXBJMAKHV7vBSgQ6AEIMTAD#v=snippet&q=ETERNAL%20DAYLIGHT%20SHINES&f=false
I don't understand the ending.
The code at the end is a Caesar-13.
your videos are the absolute best!
FYRRCREF NJNXR RGREANY QNLYVTUG FUVARF
Also, I like that you couldn't even pretend that international finance and the banks aren't inherently jewish.  Don't forget the media! ;)
Clearly, only a Nazi would care about a future for white children.
Hey ContraPoints can you recommend some movies like Neon Demon that you like? thanks i love u
is it just me or is your use of pronouns all over the place in this. I mean tell me, is Fritz male female or something in between? I find it quite hard to tell as you alternate the pronouns used for him/her/etc throughout this. Is it the host or the suit who is misgendering the Nazi? Was that something you intentionally wrote into your sketch or is it a relic of your personal feeling out with this sketch? Also is there anything that can be taken from the clear division of role and expression which is displayed. you the clearly male sociologist, the clearly female host and the entirely ambiguous Nazi?
This is great <3 as a sidenote though, the amount of people using contras random-ass mix of pronouns honestly makes me have a little hope for the future . Contra is contra , a brilliant mind regardless of their gender ^_^
Holy shit a rhinoceros reference
HOW DID THAT 6:53 BECAME MY WALLPAPER ?!!
So where can I got to get Fritz elected? This video was a total riot Contra I loved it.
I fear that this is exactly how the U.S. will descend into fascism over the coming years. It will likely drag the rest of the world with it aswell.
Israel is securing the future of jewish children and no one bats a eye, when a white dude say the same its a outrage, Alt Right is just Zionism for white people and yet Liberals dont treat Zionists the same way the Treat AltRighters.   They are all shit from different pile but its the inconsistency that bothers me  Israel is doing everyday for DECADES what the AltRight only dreams  of, yet  NO ONE GIVES A FUCK
Nice use of the Dave Rubinesque intro there.  The point of the Rhinoceros mask sequences - the host is a stupid animal blundering around & has just switched targets?
Notice that the rational person that sees a nazi is also hallucinating a rhino....
what I really see is both saul and fritz are far leaning on their policy and propaganda to even consider each others points
Sleepers awake eternal daylight shines  NOTICE ME SENPAI
Debate Richard Spencer.
Hallo Leute! I died.
And then shit got weird.  Can't say I care for the clone debate format, though this was a pretty good use of it.
Watched this twice. Second time with wine.   Wine makes this far better, if that's even possible. Okay... wine makes it so I don't punch my screen because of the *need* to make this video, because we should all know better... but of course there are certain, uh, Golden?? shiny people who decide to take off the lid of their Nazi shaker and "accidentally" pour it all over their caustic nationalism when they just meant to sprinkle it on.   Fun fact: Sprinkles of Alt-Right Naziesque Uber-Nationalism is not glitter. The more you add, the more fabulous it does not make you.   Now I need to go take a bath and douse myself with milk.   Keep it up @ContraPoints! Love your work! <3
Socialist leanings? NAZBOL PARTY, IT IS THE GANG FOR YOU AND ME. NAZBOL PARTY, TO KILLE THE JEWISH BORGIESIE!
This video is a great view into the mind of a SJW. I imagine it must be a nightmare.
I think I've heard the name Contrapoints before, but I can't be sure. I ironically enough found this video while going through Steve Shive's twitter (because I'm blocked by him, and had to log out in order to see it). I agree with Steve that this video is very well written, produced, acted and edited. So in terms of sheer production quality, for a Youtuber, it's on the very high end of the scale.  To get back to Steve Shives, I suspect he agrees with this video because the rhetoric of the white nationalist side is dressed up as a Nazi, and so he takes it that that is what his opponents are, and what Contra-points thinks, that those who are against Shive's political believes are well Nazis.  I however, do not know what exactly Contra-points believes. It could be that the "actual" point of this video is to illustrate the problem with the "SJW" view of the world. We have Saul on a couple of occassions hallucinating Jackie to be a rhino while she's talking about/to Fritz, and so this can be Contra-points saying that SJWs have mental problems or are unable to understand or parse arguments that do not fit their own narrative.  Or is it as it appears - that Contrapoints is saying that arguments against modern social justice, those who are against Anti-fa/BLM, those who argue that racism against whites is a legitimate issue that must be explored...are simply Nazis who want to bring about a white supremacist world?  Where it not for the Nazi uniform, the stereotypical speaking in German, I would call Contra-point's depiction of 'the alt-right' to be more or less accurate.
fyrrcref njnxr rgreany qnlyvtug fuvarf sleepers awake eternal daylight shines Nope, not ominous at all. By the way, the cipher is ROT-13.
This new season of Twin Peaks is depressing.
This is perfection.  Contra, you're a fucking genius.   This is pure genius. Goddamn. I'm fucking floored.  I dream of the day films are more like this and less like... what they are now. 
stop being so cute goddamn it
GOD THIS WAS SIMULTANEOUSLY EXHAUSTING, ORGASMIC AND NAUSEATING.
my stupid babby brain doesnt understand the point of this parody someone please explain
TFW the points are accurate, we almost never initiate violence, you recognize we're doing the same as everybody else, but we're still the bad guys.
Agni, the Hindu god of fire, rode a rhinoceros (ramad). Is this why the character 'Jackie Jackson' is wearing a rhinoceros head- to symbolize how destructive people like her can be? Or am I just reading into this too much?
are you alt right? this video seems like it's on that side
This video made me a Patreon!
kewt 7:59
Years from now, when children have to learn about the rise of fascism (again) in the West, this will be part of the curriculum.
This is SO GOOD. Thank you!
Hey conrapoints... getting better at this, props! But for me to start respecting you again (arrogance -yaya) you must tackle someone with substance instead of this clowns and strawmen. Analyze Jordan Petersons video... any of them, be bold, grow, graple with substance. Even if it's a porly written video, I promise to become patron again, and you'll also benefit for making this a more interesting bold and growing discussion. Do It, gods will smile upon you then!
The acting in this is legit better than some movies
Shouldn't the Rhino Mask be White?
That was hilarious.
So has your mind changed any on the idea of punching Nazis?
why are you so amazing
Is this a surrealist art installation?
The pentagram tapestry is pointed down in closeup shots. Inconsistent, 0/10, all points made in this video are null and void. /s
I live for the shade thrown at Roaming/Rubin
Hahah, you added the Golden One's personal mantra about hating "the international Jewry" and not individual Jews. So good, Contra! You've outdone yourself this time.
What reactionary, pearl-clutching, "left-wing" garbage. I know this was intended to be a parody of liberals and the alt-right, but it comes across as an unintentional self-parody of leftist idiocy. I like how you're trying to pretend like people with different (terrible) ideas are worse than people committing violence. Pull your head out of your ass and listen to the logic of your argument. You're fine with authoritarianism and violence on the left (because...reasons?), but you're against peaceful, rational, and civil debate with those who espouse bad ideas? This is why nobody takes the left seriously anymore.
PERFECTION
I am trying to figure out the coherency of the issue.    Is what Contra is saying everything is allowed for free speech no matter how dangerous or depraved, or how destructive to society except white nationalism.     Are there other topics not fit for debate?    Which ones?   What makes it not fit?
Two things  1. Your ability to accurately capture disparate people's personalities with nuance is astounding.  2. Some of these people need to be recurring characters in your videos. At this rate, I can totally see this channel blowing up in popularity
That was so fucking good.
spot-on characters
Dude looks like a lady.
Antifa are dangerous thugs who scare me.
Probably my favorite Contra video so far
I fucking love you.
YES! THIS!
"I'm a classical Liberal" XD 
Et tu, M'aiq?  (at 1:38)
Brilliant as usual.
I'm really pessimistic on how those Laci Green interviews are gonna go.
Is there some sort of symbolism or metaphor for her head being a rhino during the acid trips? Is it just freak factor? All I understood was shes an animal but I'm not sure thats' what you were going for
SLEEPERS AWAKE ETERNAL DAYLIGHT SHINES
This was an amazing... Amazing job!
Those live chat comments were totally unrealistic! They didn't have NEARLY enough grammatical errors or swastikas.
you looked so good in this video I'm in dire need of CONTRAception I'm sure I'm the first person here with this joke and thanks for not proving me wrong bye
Abby is a crazy TERF cause she uses the Ouija Board. Got it!  XD
As someone who likes a lot of your videos, I think you're missing the main point about Richard Spencer.  1. The main concern is that people too easily throw around the label of Nazi. And that if we give in to the idea that Richard Spencer shouldn't be allowed to talk, it won't just end with him. It will spread to others. And this is the main motivation people have for defending Spencer and having this absolutist approach to free speech. All the arguments that you brought up, while they are definitely made, they're secondary. They're justifications people give for this fear of the Nazi label being spread. We saw how quickly people labeled JonTron a Nazi, or the kind of protests against Jordan Peterson and Charles Murray. All people I'm sure you would disagree with their ideas, but would not classify as Nazis.    2. I'm pretty sure most people are fine with Spencer being labelled racist. The Nazi label is a bad one, not just because of the above, but because it allows him wiggle room to wallow in the specifics of what classifies as a "Nazi." Which should be irrelevant. Because Spencer is just really racist. And stupid.  3. I don't think Roaming Millennial just sat there and agreed with Richard Spencer. Spencer kept trying to evade the more "unpopular" parts of his views, but she pressed on him until he admitted them. I'm glad she did the interview, as I knew very little about Spencer's exact ideology until the interview. Which showed that he's not only really racist, but has a ridiculously naive view about the world. (He thinks we would be colonizing mars now if it just weren't for dem minorities.)    I agree with Rubin Report though. The interviews I've seen of him, he just lets people spout shit unchallenged.
Disagree with ContraPoints about practically everything, and certainly with the message of this video. Having said that, my sides hurt from laughter. Hilarious and clever!!
God, I fucking hate the Rubin Report and "classical liberalism."
You're a lighting champion!
holyshit this was so well done. good on ya contra.
I'm not capitulating!
Rhinoceritis or Alt-Rightis?  ...Altritis?
This was great
Fantastic, definitely gonna have to go read that play now. And also Max Horkheimer's "Eclipse of Reason" is another great explanation of the past and current outbreaks of Rhinoceritis.
I think this is my favorite thing Contra has ever made. I love his other stuff too, but she really crushed it this time.
The only thing missing from the Live Viewer Responses was something like: "He's not making an argument. He just keeps repeating himself!!!"
F R A N K L Y   A S T O N I S H I N G
I just took an IQ test on line. When I clicked for the results, all of reality faded away and I found myself putting a green glowing crystal into a clear crystal recepticle...  I thought - I recognise this crystal from an eriee night in-which I was drawn to my parents barn when I couldn't sleep...  The glowing crystal slipped from my fingertips into it's designation. An energy arose and formed into a giant image of a elegant yet stern and muscular man who started speaking words of wisdom with a distant look as though reading from cue cards...   It was then I realized my true destiny...
Is this the level of argumentation that these people are at? Are these the actual arguments that The New Fascists are actually using? Because that's piss poor. I could dismiss all of those points, or explain why they're fellacious, and I'm an uneducated plebe from southern illinois!   In fact, I WILL DO THAT!
This video replicates reality so well I was almost too pissed off to watch the whole thing.
What do you guys think about his/her "Russian" friend that murdered Ivy?
8:04 "the evidence is the historical record"  So, does this apply to the suppression of dissenters and the Cultural Revolution?
No, you're meant to wave and say "Hi, Leut..." _lowers arm_ "...I mean, hello everybody!"  And a very accurate depiction of The Rubin Report and Steven Crowder.  I would hope that Laci Green's efforts would go a bit better than this.
Jackie is such a cutie
This was cool & all, but you just broadcast a lot of right-wing narratives largely unchallenged (most of it was just "you can't be serious?"). You kind of contributed to the thing you are criticising in the video.
Contrapoints? more like Contra on point! Excellent video as always
this is beautiful
I wanna talk about this whole Jewish conspiracy thing, cause either it's gotten more popular, or I just happened to run into a few mentions of it in a short time frame. Also, my biggest gripe with the alt right is WHY'S RACE THE BIGGEST DEAL?! Race really isn't that big a deal...
Liberals are Nazi sympathizers. Noted.
This is the type of video the alt-right would make as a parody of people like you.  The left will always devolved into self-parody.  They lack the self-awareness to realize they're doing it.
haha this is amazing.. And i quite like Milo...
This is fucking art
5:06 it's just a (((coincidence))) goy!
This wasn't the video I wanted, but I think it's the one I needed right now.  I like how no one in the debate was actually good at anything.  The Nazi was a propagandist, the "Classical Liberal"  was just letting the Nazi spew propaganda unchecked, and the Leftist was so bewildered that they couldn't seem convincing in the moment.  And I don't know what the hell the other one was on about.
I'll donate as soon as I can I promise. What is this enigma ?? im intrigued
Anyone else look at that cucumber and think of Mr Pickles?
The "impartial" Classical Liberal host kills me because it's accurate of many of those types: the pretense of being completely open and objective yet deeply unaware of their own cultural and ideological biases.
6:30 who is Tim Pool? Who is David Rubin? Seriously 'classical liberals' are politically shallow. Who bases their ideas on an ideology followed by the founding fathers, the same founding fathers that still owned slaves and denied everyone but themselves the right to vote.
I don't need them but shout out for putting in subtitles, I saw the thread on that other video where one of your fans asked for them.
This was so entertaining !
okay watching this high was a mistake
Irgendwie ist mir Fritz lieber als die beiden anderen😄
sleepers awake eternal daylight shines
My favourite part of the whole thing was the viewer who kept making pervy comments about Jackie.   Actually it was the creepy rhino thing.
"sleepers awake eternal daylight shines" is the code at the end
The tide is starting to turn.  Roaming Millenial's days of walking on water just because she was "nice and polite" to "everyone" are starting to slip away.
Jews the real master race.
furrcref njnxr rgreany qnlyvtug fuvarf?  The heck, ouija, are you dyslexic?
If the only choices to make are between antifa and the alt-right, I might as well drink myself to death. Happily, that's not the case. Once you accept the idea that race=culture, you'll wind up with fascism, because no negotiation for living in the same space will ultimately succeed, and finding everybody a happy and homogeneous homeland is impossible.  Ask anybody to sit down and plan the logistics and they'll give up and pull out a gun. You don't have to hate your race to place multiculturalism and peace above racial pride. I'm not sure why this isn't obvious.  But the extreme left is not a great option, either. Once you place social identity and equality above individual identity, you're on the slope to the Gulag archipelago, whether it's the communist utopia or the racial alliance you're going to end up submitting to. The sanguine notion that that can't happen quickly seems to ignore all the historical cases where it has.  Violating the government's monopoly on violence in self-defense is permitted, but preemptive strikes aren't recognized by international law for a reason. The incoherence of the antifa is a fatal flaw in its ideology, and its violence flows from that. But the coherent version isn't much better: don't ask me to choose between Hitler and Stalin. I choose neither.  Playing the classical liberal, you put the individual identity first, and then engineer the social situation to be both as inclusive as possible and alienate its members preferences as little as practical. None of that means you have to lose arguments to Nazis.
This is easily the best video you have ever made. Honestly It was fantastic. It's not funny exactly and made me depressed more than anything but it really has got me thinking. Honestly great job.
lmaaao contra this all came from the streams you did, didnt it
This is a profound public service/depraved art show.  I love it!!!
Is it me or you are also making a critique of hiper moralism and lack of aesthetic appeal on the part of the academic representatives that you see in mainstream debates the way you have done it before?
Oh my God. You're hot as a girl. You're hot as a nazi. You're hot as a guy. All in completely different ways.   I don't know how to deal with this anymore.
It's both sad and funny that the live viewer responses are incredibly accurate
I <3 your pentacle wall hanging.
This is why evil tends to win before anyone has time to notice. Its much much easier to be evil.
can you explain the rhinoceros pls?
Well, I sure did not see the rhinoceros head coming.
sick synth noises, did you record them?
I've probably written this several times before, but I'm glad that I've finally found a feminist/SJW channel that is actually high in quality. Your arguments are high quality and your jokes are high quality. I disagree with you though. If we can't argue sucessfully against alt-righters, we simply just need to become better at it. The reason people are so bad at it right now, is that they haven't had the opportunity to argue against those views for a very long time - we need practice. If we are right, we will win.
Is Jackie inspired by Dave Rubin in any way?
*applauds* That was wonderful.
Würde gerne mit dir über die jude frage sprechen 😂👌🏻
That was way too real
Contra you magnificent person, your videos just keep getting better.
The nazis can sweet-talk all they want but their "muh ethnostate" is simply not possible. We'll leave them alone so they can pet their bruised egos and they'll slip back into irrelevance once again. The SJWs are useless, they can't even take part of a conversation without starting hallucinating shit. We gave them a chance and they blew it, it's over. We Liberals will win in the end, no doubt about it. =)
I love you. Truly and madly and deeply. NEVER FUCKING CHANGE
I just want that rhinoceros mask 😍
This video made me want to be a nazi.
I loved the Ionesco reference 😂
This is so quintessentially the randomness of internet comments its art.
I do enjoy you trying to say Roaming had a bad interview. I do believe in constructive criticism and I have no doubt Roaming will respond to you :D. For the def. of nazi, when Richard Spencer starts violence and censors people, i'll start calling him a nazi. Also you referring to Roaming as a monster is a bit disingenuous. Although you calling roaming a rino, are you calling her a republican in name only? Enjoyed the video can't wait for the drama between you and roaming on twitter. I am a on roaming's side btw :P
It's cool to jerk off, online.
I had to look it up because I'm not a theater major : Rhinoceros (French original title Rhinocéros) is a play by Eugène Ionesco, written in 1959. The play was included in Martin Esslin's study of post-war avant garde drama, "The Theatre of the Absurd", although scholars have also rejected this label as too interpretatively narrow. Over the course of three acts, the inhabitants of a small, provincial French town turn into rhinoceroses; ultimately the only human who does not succumb to this mass metamorphosis is the central character, Bérenger, a flustered everyman figure who is initially criticized in the play for his drinking, tardiness, and slovenly lifestyle and then, later, for his increasing paranoia and obsession with the rhinoceroses. The play is often read as a response and criticism to the sudden upsurge of Communism, Fascism, and Nazism during the events preceding World War II, and explores the themes of conformity, culture, mass movements, mob mentality, philosophy and morality.
As crazy as this vid gets, it's depressing how close it gets to reality xD
oh my god you're just so fucking good
Honestly hard to watch due to how spot on this is.
The thumbnail made me think it was you and philosophytube again
As Contra's videos get better, they also get sadder.
hahahahaha that was great.
Theres no such thing as an alt right figure, it's like trying to debate an ideology
wow. just wow.
Abigail's cameo oh my god
So in other words, after being a guest on Roaming Millenial, you had her come over to moderate your show for a change?
'Prominent Tweeter'
(((autistic screaming)))
HOLY SHIT IMAGINE BEING ON SHROOMS OR LSD watching this video 😂😂😂😂😂😂😂😂😂😂😂😂😂😂😂😂😂😂😂😂😂😂
FYRCRREF NJNXR RGREANY QNLYVTUG FUVARF
I like how you mix up all the gender pronouns :)
Was i the only one seeing a parody of "the Rubin Report" on this? Or am i wrong?
This video was a goddamn masterpiece The creepy music over Jackie turning into the rhino was genuinely unsettling (but maybe I'm just a wet blanket).
Your best video yet
This is a piece of ART.  Stray observations: 1. Love the subtle Aurini skull in the background. 2. Is "Sie" pronouns a German pun?  I'm amused. 3. Love how a gender studies grad student is looking for a totally random course 4. "I find this frankly astonishing!" 5. Love how Fritz cheats out to the audience, but Saul doesn't.
i found it hard to find what the satire in this video was aimed at. it felt as though you were making fun of the liberal and the nazi yet the whole time most of what the "nazi" said wasnt actually devoid of fact, and what the other guest said to "refute" the nazi didnt really settle the question. and seriously every point the liberal made about being open to differing ideas and allowing decenting discussion i found myself agreeing with. saying, we shouldnt allow these id3as because we know where they lead i think is a false comparison. these ideas are not exactly the same nor are they being implimented in the same way or in the same enviornment as they were in germany. and to just brush off the "nazi's" argument as if that equivalency is a fact is dishonest.    it felt like your targets were nazi ideolgy and how liberals allw it to bubble up, but i mainly just found myself agreeing with the liberal in this sketch and either finding what the nazi said irrelivent or unrefuted. im not sure this sketch got your messege out in the right way.  still like your content, but i can see we dont see eye to eye on the state of affairs in this nation. of course that is the current plight of the nation atm. no one sees eye to eye. which is why i think no platforming only helps isolate thise who have the worst ideas. (which is a bad thing in my opinion) if you are unwilling to hear the other side, or let others hear it, people will be less inclined to believe your description of that side or individual. people need to see bad ideas for themselves, not be told which ideas are bad and which are good. when presented in contrast, people make their own conclusions, they are evelutionarily enclined to do so. in isolation people conform to the group. this is why cults restrict "bad" ideas from their own ideas.
I find this frankly astonishing.
Was this video inspired by your recent appearance on Roaming Millennial's live debate thing?
This Roaming Millenial parody is just brilliant.
Even fewer regrets of siding with you over Kraut. That guy has burned bridges on both sides. Fucking nut.
Genius.
HOLY SHIT!
For those wondering about what s/he was saying with the Ouija board, shift every letter forward 13 places; "Sleepers Awake, Eternal Sunlight Shines.
Hm this got me thinking. I'm very left leaning in general and I'm in favor of the anti-holocaust-denil laws in Germany. That said I experience the right-wing existential dread you talked about in an earlier video. I fear the loss of culture, world views and art. Will or should there at one point be only one culture? Will the earth just speak english and all other languages are dead? Will we become the "last human" Nietzsche wrote about? Maybe we should leave cultures behind and become individuals. Anarchie maybe? Hm I don't know. Anyways protecting cultures through discrimination, segregation or mass murder is not the solution. Do not forget and denil that everybody. History teached us all.   I'm sorry for not furthering the discussion of your real theme: Debating the alt-right.  Dein Deutsch ist sehr gut, die Kostüme sind fantastisch. Insbesondere deine Nazicharakterin. Und du hast sogar auf den Alkohol verzichtet. Insgesamt großartig. DANKE
I love this video. At school, homophobic, racist, transphobic, sexism, etc. ideas are perpetuated. The word "faggot" is thrown around like it means nothing, women are regularly verbally and sometimes even physically assaulted in the hallways and in the classroom, and the idea that transgenderism should be illegal is popular. This makes me feel very alienated from my peers, and I think this video does a great job of capturing that emotion.
This is so great
You are the best youtuber.
I appreciate that you use this sort of thing to simulate dialogue but I find this one to be a bit of a straw-man. I believe that a popular following legitimizes an idea and once that happens any attempt to delegitimize them actually makes things worse because of a combination of the push-back effect and driving ideas into safe space bubbles.   Both anti-identity politics and social justice advocates agree that white identity politics is bad and we could have already collectively demolished our common enemy if only social justice advocates would admit that the alt-right already have a significant following and are therefore already legitimized.  I believe that the only way the fascists win is if they are allowed to continue employing intellectual guerrilla tactics until they are at a majority. I believe that on a level playing field out in the open their ideas crumble because their ideas have potential that is more dangerous than death-camps.
"fyrrcref njnxr rgreany qnlyvtug fuvarf" Does this mean anything?
Hi disagree, as I usually do with your videos, it's an interesting idea you hold, glad to have watched.
This is actually brilliant!!
Damn it, I love the exchange but my eyes keep going down to the live chat comments.
You made a Ionesco reference, I'm forever slightly in love with you now.
wow. your german is actually pretty good!
Whats the significance of the rhino? or is it just pure absurdity?
Is it just me or is the freedom report trying to make run of Dave Rubin.
I think Social Justice Theatre of the Absurd is my new favourite thing.
"Free speech for ME, not for THEE" = Mentality of the alt-right and their enablers.  As for said enablers – on both the liberal "left" and the "libertarian" right – freedom of speech does not mean entitlement to publicity. And it certainly doesn't mean claims rooted in ignorance and lunacy ought to be given equal consideration to claims backed up by evidence.
Only 4 and a half minutes in and this shit went full hotline miami
She is my favorite YouTuber oml I love him
Bravo CP!  Bravo!
Holy shit. You're going to be very well known, very soon.
Am I the only one that's become desensitized to seeing Infinite Jest on bookshelves in YouTube videos at this point? It's getting to be the Stairway to Heaven of the YouTube bookshelf playlist! At any rate, I guess I'm going to have to look up the play that Contra's referencing now, continue to drown my perceived inadequacy in media knowledge until I finally start HRT and work to become the multi-media experimentation butterfly I've sought to be since, I don't know, middle school, I guess. Embrace the absurd!
Some moments were giving me an Eraserhead vibe.
contra you have very good resting nazi face
Amazing <3
is this ironic?
Brilliant as always.  Also you look dam sexy as neo-nazi .  Luv and Hugs  Ep (pip pip)
I felt kind of sick to my stomach watching this. Made me wonder if all of this is inevitable, if there's anything I can do anymore to stop this. These are such bad times.
Those Natsee looks though.
Top notch stuff ! Keep it up :D
I'm in actual literal awe of the direction in this video. Your videos just keep getting better.
Google David Lane & The Order and you will see there is a history of violence in the USA by "White Nationalist"
Gotta love Abigail Cockbane swooping in with a hot payload of sanity, like a glorious cargo eagle.
I actually aced "Body narratives in traditional Chinese medicine"
Disappointing but I'm sure it will get you views and Patreon dollars so congrats, and as others have said the video is very well done. I'm not sure for whom you made this video? The people I presume you are most concerned about are RoamingM's followers who watched Spencer's "Interview" and felt sympathetic afterwards. I doubt they will be convinced or swayed away. Ideally, perhaps, RoamingM could have you on her show and you could refute Spencer's points.
Look the brainwashing worked. Logic turned off.
The live comments were pretty dam accurate. You didn't even exaggerate lol.
"I am a classical liberal, and i believe that reason - nay, truth - shall prevail. So, Fritz, what were you saying about the Jewish question?"  I had to stop the video right there, I was laughing so hard. Man, that I can only offer one like to this video.
This touches upon something that came up a lot in the comments of a video i posted last week about how we should be challenging Charles Murray and his race science ilk. It seems that you feel similar to how many did who challenged me. And though I do get this video's point that we are seemingly slipping into insanity and absurdity, I do think that the "sane" character in the video seems to be making a case that I feel isn't an example of the uselessness of attacking Nazis but of the failure of the left to debate Nazi's on a proper footing.   We should not look at this as "reasoned debate," this should be (and God I am sorry to say this word) pwnage. The Roaming Millennial stand-in character is awful and her desire to establish a "both-sidesism" thing is phoney and biased to the more duplicitous side of the "balanced debate"--much like the old "Hannity and Colmes" format. But Pwnage and total resistance is kind of called for in these encounters. That will work with these scared pussies masquerading as Himmlers. We should never be assholes when arguing with them (because people hate assholes) but we should be relentless, dynamic, and unbending. We should be confident. I think the left, especially the intellectual left, is too cynical and critical (in the theory sense) to understand the dominance politics that goes on in a  lot of these discussions.   And I think that the left rarely chooses to "accept" the Nazi's arguments to attack them, expecting to impose some "common social understanding" to police comments like "Jews control media" or "Blacks are genetically inferior". We refuse to get in the muck on these horrid premises, because we don't want to legitimize the question, but it was asked. It would be a shame if it went un-answered. I think we are scared we will lose these debates out of our own failures and and be responsible for setting back diversity and anti-fascism even further back. I heard echoes of this when Garrett said this week that he trusts Kristie Winters to debate anti-feminists but not Laci Green. And I confess, he isn't totally wrong to fear this. But I think this "fear to engage" is visible to everyone. That should be a call to action, though, on our part. We need to bone up and combat arguments.  I admit that I don't know an effective rebuke to the "Jews are all CEOs" answer, but I am confident there is one. And I should probably absorb it and have that at the ready. I'm glad you highlighted it in this video.   The Roaming Millenial interview of Spencer is enraging, but it is happening. And people are listening to it. They have a platform, and I don't think we can stop that. Not totally. Our mission has to be to dominate them. And I think that is going to take some practice, some sharper arguments, some discipline, and a shit ton of confidence. Showings of dominance, like H. Bomberguy's rapier wit or rocking a black leather corset with fishnets while arguing race science. Things like a sense of humor and a blythe casualness goes a long way. Has Abigail Cockbane or the man in this video ever won an argument against a conservative? Much less a Nazi? But nothing quite wins like preparation and facts.  If we don't combat these people in debate, they are going to be the only person talking. And people tend to listen to the only person talking, be it Rush Limbaugh or Jared Taylor. And again and again, liberals and leftists will find ourselves talking to smaller and more isolated audiences.
Also, the cinematography is brilliant.
I consider myself a classical liberal (probably the label I apply to myself which you would be most critical of), but I absolutely love your videos and deeply appreciate your perspective.   I suppose my response to this video would be that, classical liberalism (as I understand it) does not mean we must give a platform to every side of every issue, but certainly, we cannot establish a culture in which it is acceptable to suppress or respond violently to speech we disagree with. To be clear, by suppress, I don't mean to not invite people from certain ideological camps, but rather to interfere with their events once scheduled. We should instead read up on the arguments, on their positions, on their talking points, and come ready to demolish their deeply flawed beliefs.
SLEEPERS AWAKE ETERNAL DAYLIGHT SHINES
Changing the white nationalist's mind would be difficult. To sway the viewers you would need to find a common ethical standard to build a narrative on.  The viewers to be swayed usually detest identity politics. Therefore you need to come up with arguments that support peaceful coexistence.  And that peaceful coexistence comes with being fine with appropriation when it occurs. There's room for preservation and appropriation here. That's part of what this big melting pot is all about.  Playing identity politics plays into the white nationalist hands, especially during a period of demographic turnover. It bolsters their "why not us" argument. I would suggest abandoning it or change course on messaging in an effort to lessen their anxieties.
>leftists are getting violent because their lives are directly threatened confused as to how that justifys someone pepper spraying a girl with a make bitcoin great again hat or someone who simply supports trump
I'm confused- why can't you actually disprove all their points, one by one? Like, yeah the Nazi was just trying to convince people of their views but the central person seemed to genuinely want to know stuff despite their awful views, and maybe with enough talking and calming down and playing things in a way they understood, arguing point by point, creating impenetrable factual walls of arguments, maybe the central person could be slowly, veeeery slowly, over the course of days or weeks or months, be convinced that maybe listening to Nazis is a bad idea.
Is the point of this video that the alt-right has logical arguments that people can't refute? Surely that cant be it.
The ways your videos attribute liberal ideas to conservative topics and vice versa is always very clever
OMG the (((autistic screeching))) live response floored me.
I think Contra said his preferred pronoun is "He"? He is a transvestite (freedom of gender expression), not a transsexual person who have gender incongruity (due to intersex condition of the brain-sex wrt to the sex of the body -- an issue of Gender Identity). But regardless, I think he is cool too.
So Amazing!  You make me want to step up my game!
Is this how you felt debating Claire White?
Another amazing video! My only concern would be that you make even the most loathsome people so likeable through your portrayal, though that only reinforces the wholesomeness of your message :)
You're a fucking genius. Good job!
reddit.avi
I just lost my job this week and this couldn't have come sooner. God bless your fucking soul.
the scene with the rhino was genuinely terrifying and I had a pit in my stomach
Yeah, that's…pretty much what it feels like.
You are criminally underrated. Fantastic video. Loved the Rhino bit, actually creepy and surreal.
This had a linear narrative structure, and is therefore not theatre of the absurd.
The Alt-Right in a nut shell
lmao
Another great video. Also what does the rhino symbolize? What did the Ouija board say??????
Saul has been the most strangely normal looking representation of your ideals we've ever seen on this channel.
The pretty woman with the valley girl is behind all of this playing this "contrapoints" personality and making up these characters.
Contra, you are the hero the left both needs and deserves. This was the perfect satire of people like Dave Rubin, Roaming Millenial, and all the other classical liberals™️.
I want to swallow jackie's panties whole, no chaser.
I'm a White Nationalist and this was amusing. Creepy at times but amusing.
I'm only 2 minutes in, and I can already tell you, this is fucking brilliant.
Feels like you've been more visually and narratively experimental recently. I like it <3
This was very disturbingly accurate. D:
I guess people dont see right wing identitarian politics as harmful because for the past 5 years they were led to believe that left indentitarian politics aren't harmful
Are those real quotes from the comments left under your last debate?
"If lots of CEOs of media outlets are Jewish, why doesn't that count as evidence of Jewish control of the media?"  The heads of almost every major business, Hollywood production company, police service, and government enterprise across North America and Europe are white, but why doesn't that count as evidence of racism and anti-minority bias in most of the Western world's institutions?  And yes, I know Contra isn't really serious about the remark, but there are those who are and those who are serious about often also deny that racism actually exists, in my experience, anyway. Why is this justification for a Jewish conspiracy, but not a white one?   And, to anyone who's ever asked "What could I have said?", I've come to find that the answer is nothing. Sometimes, you just have to let people come to the realization on their own.  Finally, love the video, as usual, Contra! :D
i love u contra 💚
Hey, I'm impressed by your German.
the live viewer responses oh no
And the Award for best political comentary on youtube goes to.... Contra for making us afraid on how the extreme right has gained credibility through "rational discourse"
Jackie seriously needs to lock that door... Nazis and feminists just keep waltzing right in!
Literally just had a conversation like this with my brother's friend about the Civil War.  The South isn't evil not everyone who fought for the South promoted slavery, the Confederates weren't even about keeping slavery.  Why can't you honor great Americans like Robert E Lee by keeping the statue and Confederate flag? This is all Leftist censorship over feelings
Subtle.
Its so scary how these people will tap into the small parts bigoted parts of unsuspecting subjects and intellectualize and validate their bigotry FOR THEM.
Well that was upsetting to watch. Those tweets were so spot-on it was scary.
I love when liberals proclaim that the best ideas win while simultaneously believing that colonialism wasn't so bad, white people ended slavery, and Winston Churchill is a war hero.
This is getting ridiculously brilliant. It won't be long before a major network buys them out.
God, is this really what liberals stand for? I've thought of myself as one for years, but I don't want that if it means tolerating fascist ideologies.
From the production, I assume we are supposed to sympathize most with the leftist character at the end. But after watching, I still don't understand his perspective. Why is the classical liberal character so obviously monstrous to him? What is wrong with simply hearing ideas you don't agree with, and acknowledging that some things they bring up may be good points? Is it just the fact that "classical liberals" aren't pointing out the Nazi's weak arguments vehemently enough? I still found myself agreeing with everything the centrist said up until the final ramblings about "primitive people"--and I don't think that what the character was expressing in the beginning would necessarily lead to that line of thinking at all.  Or was this video not meant to explicitly illuminate a certain perspective (like the Nazi punching video)?  I'd appreciate any help with this, I guess mainly from anyone who identified most with the leftist character.
amazing
Mate, I fucking adore all these characters you're creating. It's the best!
Such an amazing response to the roaming millennial situation and the alt right Nazis. I hope she gets it, but chances are she won't. people who present themselves as reasonable never seem to understand how wrong they are.
Is this guy a failed man? If that's the case, there's no reason to argue with mental defects.  https://youtu.be/ZgE5w73i2Js
I lost my shit when the rhino appeared LOL!  pretty great video
"Never believe that anti-Semites are completely unaware of the absurdity of their replies. They know that their remarks are frivolous, open to challenge. But they are amusing themselves, for it is their adversary who is obliged to use words responsibly, since he believes in words. The anti-Semites have the right to play. They even like to play with discourse for, by giving ridiculous reasons, they discredit the seriousness of their interlocutors. They delight in acting in bad faith, since they seek not to persuade by sound argument but to intimidate and disconcert. If you press them too closely, they will abruptly fall silent, loftily indicating by some phrase that the time for argument is past. It is not that they are afraid of being convinced. They fear only to appear ridiculous or to prejudice by their embarrassment their hope of winning over some third person to their side." -- Jean-Paul Sartre, "Anti-Semite and Jew"
I think I solved the cipher at the end:   SLEEPERS AWAKE ETERNAL DAYLIGHT SHINES  FYRRCREF NJNXR RGREANY QNLYVTUG FUVARF  The letters at the end. What do they mean? Let's figure it out ! :)  I took every "sssck" to be a new character.
Contra's revenge on Roaming Millennial. lol
The comments in the video..... you pulled them from the RM livestream, didn't you.
I love the Eugene Ionesco reference.
Is the rhinoceros hallucination a reference to Ionesco's play?
"SLEEPERS AWAKE ETERNAL DAYLIGHT SHINES" , possibly.  Tried to use 56 as a key in a Gronsfeld cypher, which is pretty much just Vigniere with a number key, but didn't get much. Affine and Caesarian also didn't work. So we used a generic Cryptogram guesser instead. Googled "FYRRCREF", saw it was used in another person's cipher to mean "Sleepers" so this confirms the message. Nothing really came up when decrypted message was googled, so looking forward to enigma 2.
DECEASED
This is the problem with respectability politics. People become more concerned with "how nice, rational, professional and peaceful  you are" THAN YOUR ACTUAL IDEAS ANS WHAT YOU STAND FOR. Its how these so called "news outlets" become enamored with the Richard Spencers of the world:  Upperclass "handsome" white guys who dress well, talk eloquently and is someone you wouldn't mind taking home to your parents if you dont actually listen to what they say. Its how these people become more inclined to defend actual Nazis and white supremacists than their victims who are RIGHTFULLY ANGRY AND AFRAID. Anger and rage are completely natural emotions in response to shit like this.....I actually dont trust people who arent at the very least disgusted by these rat-faced hoes.  These people are literal Wolves in sheep's clothing; the minute they get actual power "peaceful transition into a white ethnostate" MY ASS.
Most if not all media is driven by the want for maximum viewers and this gives a platform for hateful crackpots to spread their message. This could be seen as a problem but denying the platform to a particular way of thinking ensures the ideas are more intriguing to those that are not aware of them. I feel the right thing to do is try and use that platform to spread ideas of compassion and understanding. All we can do is hope people agree with us. We cannot demand they live as we do. Peace.
the derealization is real.
This sums up my experiences in high school history and english classes.
loved the live viewer responses
The alt-right keeps waxing nostalgic about the "good ol' days" when white supremacy was granted and sanctioned. If memory serves correctly, we spent a notable slice of that time killing Nazis without fear of reproach from snobbish weasels. Maybe it wasn't all bad after all.
Classical liberal: "All sides of an argument are worthy of equal consideration!" Academician: "I refuse to refute inherently harmful and ridiculous ideas because I'm simply too astonished anyone would consider them!" Nazis: "Lol, good. We'll secure a future for our glorious race with coded language while the (((cucks))) run around with their pants down. Praise Kek."  Man this is way on the nose. Fantastic video, really gave me chills! I can only hope this will inspire some important people to not let the alt-right dominate the "debate" by refusing to play along.
Wow, poor Saul. I went into this thinking it was a debate video like "Punching Natsees" but it was way more one sided. Not complaining it was just unexpected.
Fuck, I was just thinking, if you named your character Jackie Jamie Jackson, then you would be "The JJJ".
I don't ideologically identify as a person who is ever wrong.  I wish people would stop resorting to buzzwords like "false" or "incorrect" when they debate me.  Can't they just confront my ideas on my own terms?  Those terms being that I am always right?
Stop burning the books you're scared of, and start criticizing the bullshit in them.  The way I see it, you don't have to debate or discourse with any one you don't want to. But if you're intellectually equipped to oppose nazi/white nationalist ideals and choose not to, opting instead for moral indignation, you're doing us all a disservice. Debating someone like Richard Spencer does not "normalize" his position, it actively dismantles it.  By no-platforming/rioting/censoring, you show the general public that your political positions don't stand on their own, and you actually make people more sympathetic to the opposition.   TL;DR You can have criticisms of false neutrality types like Rubin, but just sitting there indignantly does nothing to oppose nazi ideology. Nor does rioting and punching them.
Funny hat wearing contrapoints argumentative calculus is profusely prescient and rigidly stringent. Dorky looking contrapoints just inadequately grouses about "muh holocaust, muh historical precedent". Are we to deduce the truth of the dork based soley on status signifiers? For he has no arguments to present. How can you call yourself a student of philosophy and simultaneously imbue historical transpirations with a philosophical conclusion for which no epistemic warrant was exists? Are you not shamefaced?
Dave Rubin would love this  lol
A little hyperbole. I have to admit though, there was some cringe. Overall I enjoyed it.
fucking brilliant
I get the intention of these "debate" episodes. But in terms of entertainment to education ratio....these are pretty weak compared to your other videos. Two groups talking over each other for 10 minutes kinda drags after a while, personally.  I guess I like your "Contra explains ______" videos the most.
I've been reading Zweig's "The World of Yesterday: Memories of an European" lately. What goes on with the Alt-Right honestly worries me. Thanks for making me smile once in a while, du großartiger Bursche du. I'll call you a lady next time, ok ;)
I watched this twice to go back and read all of the live comments, and I'm notmadaboutit.jpg My favorites were (((autistic screeching))) and what does jackies nipple's look like?
cutest nazi i've ever seen
This was fucking amazing! You are getting better and better.
I loved the style parody.  Im going to make a twitter account called YggrdrasilLumberjack right now.
i love et
Now do one where you dress up like Linda Sarsour.
Yeah, I'm going to have nightmares tonight.
is this video about lacy green or dave rubin?
That savagery on Roaming Millennial though. 🙌🏼
Interesting video with surprisingly fair representations of either side. You're one of those YouTubers who I don't necessarily agree too much with but watch anyway because you tend to still make good arguments (and the recent upswing in production quality pleases me!) which is more than can be said about a LOT of other people. I think many things you say are logical and science-based enough to kind of just boil down to personal opinion rather than "sigh, this moron can't get anything right" so kudos to you for being not just a tolerable but even enjoyable way for me to see other perspectives with decent arguments :)
Love the Rhinoceros reference. You know that most of the ''opposite side'' see you as a communist Rhinoceros. And while Ionesco criticized both extremes of the political spectrum in his play, you only seem to be focussing on one. Do i sense bias????
sleepers awake eternal daylight shines...
4:11 clever allusion to Ionescu's play 'Rhinoceros', about a whole town turning into rhinoceroses/nazi's.  From an interview in 1970 (as quoted on Wikipedia:) "University professors, students, intellectuals were turning Nazi, becoming Iron Guards one after another. We were fifteen people who used to get together, to find arguments, to discuss, to try to find arguments opposing theirs. It was not easy...  From time to time, one of the group would come out and say 'I don't agree at all with them, to be sure, but on certain points, I must admit, for example the Jews...'. And that kind of comment was a symptom. Three weeks later, that person  would become a Nazi."
*frog emoji*
ok I'm ignorant: what was the rhino bit parodying?
Wusste nicht, dass du Deutsch sprichst :o! Gute Aussprache!
Even as satire, I still felt frustrated on Saul's behalf.
the alt-right character was a pretty good Richard Spencer impression, congrats on another amazing video and a painfully accurate piece of satire!
Best channel on youtube.
You are the most beautiful person inside and out o youtube. <3
So this was basically your response to roaming millenial...
If you want to argue with neo-nazis and not directly compare them to Nazis, use other genocide examples, the Rwandan genocide is the only one that doesnt have a cult of revisionist denial so start there. comparisons to South African apartheid are also good.
The quality of your vids are amazing!
I'm not sure quite what I just watched, but I loved it!
Let's just hope Abigail isn't heading for that kind of Leçon.
magnificent *_*
I performed in a production of Rhinoceros in high school and this is one hell of a nostalgia trip for me.
Possibly the strangest part of all this is that rational skepticism has always been part of the humanist movement, while national socialism (read: Na-Zi-ism) has typically been a rejection of humanist values for the sake of the more existential, 'might makes right' philosophies. And a lot of the time I think college-educated philosophers take it for granted that the acceptance of human life as an end in itself (self being an expression of natural order) is something rooted in scientific enlightenment, and diametrically opposed to nationalist ideologies in which life is a means towards an end (the self and its natural order sacrificed to the nation's ideology). Part of educating the masses is making them aware of this clear opposition.  I mean, I assume that this new facet of the war arose because people are attracted to the idea of "having been proven" rather than the idea of actually "proving". Rational skepticism is highly respected, and labeling oneself as such seems to garner that respect (even just as self-respect) without actually earning it. Skepticism concerns itself with argumentation, not blatantly stated conclusions. I'm hopeful because humans have at least come as far from WW2 as to abandon irrationality as an accepted mode of conduct. Now they just need to be entirely clear as to what true reason entails.
At least 75% of the people screaming at the top of their lungs about how much Nazis, white supremacists and white nationalists deserve "freeze peach" are gonna be Nazis themselves by the end of 2017 lol.
Dein Deutsch ist gut! 👌🏾
Classical liberals just got roasted.
At least 75% of the people screaming at the top of their lungs about how much Nazis, white supremacists and white nationalists deserve "freeze peach" are gonna be Nazis themselves by the end of 2017 lol.
fyrrcref njnxr rgreany qnlyvtug fuvarf
I love the shade on Rubin Report lmfaooo
There are already Abigail Cockbane accounts in the comment section... Not much longer and there will be a ContraPoints Wiki cataloguing all her characters, plotlines, etc.
Keep it up! Looking forward for more videos from you, don't stop!
I like! Keep it up!
I don't want to objectify you or anything Contra but man, you look so hot in every outfit. You look amazing in that suit.
Great video! Keep it up
What I get from videos like this is that, to those who fight for social justice, that "justice" doesn't mean equality. It doesn't mean nullifying White Privilege so that we're all on an equal playing field. It means redistributing Privilege to POCs so that they get a turn at it, and Whites can go without it for a while.  To SJWs, logic is based on justice (revenge), and to non-SJWs, logic is based on equality (racism).
absolutely stunningly well done.
This is literally my new favorite video.  The ze pronoun bit killed me.  Listening to literal Nazi propaganda without any critique to the point of complicity?  "Rational" and "reasonable."  Asking someone to respect neopronouns?  WHAT FASCIST NONSENSE.  My spirit is only a little broken.    Thank you, this video was incredible!
For people interested https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rhinoceros_(play)
At the rate Contrapoints lore is going, here's hoping we see "Militant Autist" and "Otherkin Separatist" characters soon.
The monsters live inside of us. It's easy to point at external forces and say 'there is the evil in the world', but as we change, the people we see as the enemies also change. I think that's how nazis are made, when people forget that they can be wrong, and the 'enemy' subtly shifts in your mind to target conspiracies, minorities, jews etc. What you need to be most vigilant of is that you don't join them. Punching nazis is one thing (and a good thing), but don't forget to punch your latent inner nazi a few times too.
This is wonderful!!! Well worth the wait and something good on a day where I find out Chris Cornell is gone.
Eugène Ionesco , ha
The production quality just keeps getting better and better! Must be all that George Soros money you've been collecting.
Wow! At first I was being sceptical - Why is Contrapoints being so inflammatory now? The best thing about him was he was level-headed, calm and rational in his approach and now he's just resorting to easy caricatures.   But slowly as the surreal came in, I suddenly realized that this wasn't just a satirical piece but an honest homage to surreal French theatre. You lead me on, just as the best performances did to the audience decades ago - Truly a great artistic performance.   Now if you'll excuse me, I have some poor people to laugh at, because clearly I'm upper-class scum.  Best wishes a conservative European.
I came got the discussion of if you should debate Nazis  stayed for the rhinosaurus conspiracy
Oh my god.
Is it just me or does it seem like Contra exists within his own universe? Like, all his videos have been of himself in the same two or so rooms. Like, if he brought in another person, it would be jarring.
I think one of the things that I love more than ContraPoints's smooth, supple body is how well he expresses other points of view. They legitimately don't feel like strawmen arguments, if a little exaggerated for humorous effect.  Also, Infinite Jest sighting!
So, you said there's a way to tackle these talking points by 'not the nazis', and that the way roaming did it was wrong, so genuinely curious how would you do it?  Also great video as always :)
"Fyrrcref njnxr rgreany qnlyvtug fuvarf"
"He said he isn't a nazi, so it must be true!"
Fucking brilliant.
Rhinaziros
Masterpiece. Not even being hyperbolic.
I love you so much, ContraPoints.
Oh! Look out! There might be a dead pixel or two on your camera sensor! It might also just be the ISO, but I think I see one every time we're on Jackie.
@contraptions you should make a video on how diversity helps everyone including nature and make jokes on how stupid absurd a white nation can be. Question their reason for this inefficient and dangerous need for segregation.
"Fritz, würde gerne mit dir über die Judenfrage reden" :O  Brilliant video, ContraPoints, one of your very best
FYRRCREF NJNXR RGREANY QNLYVTUG FUVARF
The live viewer comments are so accurate it hurts
You don't have to give equal time to both sides of an argument if one side is full of shit.
God, this was infuriatingly accurate.
i feel like i should stand and clap for some reason
The ending is borderline avant-garde. Also great video I really agree with the sentiment. I am getting really tired of people trotting out the golden mean fallacy when they talk about modern politics.
Dis is really good. :3
Live comments are 100% accurate
I take this is in some way a reply to Roaming Millenial?
All that chroma masking , no wonder it took ages  it all about debate narrative , or overton window , or permissible debate  i was expecting nyarlotep  just jump at the end  Does anyone feel brave enough to work out the oracles code , i wonder what type of it is if it is  cypherable
Wow. Teach me how to video.
Thanks for the nightmares, Contra. This was "fuciked".
omg, The Ionesco Rhinoceros reference. Love the video. This is the truest depiction of a liberal on youtube.
This is just so accurate it almost saddens me   You are one of my fab youtubers Love from Portugal <3 <3 <3
6:53 "You have to exercise discretion about what views are worthy of being heard!"  I agree. We should purge all Marxist influenced ideals from schools. I mean, look at the history! Millions died as a result!
Good sign: Already laughing straight out of the gate with Jackie Jackson lmao
this was strange and it made me laugh I have know idea what you are spelling and spelling ain't my forte
Your Pepe-esque shit eating grin is real good
Contra walks into a store looking for the following props:  Ouijia Board Rhino Mask Cucumber lots of neon lights even more alt-right/neo-Nazi/FREE THINKING RATIONALIST talking points
I've never been this early before! This was amazing, thanks so much for uploading
1) is there Authorial Intent behind the specifically-rhinocity of the mask? 2) amazing
ahhhhhh WATCHING THIS AT WORK WOOO FUCK CAPITALISM
Fasntastic as usual, the hypocrisy of roaming millenial is something to remember.
droppin' those theatre of the absurd references 🦏
Those live comments were too realistic. ContraPoints must have spent an ungodly amount of time on alt-right message boards. I hereby extend my sympathies.
very dishonest on your part. you misrepresent every other position.
I've been a patreon-supporter of the Rubin Report for some time now, and the reason has nothing to do with Dave's opinions, which I find excruciatingly non-committal. I support him because I see that seat as the place where guests are expected to give the strongest case for their side of an argument. That THIS is their chance to tell the truth as how they see it.  However, since I know he doesn't challenge his guests' viewpoints, I've found that the only way to watch his interviews is with extreme skepticism and scrutiny. To not get caught up in appealing rhetoric, to look for comments that challenge the argument made but are charitable to the interviewee, etc.  Has he had far too many right-leaning libertarian guests on to talk about the regressive left? Fuck yes. But occasionally he'll get a gem in the studio (Eric Weinstien, Dan Carlin, Jordan Peterson, Sam Harris) that makes the dollar a month worth it. Idk if I can handle another "Rubin's Take on X" segment though.
getting mad is counterproductive in a debate. You can't bring subjective views on an objective act like reason.  Debating is an art... just like mathematics and it takes hours of observation to do and understand. The school system never showed how Nazi's come into power and there is our problem. David Hume has an  excellent instruction book on  how to debate. Laugh at the absurd contrapoints, its the only way to win.
This must've been a bitch to script and film. Really appreciate the effort :) Great video.
Als jemand, der gerade in Deutschland die Wiederauferstehung rechter Ideen mitverfolgt, macht mich das Video etwas traurig - die Uniform wiederum sieht aber echt gut aus.
ok, high production standards, that's why I keep watching. The message of this is not good for me though.
YouTube doesn't deserve stuff that's both this entertaining and important. Also I know those tweets at the bottom were satire, but the distance between the joke and reality seems to be getting disturbingly close *laughs nervously*
Great video as usual. However, I do see some inconsistency regarding who should be deplatformed. There is a strong bias depending on which side of the political spectrum you're on. With that in mind, should the Authoritarian Left (Stalinists, Maoists, etc.) be deplatformed along with the Far Right?
Fuuuuck I'm pretty sure if "Fritz" was not just a character but your actual online persona she would be one of the biggest Shitlord/Fascist channels out there. You really captured their appeal. That's a very scary thought ... but more importantly  "SPRICHT MIT STRENGER, AUTORITÄRER, DEUTSCHER STIMME" Fritz muss dem Bärenjuden überantwortet werden!
If you don't get the Rhino reference, please read more. Fucking brilliant video Contra! This is hands down 26/10 the best YouTube video of the year so far. Well done, you've pushed me, you got yourself another patron on patreon or PayPal or whatever you use
Fun Game: Find and replace "Fascist" and "Nazi" in this script with "Communist". Would Contra still agree with his slant here?
Holy shit contra, you captured the absurdity of conversations like this so well
Thanks  for another  amazing  video.
Nazi are so effective recently.
I'm curious, what is it with the rhino head?
Saul looks like John Cusack in being John Malkovich, Jackie Jackson's hair is on fucking point, and Fritz smiling legitimately creeped me out.
this is so beautiful please be my wife
Gotta love the Ionesco reference.
To be continued??? COCKBANE RIIIIIIIIIISE!!!
you changed my mind
I did nazi this coming ;)
Geniales Video! Ich frage mich, wie viele Leute es wirklich verstehen.
This was pretty frustrating to watch, but it was also very good. Honestly, this is what it usually comes down to when you watch a debate with these kinds of people. I don't know what I could say either to convince anyone's mind on the alt-right. Their viewpoints are almost too ridiculous to refute, because there's already vague "evidence" that they can use. But, as usual, they never understand that there's a series of complex social and economic reasons for why things are the way they are.
STRAAAAAAWWWWWWWMAAAAAAAN
has anyone figured out the riddle at the end?  FYRRCREF NJNXR RGREANY QNLYVTUG FUVARF  the fuck does it mean?
Poor RickyT.
this entire video was an excuse for him to wear the corset again
I'm going to have to rewatch this just to read the "live comments" Really funny stuff, keep it up
FYRRCREF NJNXR RGREANY QNLYVTUG FUVARF = SLEEPERS AWAKE ETERNAL DAYLIGHT SHINES in rot13
This is getting really meta and I like it.
SLEEPERS AWAKE ETERNAL DAYLIGHT SHINES...
sk sk sk sk sk sk sk sk sk sk sk sk sk sk sk sk sk sk sk sk sk sk sk sk
These surreal interludes are dope. Great work Contra!
"What could I have said to change their minds?" Well, for a start, by not imagining that's the purpose of the debate in the first place - that's just downright arrogant to assume you have that much power over other people's minds. There are two purposes: either you demonstrate the weakness of the other guy's case *or* you draw him out and let him dig a deeper and deeper hole until he's made an ass of himself. At which point, job's a good 'un. His ideas are disgraced.  What you *don't* do is bestow on him the mystique of a rebel and a dissident by no-platforming him. That will actually make his case more attractive than it actually is - even more so if the best you can do is keep repeating over and over 'He's a Nazi' and 'I can't believe this!'.   And finally - definitely *don't* make an argument for discerning good from bad arguments before they've even been heard. That just confirms you as elitist snob who has the right to decide what other people get to hear or not. *That* is a sure fire way to make an asshole seem edgy and alluring.
Fritz is the only Nazi I've ever fancied
I love  this!
The production value on this one was so off the charts that at some point I actually started wondering if I was watching another weird movie in my old film class again
🍼👌
sleepers awake, eternal daylight shines! what a grand and intoxicating innocence.
I knew it was an Ionesco reference! Really appreciate the homage
So this is you making fun of roaming millennial for talking to Richard spencer?
This is perfection.
This video is SJEW Hotline Miami
I'm gonna preemptive this one: Just because someone is a nazi doesn't make them inherently wrong. They're wrong because their arguments doesn't hold up to logical scrutiny, not because they are dirt bags.
This was so great!
fyrrcref njnxr rgreany qnlyvtug fuvarf ???
🐸🐸🐸
The most interesting and intellectual sjw on YouTube, I was very entertained by this.
Subtle eye makeup; very subtle.
this is magical
"social justice theatre of the absurd" i love you contrapoints
WHAT COULD IT ALL MEAN!!!!! ... I mean with the Ouija Board thing, I seriously have no clue what you were spelling.
Yep, this is by far the best video you have ever done. Absolutely superb.
*FYRRCREF NJNXR RGREANY QNLYVTUG FVUARF* 11:30 - 12:00 What it means? *Edit*: Thanks to the people above me, aparently this means:  *SLEEPERS AWAKE ETERNAL DAYLIGHT SHINES* being Caesar Cipher.
you're kinda hot playing nazi and i dont know how to feel about that
Convinced everyone that ever disliked Steve Shives is an alt right nazi now - could someone please euthanize me for peace love and happines?
As much as I enjoy your videos, I'd really love to see real arguments against the alt-right, aside from the moralistic, diametrically opposed opinion framework that the left constitutes.  Because in reality, both the extreme left and extreme right are very ensconced in the idea of division, which goes without saying because ' centrism ' is often rebutted as a 'neoliberal' agenda, when it could actually be remodeled to close the gap.
fyrrcref njnxr rgreany qnlyvtug fuvarf  hmm
Oh dear, male-dressed Contrapoints is extremely handsome.
Yay I'm here so early! Hi Contra! As a former libertarian (2012-2014ish), this definitely shows the way passive libertarians (who were often passive liberals before that) can become alt-right, and sometimes get into blatant white nationalism.
Contra, your comedic timing is perfect,  and Fritz is probably one of your most facinating personas so far. I also like that you choose to show the blurred lines between emotion and rationality in the sketch rather than just place them at odds with each other like most other writers do here on YouTube. That's actually good writing as well as genuine philosophical nuance.
I love all your characters
This is genius
These videos really do keep getting better and better. Plus german bilingual bonuses!
This video is trippy as fuck and I love it.
The Alt-Right isn't  nowhere as polite as Fritz, though Jackie Jackson nail down some of the rethoric pretty well
Amazing video :D
Roaming Millenial in a nutshell. Morons with makeup , a mic and no  historical or philosophical  knowledge ranting  bullshit because Baldyneux told them its "an argument"
incredible, as always.
This is a funny video.
Why is contra so cute ?
Those live viewers responses, Jesùs Christo that's amazing and terrifying at the same time.
Aw damn, brought The Marketplace of Ideas into it. Easiest way to bring me out of the woodwork! fyrrcref njnxr rgreany qnlyvtug fuvarf
I want to cum in Contra's hair, but in a distinguished way.
Nice to see Cockbane making a comeback
Brilliant!
Nice video mom
Thank you for a reference to Ionesco play rhinocéros. More people should see or at least read the play. It's one of my favourite play from ionesco.
I find this video frankly astonishing.
And here, we, go...
how about we hang them instead.
0-100 real quick woah roaming millennial watch outttt
If this was truly the Rubin Report, the carpet, (I mean interviewer) shouldn't offer any challenge to his audience at all. I guess he doesn't raise enough...Contra Points+++???  Btw All Nazis should dance to Bar Mitzvah tones.
Holy shit her videos just keep getting better and better
A vision from the oracle!
Wow the budget is going way up on these! This hits just what I feel like when I watch debates.
This is also so hilarious and well put together, I love it
"Stop forcing your made up gender on me you fascist snowflake."
Saul good, man.
your german is really good
10/10 production value.
Hahaha jesus dude you're too charismatic
The production values, wow.
Just descovered your channel three days ago, but  Yay New CONTRAPOINTS!!!
LOL, those live viewer responses...
Beatrix Bumbridge in the streets Abigail Cockbane in the sheets
"Hate the feminazis, tolerate actual nazis" 1:00 - 1:11
tag yourself, i'm corndoghero
that intro tho
Ohmygod Yas.
