Roman's and other conquerors took any part of a conquered culture that they thought useful or helpful.
The concept of culture approbations is invalid  and counter to the whole melting pot,  freedom of choice for Americans  So if someone  is offended by you having dreadlocks or wear green on St Patricks day I am not offened We already have the religious fanatics and white supreamacist tell us not to wear make up and heels so enough with the culture nonsense.
0:22 is a huge ego boost though.
I am extremely far left but... if anything I think we should embrace cultural appropriation. Of coarse we need to be sensitive about it but if some white guy from the bronx likes his friend’s dreadlocks then let him have them. If an American is really into Japan and want to make their own shounen inspired comic with lots of Japanese writing and culture in it, then let him. But if a guy makes a rainforest tribe the bad guys in his adventure movie just because he likes the look of it... then he should at least understand what he is implying
White peope aren't allowed to have dreads hah ok...
How are we spose to be multicultural if we can't share. When music gets so popular it no longer belongs to the group that invented it, but belongs to the world. imo.
I'm pretty sure we all had dreadlocks when we lived in caves.
It is dumb because we are all human and racism ignores our common humanity, but so does the "other" thinking that the idea of misappropriation is based on.  As a small child, born in Uruguay and spending most of my time with brown skinned women who hugged and groomed me a lot and gave me lots of love and affection, I happen to feel very close to these kinds of people and to be a very physically affectionate in general toward all people.  This is very confusing to all genders and kinds of people here where I live in the middle of Kansas.  Referring to myself as "Latina" is very offensive to one of my Puerto Rican friends.  Que lastima!
I really hope not to be very wrong but I live under the impression some Celtic and Pict groups had dreadlocks; the Britons and Francs didnt, but many Vikings had them too, so after Vikings came and went and came and went and Francs and stuff and miscigenation became a thing, many people (yeah I forgot the term for this period cohort) had them too, for a while (I guess at least up to the Inquisition starts in earnest).
Oh cool, there are leftists who are RIGHT about cultural appropriation! That makes me feel significantly better about joining the revolution.
Well this was a lot more palatable than the time when you called all trump supporters fascists
I have dreadlocks because I don't like to comb my hair every time I go to a metal concert and bang my head out. I like the aesthetic and I will wear my hair however I want. If people have a problem with that, they can deal with it. And yes, companies that discriminate against people with dreads should be shamed.
FUCKING AGREED
cultural appropriation doesn't exist
We have lost our manners and have become a bunch of warring tribes and 'cultural appropriation' is just another weapon in the wars.Taking offence too easily is just bad manners...as is dishing out abuse for no reason other than cultural difference.
a guy dressed as a girl, pathetic
as a Mexican, the only thing I hated about that is how horrible your pronounced the "d" in Adios, have-way "d" but still with some "r"  my thoughts exactly, another example is french designer Isabel Marant appropriating the design of Tlahuitoltepec (a small town in Oaxaca Mexico, of indigenous people) blouse & tried to register it in France as her IP, and made a collection. The issues is not in using it, is in profiting out of it.
3:11 mmm those bewbzzzz thats inappropriate Contra
Another video of appropriation, from which I understood nothing
You are hilarious and talented. I just found your channel. If you want to see how silly and wrong you are read Thomas Sowell. You should write books. Plus dreadlocks were just lazy people not washing their hair.
Great stuff.
I appropriate whatever I want to. I am an unapologetic thief of culture. Now excuse me while I eat this gyrrito.
If I am a white person and wanted to make a video of me dancing to Mexican Cumbia dance ... would I be accused of cultural appropriation?
Dreadlocks are a hairstyle! jesus fuck guys
white celtic soldiers had dreads. tons of societies have cultural ties to dreads. cultural appropriation is real but people getting pissed over dreads need to worry about more important things.
4:18 maybe because it was 2 words, but the Jamaican accent was actually proper, not good but proper
You're really fucking cool and inspiring.
Nope it's still fucked up when black people make fun of Rastafarian and Caribbean cultures. But hey i'm a black Pagan who follows primarily the Celtic pantheon, and identified as Wicca for a few (10) years so stones and glass houses I guess.
I completely agree, and I want you to cuck me 🥰
1:55 I'm from Chattanooga what's up
Everyone who speaks English is engaging in cultural appropriation.
This is so bizarre to watch after Midsommar
That last line read had me cackling. Thank u
I think the concept of cultural appropiation stems from trying to solve a problem like racism by focusing on the unimportant aspects of it.  I'm mexican, and I love to see people that appreciate the beauty of Día de Muertos or the delicious food, even if they change it a bit to adjust to their culture. I don't think it is cultural appropiation to use our traditional dresses or celebrate 5 de Mayo, but I have an issue if this people are also the ones that support migrants being detained ar the border and mistreat foreigners.
TURTLE ISLAND WILL RISE AGAIN
Nobody "owns" culture. As long as you don't outright lie about other cultures, anyone is free to create and develop whatever culture they might find befitting.
Ok, so is time to adress the Completo problem: You Fkng gringos starting puting avocados in hot dogs and think you are genius but you are actually apropiation Completos.
"this is a racial slur against Native Americans, a group I'm not a part of, so Imma say the word aloud and then say it's a slur so ppl know I'm still woke" lol you're not cancelled tho ik this is an old video
Boring
I love that you included the Beatles in this. I got so excited that I had to take a second and spin around on my floor. I'm not joking.
¡Ay, Dios mío, chulita!  Que cosas lindas sus tetes y te gusta sus palabras lo más qué puede pero quiero más bofetada de perra con "the golden one" 😎
The led zeppelin example is not "cultural" appropriation, is just unethical behaviour and appropriation.
A little (significantly big) part of me wishing I was on the contra train in 2016 so I could at least message Nat on FB or Twitter and hopefully get a response  But an equally little (significantly big) part of me is glad I became a part of the Contra train at all let alone at the (for now at least) height of her powers
Wow, I am quite impressed...your video was very balanced & sane. Would love to see you influence said types out of extremism.
Led Zepplin is trash.
I have Irish & Norwegian roots & neither the fighting irish nor the the viking team, bothers me.
Whites aren't the only ones doing this shit.
Just let people do what they wanna do. The more we separate cultures the more separate we will be
I have a serious problem with your statement that Zeppelin profited off black music without crediting the original performers. The liner notes of every Led Zeppelin album make it clear which tracks were not original songs and full credit is given to performers like Willie Dixon who wrote the songs they covered.
I think that complaining about cultural appropriation is just an easy way for the white left to make themselves feel good. A way to absolve their consciences for not tackling the real issues of discrimination and exploitation. Leaving aside the few instances where the intent is mockery, by and large people who copy elements from other cultures do it out of admiration. I don’t see how that can be condemned if not by prigs. In my experience most members of minorities don’t give a s* about cultural appropriation and those who do it’s because they perceive it as mockery ON TOP OF DISCRIMINATION, EXPLOITATION AND RACISM. Without those underlying real problems nobody would care about it. Complaining about hairs and costumes is idiotic on so many levels because not only nobody is harmed by cultural appropriation but the complainers trivialize racism and drown the voices of those who fight against real discrimination. Cultural appropriation: a manufactured problem to distract attention from real life problems. Congrats SJWs for helping the right to maintain the status quo.
I remember one time arguing with this old white guy who said he wasn’t offended by the sports name and as an “Algonquin-Iroquois” that he would know best.  He didn’t seem to notice or even care that Algonquin Iroquois is a contradiction and Impossible considering the Iroquois were a confederacy and a language, not a tribe.. and that the two were traditional enemies.  But instead I just shut up. There’s no point trying to convince a white American how dumb and full of shit they are when they can’t even get elementary facts right.  It reminds me of that old joke about why you shouldn’t play chess with a pidgeon.
Yoga is mostly from danish primitive gymnastics, swedish calisthenics, and hindi wrestling brought together by british officers in India stewing together for a century. The name yoga was pitched during a marketing meeting decades ago by Indian yoga experts to make it exotic by taking an existing name with cultural cache both in the west and the east. I mean think about it from the Indian gurus pov. How are they going to get money and fame by selling americans Scandinavian exercises? However make it "spiritual" and make up a bunch of cool sounding names and you have made it "other" and sexy. So, other that here in omaha a church banned yoga and kicked a little girl out of sunday school for witchery. Mission accomplished. The gurus also did the same thing religious leaders of most faiths have done and rape people so much that it is mind boggling.
2:03 Uhh, ackshually, Vikings used the Younger Futhark alphabet.
Watching these videos: woah he’s so handsome  Watching the new videos: woah she’s so pretty
Her name was always Natalie...
I mean it's peoples right to not hire you if you don't have a low cut hair cut.
Tower records is going to send an intellectual property strike
No I don't think people are being racist dressed up as Mexicans. The redskins aren't mocking natives it's a tough sport and it's giving praise to natives toughness.
me mata cuando dice "choto" jajajajja
The Sauk tribe (from which chief Black Hawk was) has given the Blackhawks permission to continue using the name because it's meant to honor a man who was really good at killing whitie (though the millions in donations and education programs doesn't hurt).
I think it’s funny that we don’t talk about some of the biggest cultural appropriation exploiters is the Christian History and religion.
Fucking hilarious!! Thanks
Japan’s culture is based on appropriation from China. Borrowing is the order of the day since humans have been around. That said I think it was right for the Rolling Stones to insist for Muddy Waters to be on tv with them.
Now u left wing feminazi cucks are calling Led Zeppelin  "problematic" ? Oh, fuck you!!!!
(yes I know this is a 3 year old video lol) but i can agree with most of your points, I just thought white people with dreadlocks were bad because straight hair doesn't work well with the hairstyle so it ends up difficult to clean and gross. Let me know if thats incorrect tho!
You are putting some Georgian music at 5:07 I think -- did you notice that yourself?
I was really interested in Japan for a period of time. I was watching a bunch of Japanese movies, started learning Japanese and I sewed a kimono for myself based on a traditional kimono sewing-pattern. I realised later on that I can't wear it, in let's say costume parties, because I would be accused of cultural appropriation. Regardless of that my culture (Hungarian) has never been to an oppressor to Japan and that I was motivated purely by cultural interest & awe. While I understand why cultures posing in costumes of the ones they had been historically dominating can easily be viewed as careless mockery, it does _not_ mean that every time someone puts on a costume of another culture is a sign of disrespect.
Not sure if this has been pointed out to you or not, but you flash an image of Panda Express when mentioning that white people can mess shit up in appropriating or appreciating culture. However, Panda Express was founded by Chinese Born American Citizen Andrew Cherng, who still is the Chairman of the company. https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Andrew_Cherng
Hey there ! Just like to give my view on things as a wHiTe PriViledgeD MalE.. as if it matters what I am. Anyways I can confidently (and drunkenly) state that I feel the caricatures of other races being the mascots of sports teams are an endearment and not always an intended slur. I personally feel that sports teams will choose mascots worthy of respect from fans even if they don’t insight the utmost fear into the hearts of those who only watch the Super Bowl to see the commercials and Katy Perry.
Why is it racist to dress up as people from different cultures? They're not mocking anyone. Even if they were it shouldn't immediately be racist to mock people for anything because individuals get mocked for virtually everything all the time without people finding it racist. None of the things you said were racist were, don't dilute the meaning of a serious word.
Honestly, on white dreadlocks, it's not even appropriation that's the worst of it, it's that they're disgusting and unhygienic. I mean, appropriation is definitely part of it, not arguing that, but people with straight thin hair just straight up should not have dreads.
Your common sense makes me horny
9:09 ‘What I’m really trying to say is, I like watching black men bang my wife.’ 2019: [is everyone’s waifu]
ma’am I was not ready for you to come for Led Zeppelin like that I was SHOOK
❄️ this world is f////d and soon the only people on YouTube will be chemically imbalanced boys like this
I traveled to Arizona recently, where I purchased a small turquoise bison and a Kokopelli pendant from Native American artists. I bought the pieces because I think they're beautiful, not because I feel a "spiritual connection" to Native American traditions. Is it inappropriate for me to wear such jewelry in public? If so, then won't Indigenous artists ultimately be restricted to selling their art exclusively to other Indigenous people?
And of course you had dreads
"Spirituality and religion are bullshit". I thought u were OK but I guess you are the bad kind of degenerate :(
What?😂 I would love to see an American wear a viking helmet! That would be so cool!🇺🇸😇🇩🇰
White dreads are totally fine. Its a hairstyle. I will agree on the redskins. Is bob ross a cultural appropriator for having an afro
I am actually in love with you
I'm laughing like a maniac watching these videos at 5 in the morning and I can't stop! Great arguments, great jokes, great channel.
Wait mockery explain
You know, a lot of people who are really into the gothic subculture, are rubbed the wrong way when someone "appropriates" it(hot topic, edgy 14-year-olds etc). Since the subculture is then shaped by the new majority that takes part in it, and the people who pioneered it and are passionate about it don't get much credit, and on top of that now risk being associated with the silly watered down 2.0 fashion victim version because capitalists decided to make bank on it. It goes a bit deeper than the hipster mentality of just wanting to hog a nice thing for yourself, it's more than just clothing for a lot of old goths.   I have this feeling that it's a bit more sucky when there's also your identity as a minority attached to the stuff that's being capitalized and popularized by people who really have nothing to do with it. Just a hunch though.  There is probably an appropriate amount of outrage for appropriation though, and idk what that is, but I'm fairly sure twitter ain't it.
Problemas del primer mundo, enverdad sólo por webadas JAJAJAJA
...to all of you who think it is OK to say "gracias" but pronounce it "grassy ass" because you think it's funny - you sound stupid & racist.
*SENORITAS* *PICANTES*
Good video, but small note: vikings did not used the elder futhark, they used the younger futhark.
Hey there. This is an older video which I'd love you to remake/ :)
Black people with dreads get discriminated against way more than white people with dreads. Until that changes, it is morally wrong for a white person to don dreads.
Ha! This was weird. As an indigenous woman I have all kindsa feels both ways. I suppose making people think critically is a good place to start. That being said, proceed.
I can't imagine stopping some stranger on the sreet and getting upset about them taking whatever I think 'my culture' is. I've only stopped one guy at a store for wearing natsi shit on his jacket. He told me it was a band and I advised him to maybe take it off. No harm no foul. I don't think I would for any other reason (other than a racist one). Thx Natalie!
Very good, agreed with much of it, and thank you. Some constructive intended criticism now. It wont be entirely accurate as i don't have time to review vid - I have one main issue of discontent here, and that is based on my romantic relationship, and multiple deep friendships with indigenous people here, mainly Lakota, Dakota, Nakota, and diné tribes. The indigenous community I am tied to is suffering from an epidemic of missing and murdered indigenous women (#MMIW). The headdresses are a ceremonial item, only used in sacred context, and only by men traditionally. The cultures here are dealing with erasure, but are NOT wiped out, they are still here. They demand to be respected. When a young sorority girl dresses up in a sexy squaw outfit, she is doing a lot of things, but one is sexualizing a demographic that has a target on their back. Look up Duluth MN, in regards to human trafficking of indigenous girls and women. See the movie “Wind River”.   The other things being done, are perpetuating the erasure (which you did somewhat here) and taking sacred items and disrespecting them by sexualizing and cheapening them in mockery, with the festy headdresses girls are wearing.   Its cruel and tasteless. In a 400 year legacy of disrespect. It needs to stop.   The rest, ok, I agree.   Thanks for your vids. You're brilliant. Keep it up.
Some pseudo-woke sjw tried to shout me down as a culture vulture. I am 1/8 black and the white sjw (irony!) screeched that my mandala tattoos are racist because I am not Indian. I laughed so hard, I could barely explain that those two big tatts were NOT  mandalas, but actually depict bastion forts in Huningen, Germany and one of Neuf-Brisach.
Blatant gender appropriation is ok though.
Pathetic.
I LOVE YOU, CÁSATE CONMIGO!
I appropriate other cultures every chance i get. Xenophobes and segregationists be hating
you are one of the few "reasonable".. though I disagree with almost every video you put out.. what you put forth in this video as "cultural appropriation" isn't appropriation at all.. Giving Credit to someone that deserves it isn't appropriating a culture.. it is a dick move that if someone took ANYONE'S music / art and used it without credit would be wrong... no ifs ands or buts about it... SJWs are 100% wrong about this on every level.. Don't get me wrong. there are people on the "right" that make me cringe and don't support them... but there are FAR more people on the left that make me cringe.. It just seams both sides ignore evidence and just want to believe their their shit don't stink.
This is the best take on the issue I’ve seen on YouTube (or anywhere).
Is it wrong for my partner who is English to dress up occasionally as a French Maid ??? 🤪
gotta have so ething to whine about huh? Get a job loser.
You are a tranny talking about cultural appropriation? Aren't you appropriating real women's culture?
Lol a group can't own anything.
I'm a bit disappointed to hear you wholesale trash spirituality. It's ok if your not spiritual but spiritual practices are just another set of ways to understand the world and I don't think it's nonsense to be curious. My family of scientists think Philosophy is all nonsense except Buddhist philosophy. my grandparents also pretend to be atheist but act on their weird strict protestant upbringing. different methods for different people.
Appropriation judging is a matter of perspective.Looking at all the halloweens of my childhood it was embracing all the people i was for day.Learning race in about 4th grade,at dinner i asked my dad what am I,He said you are a heinz 57.Every kind if person made you.
i'm really glad how natalie came out and i'm glad that she is one with herself.  but i must say, this betacuck is so cute, a refreshing male rolemodel and damn i have a crush on this part of his apperiance.
Really resonate with your view. I think it’s most problematic if someone is profiting off ideas taken from a culture. For instance a fashion brand that takes prints, motifs or idea from a culture and sells that clothing without sharing that profit. for instance collaborating with a designer/artist from the culture. I don’t really see white people wearing dreads as something worth the label of appropriation. I can understand why it may offend people but I don’t think it’s inherently wrong. It’s a blurry line and I think taking it to far can be harmful
Stevie Ray Vaughan - we are not worthy!!!
Is it okay if I also desire the guy you?
The people who wear dreadlocks in my 97%> white city are typically squatters, drifters and drug addicts. I think they have more in their lives to deal with than worrying about if their hair might offend someone. These are not privileged people and they aren’t receiving praise for their hair.  Also, speaking another language is not cultural appropriation.  Ps talk about “black fishing” - that’s some genuinely harmful cultural appropriation right there.
For me, as long as you don't take credit for the idea or look, and know where the idea comes from, its cool. Don't take another culture's idea or practice and sell it as your idea.
This was the time when everybody got offended by anything!! I feel things are different now (2019) or maybe I'm just caring less and less idk.
I'd like to appropriate your gender... But first I have to work out what flavour it is first.
Any time I want a problematic thumbnail, I come back to this video.
What a fucking homo.
the cultural appropriation dialogue is so fucked.  it’s a useful analysis of a symptom of racism, from the very tangible capita exploitation of cultural practices, to the collective unconscious fetishization of ethnic/racial identities.  but it’s gone down it’s own rabbit hole to the point where people can get income based solely on these dialogues. and practical discussions about issues of racism get sidetracked by an intense focus on representational politics.
Let’s talk about Black Phishing next.
Well see that’s the problem, if people took the god damn time to learn about something no one would be offended, unfortunately that’s not how the majority thinks. Like dressing as a ‘Mexican’ or ‘china man’ for Halloween isn’t honoring *anyone* BUT if someone had a friend etc who invited them to some even ala Lunar New Year or DotD then you would be respecting it.
The problem is when you mix up cultural appropriation/appreciation and cultural misappropriation
What about the types of cultural appropriation that aren't racial? I mean, some deaf and queer people say doing certain things is cultural appropriation...
Not sure if I love the idea of a white person defining cultural appropriation
But not all those Halloween costumes are MEANT to be a mockery, the white people wearing them often earnestly think this is a "celebration of culture" or of a specific historical figure, so does that make it not racist? Because if the answer is no, it kinda points to it being cultural appropriation, not just explicit racism
I was actually there when the yoga gate thing happened and I can honestly say that the reason why that teacher lost her job was that it was a Disability centre. Someone else took over she was let go because no one was using the classes and people with physical disabilities and/or mobility aids couldn't even access the space. there was a lot more going on behind the scenes. And, yes, the concern of Cultural appropriation came up but I think it's pretty effed up the concern of cultural appropriation even took over the importance of making safer spaces for disabled folks in the first place. As a disabled person who was there when this happened, I can honestly say that it really sucks coming across these videos even 3 years after the fact, it really just shows the power of a buzzword to me and it hurts.
Really early in the transition. Natalie, are you there yet?
Thumbs up for using "redounds" 8:35
I think you should go find the Predator and tell him his dredds are appropriation.....see how well that discussion goes.
Please look up the other African ethnic groups who wore dreads. I would list them, but I'd rather it have more meaning for you by you researching.
I still come back for 0:21
So you said you had dreads because you felt spiritual, and that dreads originate from hindu mystics. But Hindu mystics are the clear inspiration behind this “hippie” style. people (like yourself) are brushing it off as a style when THERE IS a culture being plagiarized and not being credited. therefore it is cultural appropriation wouldn’t you say?  And I believe you misunderstood the point of white people being celebrated for wearing dreads, black hairstyles have been labeled as ghetto and have had an overall negative connotation on a socioeconomic level, but in the case of white people, it is labeled as a style or a trend.
I think people need to chill the fuck out and speak calmly to one another. If something I'm doing is offensive and you tell me "hey, that's not ok and here's why" in a calm way, I'll apologise and stop doing it. If you're an ass about it, I'll keep doing it cuz fuck you. I may even go out of my way to piss you off cuz clearly you don't give a damn about being nice to me, so I'm gonna go ahead and be rude to you too. May not be the best way to handle things, but at least I'm honest about it. Truth is a lot of people are like that. I feel like understanding that is important. I even got my stepmom to look into and eventually believe climate change was happening after years of her not believing it just cuz I was gentle with it.
As the saying goes, imitation is the sincerest form of flattery...
Interesting! Indeed it is a hard topic.  I got recently in trouble myself because of that for artsy purposes. I wore none of the depicted costumes but danced painted with feathers and have been screwed for "being insulting and harmful for native Indians" by a bunch of white prats like me.  I wasn't even trying to say who's right or wrong, just to make them understand I was very sorry if my artwork could be read that way but I wouldn't change it. Also, I am quite pale but square-jawed, slightly slanting browned eyed with very long dark hair and as I am transgender and not yet on hormone, What means that I don't have a beard. in brief, I can look like a native American for white people who never saw one I guess because I have been said that every now and then. Even asked if I was one. I guess I can't help it if I look native to a couple of people. I didn't decide to have brown eyes the same way I didn't sign to be a dude with a pussy. I didn't decide to love feathers and war paint either. They say the "shamanistic" music was the problem though it was by a Danish band and a British producer. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rTjhprB6Jvg&t=138s    I also think whatever you do you are harming someone and I am so tired of hearing people pretending to detain "THE truth" that my favorite part of your video was at the end when you said you might say something wrong.    Love your style too! go on!
I didn't know about Led Zeppelin, dreadlocks and Hinduism!  Imagine that!  I like to watch black men bang white wives, too.  I like whites and blacks with dreads.  I made out with a white woman with dreads once.  She was a plus-sized model!
Everyone is talking about her transition but one of the most incredible things I noticed over the last few years is the increase in quality in the video itself. From the argumentation to the visual choices, the confidence, the videos themselves have gotten exponentially better. Not that this was bad just that she's really taken it to another level since she began.
It's about intent. If people ate intending to be racist and mock then that's bad cultural appropriation.  But if they aren't intending to be racist and someone 'feels' that is it. It's not racist. Intention matters and that's been undermined I find nower days.
Denim pants were used by workers given its durability and low price. When teenagers became a thing with holden caulfield and post war, jack kerouac etc etc. teenagers started differentiating from adults and having very little money at their age they would adopt the working class look. That's a purely north american thing and still it has some similar aspects to white people wearing dreads except you change ethnicity (there are no real race difference between humans as there are with other animals) for class. I don't see any trouble in that. Now, when denim clothes became a style thing instead of a practical thing brands started to exploit this and charge a ridiculous amount of money for a thing is supposed to be cheap just because is fashionable. This is the exact same thing as a brand charging you a ridiculous amount of money for a design in a shirt that was originaly taken from peruvian art. The problem is not the "cultural appropiation" but capitalism. There is no appropiation if you don't get profit while taking something from someone and leaving them without it.
There is something I have to say! As a someone who worked as a hairdresser I have nothing against white people wearing dreads.... in theory. BUT it’s not the same as people with curly black hair doing it. See when you’re white more than likely your hair is thin and straight, so in order to make locks with natural hair like that what you’re actually doing is breaking and damaging your hair, and now the only way out is to cut it off. Whereas black people lock their hair in place, is takes that shape naturally and can be reversed. Think as dreadlocks as a form of braiding whereas white people with locks are intentionally matting their own keratin strands.  That’s all I have to say, thanks.
I just hate dreadlocks because of how unclean they are. I definitely would think twice about eating at a restaurant where any of the staff had dreads
Turns out Ötzi had dreadlocks in the stoneage - so all you black americans etc. are "appropriating" "my" culture.
I love this channel but I remember her talking about how we should go watch (it was probably another video) and subscribe to colored youtubers specifically for the subject of race, and I suggest you guys go check out I Am Eloho.  Would even love to see a collab between you guys! Probably would never happen but just thought I’d attempt to push that idea out into the world.
I'm sorry, but when you suggested that Eminem should only sing Vagner...and then showed a black woman singing Vagner...I almost died.
I thought that dreds were a cultural adaptation to a dry/arid environment where there wouldn't be water for hair-washing
your Spanish pronunciation is so bad it's hilarious
Mocking a culture is racist. <- That is literally not racist. Unless by some ass-pull of logic, race == culture. I think I like your channel though.
As a second generation Armenian American, this is what I've noticed as I grew up. Back in the 80s and 90s, nobody knew what I was. Except other Armenians. Nobody knew about our food, our holidays, famous Armenians who've contributed greatly to society, or that we had a genocide. Now, everyone knows what hummus is, what grape leaves are, unfortunately the only famous Armenian they know is Kim Kardashian, some may or may not have learned anything about our genocide. There are Hispanic people and Black people who know a lot about our culture before it was "cool." But it gets destroyed in a way I can't describe when white Americans try to talk about it. It's cringey because it almost comes off forced or fake. They make spectacles of holidays, change recipes where it doesn't even taste the same anymore, and act like it's something "new" then sell it to the masses. It's very bothersome and it feels like it's only "real" when white people "discover" you.
This is the first video of contrapoints i’ve seen where i don’t entirely agree with everything
I swear I'm not trying to be daft or troll, I just want a thorough intelligent answer to a simple question. Why is black face the sin of sins and drag a booming industry? I asked this in my Women in Music History class and the consensus was that black face was meant to disparage people from socializing with black people but surely that isn't the act 100% of the time. The lady from the NAACP who got in trouble  because she was white. If a human with a penis who doesn't want to be a man can do their thing, why can't a person with x-colored skin be a y-colored skin person instead? I don't have an agenda nor a side to persuade anyone to, I just don't understand what is unique about gender that we can accept people questioning it while race is still shit your pants if you make a mistake.
I’m white and appropriating viking culture, mostly by eating a lot of fish, drinking heavily, and stealing from churches. I also like boats.
What teachings of Haile Selassie? You didn't do any research at all, did you?  You just summarized whatever was appearing in your social media feeds, didn't you?
Truly, you are buzzfeed made flesh.
I love you as a man.  I love you as a woman.  Your videos are so entertaining and brilliant!  I laugh out loud every single time and I'm not really the lol type.  You give my brain an erection.  I feel the swelling.  Thank you for what you do!
I like your perspectives, but I wish you would have explained why cultural appropriation is “always bad”.  I don’t necessarily think this is true, but I’m sure there are good arguments for why it could be true.  I would like to hear them though, because most arguments I’ve already heard about why cultural appropriation is always wrong have come from college kids or their intellectual equivalents.  Thus, hearing an argument from someone like you would be refreshing.
White people don't understand that when People of Color are trying to engage in their own culture it isn't as simple as "self expression", they're also dealing with the double consciousness, fighting internalized oppression, struggling with self hatred and undoing years assimilation. The frustration with cultural appropriation, is not whether or not white people are "allowed" to engage in another culture, it's the insensitivity and apathy that even when it comes to our OWN self exploration and recovery, we still come in second.
I'm trying to post that picture of me with locks from 2009 and it isn't working, this thing is broke. DRAG AND DROP &%*&%$%*!
HOMBRES CON BURROS
i’m mixed race and adopted by a white skinned family. am i culturally or racially pure? absolutely not. i’m afraid that miscegenation and cultural borrowing is so fundamental to what i am that the fuss about cultural appropriation doesn’t make a lot of sense to me.
Santa Sangre!
As a reluctant bald-guy, I would just like to apologise to any Buddhists I might have offended!
You misunderstand what the argument about cultural appropriation is about. We're not mad about sharing  and borrow aspects of our culture and the culture of others. We're mad that aspects of our culture are framed as degenerate and immoral and we're condemned and shamed for it, but then we turn around to find the same people who have framed our culture as deviant are now imitating it. Not only that, they're claiming that it's theirs, acting as though they thought of it first. Taking credit for it. It's the co-opting of our culture. Cultural appropriation.
Lmao, I nearly choked on my food from laughing at Lil Wayne's response to being asked about BLM😂
I think Lindsey Ellis’s video about Pocahontas is a really good exploration of some other ideas about cultural appropriation- most notably the fact that the term itself is a neutral that takes on a negative and/or positive meaning depending on context. Also as for the workplace discrimination based on white dreads, I will note that part of the issue with white dreads that I’ve heard discussed but not seen in the comments is that for black people dreadlocks are a natural hairstyle that keeps their hair healthy, whereas for white people dreadlocks are formed by matting hair together and not washing it, damaging the hair and making it filthy, even to the point of occasionally growing mold inside the locks themselves. If my understanding of the situation is accurate, many white employers deny black people the right to have their hair in a natural style due to concerns of professionalism and “hygiene.” Obviously employment discrimination based on hairstyle is a cop out used by racists to justify racism, but I can understand why white people turning a perfectly normal black hairstyle into a nasty mat of hair in the perception of many white people might ruffle some feathers. To be fair, I have no idea if it’s actually possible for white people to have clean dreads and the mold hair people are giving even other white people with dreads a bad name. However, I think that considering why white people with dreads aren’t getting hired versus why black people with dreads aren’t getting hired might go a little deeper than the dreads themselves. Obviously this is a super old video but whatever
Non sequitur in regards to your arguments: you're hot as fuck in this video. I have a massive crush on you and your brain. Also your body.
so whether or not something can be racist is a function of how much power the race has? If that's not what you mean, then what you mean is not clearly stated. in response to 1:40
Okay but as someone with viking heritage: they were forced to give up their religion for christianity or they would've been killed. Also, Vikings also had dreads so like ???
I appreciate the fact that you put a solid 25 seconds of Nymphomaniac in here, but there are so many better 25 seconds in that scene alone! Step up your game!
I didnt like the video! Is kind of racist... I think you can do it better, anyway is a very old one and Id rather watch a video with this subject coming from a Person who's culture is always exotized and appropriated to profit from it. Lets face it yt ppl, you only wear dreadlocks because you want to be the "rebel" in your society and want to break the heteronormativity in beauty, that's your fight with dreads. Dreads are not about being "rebel" is a way of life. I sometimes ask me the question... IF this yt person wearing dreads is aware of all of this, this person wouldn't wear dreads... so NO.
Cultural appropriation is okay as long as you don't mock.
I'm with you. Helloween costumes must definitely be taken seriously and not as a joke.
I shaved my dreads a couple of week ago. Had them 10 years ish. They were a metal thing for me. At first. I kind of drifted away from that scene. By the time I shaved them, I just had to admit, I didn't have any real attachment to them, so keeping them was extra fucked up, because I knew that they had meaning for people with whom I should have been showing solidarity, and I wasn't even doing it for a good personal reason other than, "I've had them a long time and they're kind of cool and really long."   I'm glad they're gone. 5 stars, would recommend. Shave your dreads white people, you'll feel better :)
White people shouldn't wear dreadlocks...because it looks terrible on them.
Back for some retrospection, I feel like the reason the "sports teams that stereotype white people" isn't really comparable, is because it's white people doing it to themselves. So in that context it's fine. Like when black people call themselves the n word, or I call myself a fur fag. Lmao.  But also let's not forget that white people often enslaved other white people. The Irish aren't well loved.
So I am a white woman, so yeah in the end I don't know shit about how it cultural appropriation feels. But here is what I have gathered talking with some comrades. The problem is not only that white people take only what they like in other cultures. It's that those cultures as a whole are often denigrated by society, for the things that white people get a pass for. Because white people appropriating other cultures goes way back then, and it has always been seen as an adorkable bourgeois hobby. ( most of the examples I know are from French aristocracy and bourgeoisie before and after the revolution). So yeah I think it can't be an innocuous cultural exchange until those  oppressions are not abolished
This is the first video of yours I've watched with you looking more manly and holy crap you have come a long way!  Kuso to you for being your truest self.
u r the best
You are amazing
I think you are awesome!
I’m not gonna like, yell at a white person with dreadlocks but I think it’s stupid because it’s a protective hairstyle and when it’s done on white hair it just kind of..... looks gross, it looks just matted up. It seems pointless to me, idk. Like it makes sense as a protective hairstyle but white hair doesn’t need to be treated in the same way.
She sounds like Chris Fleming in this video!
Jesus the level of stupidity is off the scale.
"Do you want to live in a world where Eminem sings Wagner?" No.  Fuck Wagner and his proto-Nazi bullshit.
I hate them næzis cultural appropriating muh culture
HOMBRRRRES CON BURRRRRRROS I'm fucking dying XD
Ah, yes. The proud people of the Wannabee tribe.
Honestly, I think the drawing line is respect. Be willing to respect the cultural origins of whatever you're expressing. If you're genuinely uneducated, be willing to be educated and respect what you learn. Oddly enough, I'm half hispanic, yet wasn't offended by the choice of costume. XD
While Led Zepplin is a great example and illustrates the point exactly, Elvis did the same thing earlier, though, was not as bold about claiming ownership.
Aaaaaand then the libtards change latino to latinx in order to serve their own fashionable, trendy inclusiveness. Talk about appropriation.
Before I actually read the title I thought it was one of those tinydesk concerts by some Traditional Mexican band. The cuantos años tienes part was hilarious.
Omg. What fresh pile of irrelevant  garbage have i stumbled upon now ?
The left should be called "people who want to demonise things that make them feel uncomfortable a bit" but that might be a little too long
I've thought about this a lot, as a native person who is white passing. On one hand, I do see why people get upset when things are appropriated. On the other hand, how are cultures supposed to evolve if we don't share ideas? The world is not black and white.
Stinky white hippies appropriated dreads, which linked dreads with stinky hippiness in the hive mind. Now when mainstream people (including managers, HR, etc.) see professional black people with well-kempt, traditional hairstyles, they tend to say those hairstyles aren't professional or clean. That's the fallout of appropriation, that type of thing is one big reason it's materially harmful.   The banjo is an African-American instrument based on West African instruments, but it was a huge part of minstrel shows in the US and Europe, was used to mock black Americans so terribly that they were driven away from their own expressive invention. That is appropriation. They didn't share it. They ripped it away.  Here is an article about the banjo. It looks like it addresses what I'm talking about but I can't finish it right now. https://www.collectorsweekly.com/articles/how-the-african-banjo-got-a-racist-reinvention/
I think 'cultural appropriation' can only apply to when it's crude and disrespectful to the culture itself. Hairstyles don't matter. Anyone can be inspired by a culture to make a certain kind of music, but you should also not steal the copyright or credit. Anyone should be able to live however they please as long as it isn't hurting anyone else. Football mascots are demeaning. Halloween costumes are innacurate and demeaning. Dress up as a monster, not a slutty native American. That costume is shit anyways, seriously.  And it applies to everyone. Fighting Irish still isn't okay. If you made a goddamn Brit as your mascot, it still isn't. You can't have double standards. Celebrate culture, don't demean it, no matter who's it is. If your excuse for the Fighting Irish is "whiteys gotta pay", then you are just as bad as everyone else. If someone made a shitty Halloween version of the costumes used in Edinborough's Fire Festival, it's still "cultural appropriation".
That’s not true
Having dreads is just natural
in every one of your videos I end up getting 20000000 more braincells
What I really mean is I like watching Black men bang my wife..... LuL lmaoooooo hahahahahah
Seu deboche é puro ouro
This was much more nuanced than I expected.
I keep rewatching this because you in dreads and a bandana is giving me feelings
La Barca de Oro, really nice song, nice opening
She Was so cute When She Was a Guy.
Your youtube has gotten so much better now.
Didn't know we did so much a F**ck*d up shite.
Please never ever ever ever ever ever link race with culture. People do that and DONT! CULTURE! DOESN'T! TRANSCEND! RACE!
I was working at a place for 2 years and got fired for having dreadlocks. I was employee of the month the 3rd month of working there and soon after was given that title again, before being fired. I had dreads for spiritual purposes too. The only people that complained were “white” people 🤷‍♀️
I'm pretty sure neanderthals had dreadlocks before anybody tried to claim it as their own "original" hairstyle. I don't know if you can even call something that just happens to hair when it's not washed a hairstyle lol. It's poor hygiene is what it is.
I went to tower records as a kid?! The good days
Nobody:  Contrapoints:TRIGGERED
It's a curse to be a smart thinking person in the world of humans...
If the music is good, it rises above culture bound notions of political correctness or cultural appropriation and becomes world music, accessible to all. Where would we be if no white musicians were allowed to cover the giants of blues and jazz like Muddy Waters or Miles Davis? Sorry but Waters' and David's music is larger than them, it transcends all cultural, social, racial, and ethnic boundaries. And when are white people going to complain about Michael Jackson culturally appropriating the look of white face? He turned himself into a little white girl and where were the culture police?
You are amazing.
Hi. Huge Led Zeppelin fan, southern baptist christian, straight, anti-sjw, white male here🙌. You've not converted me but if be damned if i didn't say that your subtle not so outraged sharing of your opinion wasn't refreshing.
Well, christians technically exterminated all the germanic pagans. So it's kind of offensive that they later made comic book heroes out of their gods.  It's just that there's noone left alive to take offense :P
All I know is you mentioned led zeppelin Stevie Ray Vaughan had a howling wolf picture and I've never cum so hard in my life!!!!!!
i kicked a mouse like 20 feet into the air the other day i'm sure it had rabies cause it came at me all crazy but yeah killed a mouse
You can make fun of a culture without being racist or bigoted. Just make sure you are doing it for a joke and not genocide.
Since THAT scene from nymphomaniac doesn't have to do with cultural appropriation i know it was specifically targeting ME, a viewer from 2 years after that video got posted. Months after i left the theatre i still had nightmares including charlotte gainsbourg's gigantic nipples. Talking about it brings shivers down my spine, much more so by thinking a poor soul might stumble across that comment...
I'm from Chattanooga, thank you for mentioning us
This is the only video where I 100% disagree.
Vikings are not ppl anyway.  So no worries about that one.
I'm sorta going through your catalog of videos and this is one of your funniest
Love your content, keep the good work.
This is real content! I mean at least for our civilization. #imnotanalien Love ya <3
You did acknowledge that it is complex and touched on the power imbalance present in cultural exchange, but I wish you went in more there as that is where I become ambivalent. On one hand, I am inclined to think that appropriation of culture is just cultural exchange, and that it is not intrinsically wrong. But when I consider how such exchanges unfold, when I recognise that one party of the exchange has advantage over the exchange and that this compels the less powerful group in the exchange to submit to the preferences of the more powerful group, I realise that one group is set up over against the other, and that it is not an equal or fair exchange. Once subordinated, what is possible for the less powerful group and their culture, is largely determined by the more powerful group. And there is no reason for the more powerful group to listen to anything the less powerful group has to say. That is what makes me the master and you the slave. So, I am ambivalent about cultural appropriation because it really is a complicated issue and I don't know if dreadlocks has anything to do with it. I am not sure if my decision that a cultural exchange is fair and neutral or a reflection of the power I yield in the exchange, like, is it my place to decide if an exchange is fair, because I am inclined to think that the other party ought to have equivalent say in that. The ambiguity of it all lol
Gotta love being mad over a hairstyle
My stance has always been and will always be that cultural appropriation isn't wrong. If I like something from another culture I will adopt it and if you like anything from my culture you're welcome to do the same. Sudan FTW btw
The main issue I've heard in regards to white people with dreads is how, for many of us, it is impossible for dreads to form in a clean/natural way, so it's more of a hygiene/hair texture thing. People with finer, non-textured hair (like myself) have to make their hair absolutely disgusting with grime and product to get dreads (ever hear of dread rot?). So my first reaction to seeing a white person with dreads isn't "how dare they appropriate that hairstyle" and more "oh god, there's probably an ancient, dormant disease or alien parasite living in their hair"
This is something that I've found so hard to make people understand. If you want to cut culture's reach you'd have to isolate because culture spurs and collides within any human interaction.
3:48 I am black have dreadlocks and they mean nothing to me, I just never want to do my hair again
Tu cantas bien 😊
I love yoy
I live in Chattanooga lol. You make such excellent points in this vid.
As a Jew, I don't mind if you wear yamaka or talk like you're hocking a lougie. After all, you're only making an ass of yourself. You're not a real Jew if you can't master that art of passive-aggressiveness... But you can do whatever you want.
God i am wayy to late to this orgasmic thoguht poking content, thank you Vice, and Contrapoints Your perspective is much welcomed!
The funny thing is, that literally everything is culturally appropriated, including us humans. Ideas spread and some are adopted. This is trade and commerce at it's roots. This is how all cultures are built, through adopting new ideas to mix with the old ideas, or sometimes replace them (usually a good thing, but not always).    If cultural appropriation was made illegal, we wouldn't be able to play music. No, I meant music, period. Not just _some_ music. All music has been created by mixing different ideas and melodies, and all genres of music have come from mixing other genres together. So, no cultural appropriation = no music. And that's just one example.      Here is one for instance: I was just watching one of my fave channels, a guitar learning channel: Tim Pierce. Tim has been a session guitarist for many years and has played on a lot of albums and one song he was invited to play on was _Black and White_ by Michael Jackson. Apparently Michael loved Motley Crue at the time and wanted the bridge to have that feel. Hence the _Dr Feel Good-esque bridge part. But now we have cultural appropriation and Michael can't do that, but wait, Motley Crue is a blused based rock band at it's heart, so no more Motely Crue. And damn, it turns out the blues is a melding of African music and Celtic music, so no more blues... or country, no jazz ofc. Need I go on?  Edit: To clarify, my perspective on this is that especially here in America it has been the melding of cultures that has given us all that we have that is best and great in my estimation. Certainly as a musician I have to say that without The blues, country, jazz, bluegrass, swing, rock and roll, metal, rap, techno, etc etc, Without all of that, who are we even as modern humans? Can we not have our own modern culture as well?
Here's some cultural appropriation for you, Kirsten Dunst wearing Japanese youth fashions: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=C0X3CLJVMJU  On suburban British youth playing Blues, well fortunately they gave the Blues back to America and revitalised the careers of the old ignored Bluesmen. SO, fair enough.
Is it cultural appropriation for me to eat a Baguette whilst shouting at the Swiss for stealing Genéve?
"You can't learn Spanish if you're white. Learn a European language instead, like German. Smh white people appropriating latino culture."
If cultural appropriation means taking the best of another culture and making it part of your own, then that's not wrong ... the wrong parts come when there's either physical theft involved, such as the stealing of rare artworks and historical artifacts, or making light of an ethnicity's heritage, such as what some sports teams and their fans do or what some idiots do for Halloween.
Wtf are you.. women or man. Freak
4:57 Chakrulo!
Thank you
I get that you are making a mockery of the righteous left but calling the woman with dreadlocks a White "bitch"...sigh, it's the last word we need to call a woman. Or anyone, for that matter.
0:22 Your pronunciation is pretty good
I unintentionally watched this on St. Patrick's Day.   ....Luck of de Irish to ya, lass!  her tee dar te dar!
You make me whet.
It is "just good old market mechanisms" at work. The mainstream cultural industries (art, fashion, music) is stealing ideas from a) other cultures and or b) subcultures, remove all context & repackage it for easy consumption by mainstream consumers.
So a bunch of white individuals copied some music from non-white people and didn't acknowledge this.  So that means WHITE (all white) people engage in cultural appropriation?  There is a disconnect between how you talk about a specific act of appropriation and how the left/black supremacists talk about it.    So when non-white people have learned and copied calculus, literature, political institutions and technology from white people, is this equivalent to cultural appropriation unless every time the topic is mentioned there is a shout out to white people?
I love led zeppelin but I acknowledge the criticism and that they did bad
This, this, this, this, thisssssssss.  I think we need to learn not to be assholes to eachother.  Hardly anything is made in a vacuum. The gutiar is bascially a simplifed lute. The lute is basically an oud in perfect 5ths instead of 4ths. The oud is a middle eastren instrument "discovered" during the 1st crusade when local musicians played them.  I have a cumbus (pronounsed JOOM-boosh) I got from Istambul. During my first visit it happened to be in the last week of Ramadan. The street parties at night were incredible. I wanted to learn some of the music, with a traditionalish instrument. While I balled on a budget.  The cumbus has an interesting history. Mustafa Ataturk visited the US. He *loved* the banjo. A turkish instrument manufacture combined the resinator of a banjo with the frett and strings of an oud, played with a plastic quill (kind of like a pick).  I  derive a lot of enjoyment from this instrument. Without the transmission of culture we would have any of these wonderful instruments. Because I omited their origins for brevity.
You should collab with Lindsey Ellis 😍 that would be waay too awesome!!!
1:45 so basically racism isn‘t something inherently wrong or evil. It is relative and only exists when the „dominant“ group does it? There is never nuance, and a person belonging to a minority or marginalized group can therefore never be racist or culturally insensitive? Doesn’t sound very convincing.
I'm glad my culture can't be appropriated, because it doesn't exist: "A specific German culture, beyond the language, is simply not identifiable." (Aydan Özoguz, German integration commissioner, in 2017)
As a Native crossing my fingers we will take over the country once again. 😎
Zepplin wasnt committing cultural appreciation. Its plagiarism
1:18 Not only racist but absurd. The first thing they are mocking off are themselves doing such stupidities.
1:10 Why do you say "men with donkeys" in a really poor Spanish? It makes no sense. In any case, neither Spanish nor Mexican people use donkeys except if they are on a work that requires their use (mostly related to agriculture, like being a farmer, a cowboy...)
0:30 "I'm already leaving. I just came to say goodbye... Goodbye, lady. Goodbye forever, goodbye." Sorry, but that is funny.  0:55 I don't even know who says "señoritas picantes". Literally it means "spicy women" but besides a "chulo" (person who goes to brothels often, and thinks the women are just a sexual object) I don't know who would say that...
You are the absolute best.
“For someone to appropriate a culture, they have to have a basic understanding of that culture.”
The scenario you gave of when it would be acceptable to have white lives matter rallies is kind of close to what is happening to a good deal of white populations in Europe. No? Genuinely want your take
this person is cool
There’s a whole runned down “theme park” (if you would call it that) called south of the border in South Carolina and it’s so cringe! It’s just profiting off of stereotypes and belittling a huge culture that isnt taken serious, now more than ever.  Worst of all, south of the border doesn’t even try to get the food right. They served me ... thick salsa ...obviously from the glass jar you by at the store.... heated up burritos from the frozen food isle.... and weird canned refried beans ))): I think that is what offends me the most. Please get our food right.
I just found you thanks to Vice. Love what your doing. Totally having a fan girl moment ❤️
9:09 Roger Stone
Your aesthetic had improved so much aaaaaa
If you see someone sincerely liking elements of your culture, but getting it all wrong, you should either ignore, or explain in a friendly manner. Like, don't tell somebody "You have no right to wear this kilt!". Tell them "You know you are not supposed to wear anything under that thing, right?"
I might complain if someone tried to be me, but I would probably just laugh.
What a thumbnail
I hope you've since changed your mind on this topic, Natalie, esp bc you wait for Black ppl to inform you on one topic and proceed to white your way past them on another, promptly...
Yeah, Chattanooga shout out!
Whats in the Box?!
I think you might have misappropriated the soundtrack for the hinduist part of the vid - sounds rather Kaukasian to me :p
So happy to be ethnically European :-)
Woah, Hinduism is actually Indo-european, which is European, so blacks are appropriating white culture
H O M B R E S    C O N      B U R R O S
hey you always shit on your old videos but this is pretty good
So...  Are you suggesting that we treat races differently based on nothing but how they've been treated in history? Sounds like a wonderful idea that couldn't possibly go wrong.
I miss Tower Records.
White people can borrow black people's stuff as long as they're careful about it. Eminem has never said the n word once in a song, and he has said that that's calculated. To me it's like sex, you can do quite a lot as long as you get consent and you ask if the other people involved are ok with it
I'm in Indonesia and we are so mad on trying to be like Americans or Japanese. So can say we try to appropriate those to our lifestyle. I'm not guilty either.
When you live 60 miles from Mexico, this wonderful thing happens: https://youtu.be/ZRJfRymYL3w
The internet was invented by white British people, so it should only be used by white British people, otherwise everyone will be appropriating their culture.
When it comes to cultural appropriation, it's very important to look at the individual cultures.   For example the Chinese Qipao (from what I have understood from a nb white friend who actually went to China and actually asked Chinese people themselves if it's okay for them to wear it) is only to be worn at special occasions. Business meetings etc. are also part of that. (If I am mistaken, please correct me). So the girl who sparked outrage on Social Media because she wore one to prom is, essentially, not in the wrong. It's when you start doing racist shit like running around screaming "cHInG ChANg cHoNg!" and/or using your fingers to mimic Asian eyes WHILE WEARING A QIPAO, that it's appropriation and straight up mockery. So it's important to understand the rules of the garment... and just not be racist little shits.   The Japanese love it when people from other countries wear their Kimonos. They encourage their culture being shared and love to see other people's takes on their original garment. That is not to say that there aren't other traditional Japanese garments that do have some sort of more sacred meaning. In that case, again, knowledge is key and people should do proper research.   We can't be offended by Polynesian people being offended at (white) people copying their sacred tattoos just because they "thought they looked lit". Some cultural things should be left alone.   So again, knowledge is power in this case. Research is key. Respect is important.
Nat I know you always talk about not watching your old videos in a semi joking way, but I think I would seriously be a lesser version if I didn't.  So I guess what I'm saying is, sorry-not--sorry for the first time in a non-ironic way.
I don't think cultural appropriation is a thing.  Every culture under the sun has always taken aspects of other cultures, and 'appropriated them'. Wearing a stupid mexican stereotype to a halloween party isn't racist, it's distasteful. Racism is just believing that your colour of skin is superior, it has nothing to do with wearing other culture's headdresses.
what’s in the boxxx
I don’t like white dreads just cuz our hair gets oily faster and dreads are hard to wash
I don't fully agree with the statement that cultural appropriation is ALWAYS wrong and immoral (I tend to believe it, as a concept, is neutral), but when it gets into power disparities and the celebration of superficial emulation of cultural aesthetics while ignoring the rich context behind them (eg. Whites emulating West African or Rastafarian hairstyles), and/or profiting from doing so, then it definitely crosses the boundary between cultural appreciation and cultural erasure.
is that footage from barraka at 3:39?
As someone who is caribbean-american I think people just look silly when they sprinkle in some caribbean accent into their music to make themselves seem cool, mostly because they're 1) bad at it and 2) most caribbean dialects are mutually intelligible with most "standard" english dialects. at least for Belizean kriol, an english-based caribbean dialect, there are differences in verb conjugation and pronunciation, but schooling is done in """the queen's english"""" so it's not like Kriol speakers don't already speak and understand american/canadian/british English. It's a different situation from speaking poor spanish to a spanish-only speaker, because that's a necessary step for communication to occur, vs speaking a caribbean dialect poorly, because there's really no reason to other than "to look cool" (spoiler: it's not that cool). as an analogy, it looks about as silly as if an american suddenly switched to their best british accent, unironically, in the middle of a song or upon realizing there was a british person around. like, it accomplishes nothing lmao
Contra was better as a male
You could have talked about Romans and Greeks
Be sure to -appropriate- appreciate that subscribe button
I'm a white latina, doing me a confusion XD
I know this is an old video and maybe you know about this by now but "Indians" is not the best way to refer to indigenous people in merica, I hear native American is still okay but usually not even the American in the name is wished for (for understandable reasons), so I think native american/indigenous people is the safe way to refer to them respectfully
The Kecak dance clip from the documentary, “Baraka” (shown at 3:39) is an interesting choice in a video about cultural appropriation because of its history:  “Kecak was originally a trance ritual accompanied by male chorus. In the 1930s, Walter Spies, a German painter and musician, became deeply interested in the ritual while living in Bali. He adapted it as a drama, based on the Hindu Ramayana and including dance, intended for performance before Western tourist audiences.  This is an example of what James Clifford describes as part of the "modern art-culture system"[3] in which, "the West or the central power adopts, transforms, and consumes non-Western or peripheral cultural elements, while making 'art,' which was once embedded in the culture as a whole, into a separate entity."[4] Spies worked with Wayan Limbak, who popularized the dance by arranging for performances by Balinese groups touring internationally. These tours have helped make the kecak internationally known.”  https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kecak
N
think there's a difference between celebrating/honoring the culture, and appropriating. Fine line.
we’re talking about cultural appropriation in my sociology class and we had to talk to a partner about it and some boy said that it’s fine and that we should also be able to use words like the n-word and other slurs
culture is supposed to evolve. i think the most racist thing anyone can do is prevent people from doing certain things because its "appropriating" aka you're not the right race or culture to do that.  hmmmmmmm sounds pretty racist and bullshitty. plus people are less offended by little things then you might think. really its not "appropriation" thats the problem, its when appropriation borders on racism, and racism is the problem. like for instance, Koreaboos who worship every single Korean person and idolize and disrespect them simply because they are Korean, like yeah, that's awful because they are goddamn humans just like you and not something to gawk at just because they are in a certain culture, but yet again, the problem here is that its borderline racism and extremely rude and disrespectful, and thats not something all forms of "appropriation" is. for instance, learning another language or loving a culture's music or even being completely in love with another culture, as long as you are _respectful_ about it and mindful of the mannerisms and customs of other people in other cultures, is great. basically culture is just something that is supposed to be influenced, and thats what makes it beautiful, but regardless of that be just be respectful in all situations. basically just use common sense and be a decent human
where did you get those boxes and why tf is there so much weird shit in them
Can we just agree dreads look gross on anybody?
I grew up with dreamcatchers because my parents were dumb hippies and I fell in love with the idea of a magic circle that keeps nightmares away. Should I throw it out?
I think it's fine to embrace other cultures, but I just think people should understand the difference between a culture and a stereotype and that generally people don't like to be generalized -- except those times when they do because -- irrational reasons??
WHAT IS IN THE JARS
Thank you!
Hawaiian Ukulele appeared when Hawaiians encountered Portuguese and Mexican folk music. Mexican “banda” uses traditional German folk instruments. Mexican culture in itself grew from the mixture of Indigenous and Spanish cultures, and Spanish culture is as well a mixture of ancient Celtic, Arab and Roman culture. Ancient Greeks built their religion on Egyptian mythology and later on the Romans did exactly the same. We Mexicans are commonly very proud of the way we prepare our “tacos al pastor” on “Trompos”, but it turns out that miles away from us Arabs use the same process to cook “Kebab”. There is no single group of people who can claim for itself the enterity of any cultural practice or trait. I’m not saying we shouldn’t be wary of Cultural appropriation. But if Mexicans and Portugueses had taken the same level of offense back in the day, there wouldn’t exist a Hawaiian Ukulele XD
You are even attractive as a white faced spook. I wonder if spook will set someone off?
I love your newer videos, but this one was just not well researched or thought about deeply  1:35  Maybe you should do your research before just assuming that all white cultures have never been oppressed (And to even say that just because a culture was never oppressed, that it is automatically ok to be clearly racist towards those people?). First of all, you showed a picture of a sports team that uses a stereotyped image of an Irish person. As an Irish woman, I can tell you that you are so very wrong in assuming that no other cultures ever were racist to or severely oppressed us (There’s a good reason why the Irish hate English and American people).   And don’t EVEN get me started on St. Patrick’s Day. The celebration, decoration, and commercialization of this sacred Irish holiday is probably the biggest form of cultural appropriation I have ever seen, but it’s never talked about because we’re “just white people” and therefore can’t be appropriated?? Just something that bothers me a lot, would have liked it if you’d done more research and thought about different opinions before just assuming.   Your new videos are much better though, so no grudges here, I know you were just starting out
It would be interesting to see M&M singing only Wagner for a year, just to see what it'd be like.
yes, mhmm, agree, yeap, oh yea! ow can we all agree that putting horns on viking helmets is just NO NO NO!
degenerates
By this logic no one who isn't Scottish would be allowed to wear plaid or kilts. These are important parts of Gaelic history and culture given no respect by those outside it. And before someone makes the "but oppression!" argument. Scots have been and still are being oppressed. Yes, it is by the English but it still counts.
I think both sides have twisted it to extremes. Not every person who's white is racist for enjoying something from another culture, but there are legitimate grievances, like with the native headdress. Some anti-sjw types saw that extremism then decided to combat it with extremism ugh. I mean look at Andy Warski's twitter banner ffs. They really need to be more nuanced
Seeing Stevie Ray Vaughan was absolutely the last thing i expected when i clicked this video. Need to clean up my desk now from my unexpected eargasm...
Kudos for this being the last place on earth I would expect an SRV reference.
What I wonder, as an uneducated cis white male, is if there are okay ways to adopt culture or mix culture. Stealing cultural works without giving credit is super shitty, but then again theft is just never okay.   To me it's really nice when cultures mix and develop together, but I wouldn't want anyone to steal culture or to destroy culture through oppression.
Dying for a video on the section on religion at at 3:40!
Didn’t the Celts have dread locks?
I believe dreads are a very spiritual thing. Not religion. But Spiritual within yourself (Nothing to do with religion)
"It's different than the way things are and I hate it." You have read my soul.
This is still a valid conversation, even though the vid is old, so I'll add my 2 cents. Individual things like hairstyles, clothing, music, food, etc. are fair game. And if it's legal to give it away, then it's legal (should be) to sell it. Your points are pretty good, especially about conditions like priviledged people "appropriating" marginalized people. Led Zeppelin played blues in their own style because they liked that music. They openly cite their influences in interviews; they certainly aren't hiding it. They made money on it...were they supposed to share it with someone? On album notes, sure as fuck they should credit individuals-wouldn't it be bizarre though if they just said, "Thanks to black folks for laying the foundation for our music". However, rest assured that virtually no 80s glam metal guitarists credited Eddie Van Halen every time that slapped some two-handed tapping into one of their cut n paste solos. Food: I love Mexican food. That is to say, I love tortillas, cheese, grease and guacamole. Can I (as a white guy) design my own derivative dishes and open my own Mexican restaurant? Why the fuck not? It's about the food, and the food is good. Or, must I only enlist people with Mexican heritage when I want a taco? Hairstyles? Wtf... it's hair. If you have hair, and you like a "look" do it. Nobody owns a style. Where any of this becomes a problem is when, like you say, its aim is mockery of a culture or stereotype. Like words, it's the intent behind them that matters. I hate the word appropriation in this context, cause I just know it's going to get misused and overused by over-sensitive people who think they are heroes for throwing it about.
White red black yellow shit white black.... can you people just stop this, Obssessing about races is the new racism, and you leftist cucks do it most.
when vikings came to north america for the first time they were exterminated by native americans, plus their religion no longer exists and their culture was completely appropriated by the francs. don't see anybody complaining! the iris have been opresssed by the british since medieval times. WTF are you talking abuot @contrapoints 1:49
what next? you're appropriating women? ! :D  as long as people are not using other cultural artifacts as instruments of ridicule then I don't really care. If marginalized cultures are upset when white people appropriate because of the current status of white people then I think we need to address those root causes of inequality and not be precious.  People shouldn't research their cultural heritage just so they can seek outrage and use it as political ammunition
Spirituality is shit?  I am officially done with you, you are sooooooooo biased that I thought it was a joke at first. No wonder normal people can't stand you brainwashed pos.
Led Zep pretty much did to the Blues what Disney does to (mainly European) folk tales/lore.
I think the people who make a mockery of other races are shitty people. But appropriation is fine by me. It doesn’t make any difference to me live your life however you want.
HOMBRES CON BURROS
So was he saying (he should have been) that just as I, a white American male, don't share a culture with Greeks, Hungarians, Russian, even though our skin pigmentation is the same; so too, an African American, Haitian, and a Nigerian, don't share a common culture, even though their skin pigmentation is the same? And therefore, an African American who wears dreadlocks and/or a dashiki, is also appropriating a foreign culture. There's no difference, unless you see mere skin pigment as a culture in and of itself, which is obviously silly.
Man, it is so painful to watch. There's literally pain in my butt, when privileged teens from america's academy are trying to define what skin color allow you to wear what. That's just insane.
Subbed for the Texas flood reference. Hahahaha
Solve this by culturally appropriating the awful shit nobody wants to be associated with. Need to murder someone? Make sure to scalp them too. Have a daughter? Cut off her clitoris. Pissed off at neighbours? Burn a cross in their backyard. Decapitate some peasants with a Katana. Eat some people. Harvest someone’s organs.   Nobody will ever be mad at you for cultural appropriation again!
True story; I almost got into a fight in germany becuase people thought I was a Nazi skinhead....I'm black. So I gues I can't shave my head wear jeans and combat boots? :D
But the Irish did face genocide. Cromwellian plantation, basically any of the plantations and the potato famine which could have been lessened if the British didn't purposely cripple our way of life and then refused to properly help us when we were in dire need. 1 million people emigrated and 1 million people died, so a quarter of our population disappeared. Like come on, the Irish have had it bad, not saying that it's comparable to the wrongs done to black people, but I do think the Irish have a very valid reason to be pissed about cultural appropriation too
Dude ,there is nothing racist about wearing Mexican clothes for fun.  You are actually proving that SJW's are bunch of authoritarian fascist who want to control other peoples lives and movements with this video.
Culture is a social construct. Cultural appropriation is therefore a social construct. Let's just destroy all society already. We don't know how to use it.
OMG🤣🤣🤣🤣🤣🤣🤣🤣🤣🤣🤣🤣🤣🤣🤣🤣🤣🤣
When you said that thing about only white people being offended by your dreads...that is what I generally think when it comes to "cultural appropriation" - a lot of white people use this word by policing other white people to fuel their own ego, to somehow feel like they know more than other people, while no other race feels particularly offended by certain things. It's as if some white people think they even know better than others what racism etc. is while nobody asked them.
Looks like I am late to the party but I love the channel so on a Netflix style binge watch.    I'm a middle aged white guy in the UK trying to keep up with an ever changing world - all the more so cause I have a couple of lovely young kids now.   I hung around the UK new age traveller scene in the early 90's - aka took shit loads of ecstasy and went to illegal raves (Castlemortan the cherry on top of the cake - https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/uk-england-hereford-worcester-39960232) and dreads were everywhere.  I for one gave no thought to where/why etc people had dreads, but hey it was one hell of a party back then and that was more the focus :-)  We didn't give a shit and through my life lens that seems like a nice way to approach life , but maybe I was/still am dumb.  So....  There is an argument that "cultural appropriation" is wrong and now I see we now have "Blackfishing" where some girls (not sure I recall any blokes) are pretending to be black and they are ridiculed (rightly in my slowing shriveling mind).  So my question - where does a man wearing woman's clothing fit in all this.  Could there be an argument that there are parallels - should women be up in arms?  And I'm asking that in the knowledge you look great (can I say even in the Nazi uniform :-) )
My school's mascot is a Native American  "The EP Raiders"  OOf
Hi. I just discovered you and am totally addicted to your videos.
Wait minute thing like nu metal then or maybe loop hole that only White people wear dredd need to fans of nu metal then
my mexican friend said that it's only appropriation if it sucks because if you respect the culture, you'll be good enough for it to be okay and i think that's pretty funny.
I think the whole concept of "cultural appropriation" is nonsense. You risk offending people, sure, but it ultimately does no actual harm. What is harmful on the other hand is try to impose your own culture on other people. I'm from Argentina and I'll be damned the day I see more McDonalds than parrillas in my city.
mocking other cultures is an important form of dialogue between populations. while it may be in bad taste to mock native american culture by dressing up on helloween it is still better than being a puritan fuck who wants to keep the cultures separate. mocking is what people do (mostly a male thing though) to set up friendship. you test were the limits are and lough about each other and yourself, and finally come to a kind of understanding. it prevents things from spiraling out of control and leading to violence.
so spot on! Thanks so much for this.
"I like to get filled up inside with his Texas Flood, oh yeah!" --- Awesome!!!
Playing Hamlet Gonashvilli to represent Hindu mysticism... that’s cultural inappropriation
I'm a eskimo who made a utauloid who is black but has blue eyes and blonde hair.
'Culture isn't your friend'. People are binding feet and cutting up genital in the name of it. It mates with anything it touches and easily used to manipulate. Be your own.
Viewing cultural exchange as a struggle between ethnic groups with differing levels of power makes for an interesting descriptive model but I'm not sure how people can justify attaching value judgements to it and treating it as a proscriptive model. I liked the point you made about culture not always corresponding directly to race, which to me seems to undermine even the descriptive part of the idea. Though in the interest of fairness I'd be willing to believe that whoever came up with the idea probably just meant it to be purely about culture and had no idea that SJWs would hijack it as part of their helter-skelter ideology. I'd like to add that the concept of cultural ownership is also poorly justified and highly ideological and that the idea that borrowing culture from a less powerful group than one's own is necessarily harmful is not well evidenced.   In any case, I'm a big-brained millennial edge-lord so bring on the dogpile. jk, please don't hurt me.
And cyberpunk culture
As long as people acknowledge the hypocrisy of treating a certain group of people like shit while simultaneously sampling their culture, sample all you want.   But no one ever acknowledges this. Like the fact that the rock n roll was originally "race music" to scare white people away from enjoying it. Just an acknowledgment. That's all.
If Dreads means a particular thing to you that’s fine, but I don’t see how someone else styling their hair a particular way threatens or interferes with your personal freedoms beliefs and practices. The unwarranted hubbub about dreads delegitimizes this issue.
Thank you so much for this thoughtful exploration of this tough topic. I really appreciate that you mention towards the end the logical results of all of the intense radical offense: artistic isolation based on ethnic heritage.  Clearly, there are HUGE problems with how cultural exchanges have happened throughout human history, but locking all of us away into cultural ghettos (prisons really) based on skin color is NOT the answer.  The anger people feel over very real exploitation and inequity is real and justified, but we need better solutions.  I hope we can move towards a space where it is more possible for more healthy equal exchanges of culture to occur in a way that serves all parties.
My issue with white people with dreadlocks is that it's just matted hair from what I've seen and its just kinda gross on our part
Mexican here. Costumes are okay by me, as long as you don't paint your face. Then it's retarded.
contra "oh I know im being Offensive by wearing calavera faceprint and defending white people with dreads but whatever... im too cool to care about being Offensive" points. please stay in your fucking lane, your takes have been said before by every other white person.
ok I contra I am really fuckin trying but Jesus Christ... Please Be Quiet you are so white and your takes are NOT fresh
contra I love u but this is a lil bit white... u have a lot of enwhitlement when in comes to topics in which ur the oppressor..
What. The fuck. Was in. Those. Jars.
That wasn't as thorough as I thought it would be. Granted it was 2-3 years ago, but I would have loved to hear about the interplay between cultures of similar power dynamics (like Japan and the US) whose "appropriation" is more similar to "cultural exchange", and how this differs from imbalanced power dynamics between minorities within the US having their culture appropriated by the dominant demographics.  Keep up the good work though!
Wow. I totally agree. Like these are my exact views.
I admit I'm kind of confused about discussions on this topic in part because I'm half Japanese and old enough to remember when Japanese people in Japan were arguing that non-Japanese people should not be allowed to hold the title of Yokozuna (roughly, champion) in sumo. The arguments they used sounded a lot like cultural appropriation arguments, and my distaste for those arguments is (rightly or wrongly) what comes to mind whenever people talk about cultural appropriation.
When I had dreadlocks, the Senegalese people living near me would smile at me and shout "rasta woman!" excitedly.  For me it felt like a more natural way to wear my hair. I've brushed them out recently because I was sick and tired of people viewing me as immature and an unfit mother because of them. I might get dreadlocks again in the future though.  Here in Europe it's really not a big deal for white people to have dreadlocks. I was surprised actually when a Canadian girl told me it is a big deal where she's from.  I think what matters most is the reasoning behind these sort of things. I didn't have dreadlocks to look rasta, because I don't know shit about Rastafarianism. I just had them because it felt right for me.
American cultural exchange: glass beads and poxed blankets for hills, valleys and fur pelts. And the thieves have been winning ever since. I buried my heart at wounded walmart. Native people were called 'red skin' not because of their skin color but because of the blood covering their skin after being murdered by europeans. Does that make football a blood sport?
What about nu metal then
Ok what about nu metal
Contrapoint you made my new year, you're so interesting, happy new year
Agree 100% with you! No to cultural caricatures, yes to... you know that fancy word you used at the end. Mis... something.
The best take I have seen on this topic anywhere. Good job
So for my cut off point for Cultural Appropriation outrage: food. Everyone should appropriate the fuck out of everyone's food. I WILL force hamenstashen down your throat (it's okay, it's Vegan if you do it right) and you will yank fried rice and chicken makhni out of my cold, dead hands.  FETTUCINE FOR ALL!!!!
That face paint reminds me of Denzel Currys Clout Cobain
Finally some rationality in the debate on cultural appropriation. I love what you had to say here and I'm very excited to see these concepts evolve as more people are empowered and cultures continue to blend.
I'm sorry but I don't agree whatsoever with anything this guy said
you changed my mind on this. thank you.
All I can say is, we should maybe spend less time getting offended by things that aren’t meant to offend us and save it for things that aren’t just offensive but actually harmful.
Whoa,  Jumping into an old contrapoints video from a new contrapoints video is WAY weird, but way cool at the same time 🤣
Ok korn and nu metal then
My dream would be that everyone on the radio just sang Wagner.
"Gringo motherfuckers..."  :)
My hair naturally dreads itself if it is the right length. I really do not care if that offends people.
Think about it this way: It’s only cultural appropriation if it’s adopted by the person to *make fun* of the culture. If you’re just adopting it for convenience or pleasure, but not making fun of the culture, it’s just cultural exchange.
what if we don’t take everything so seriously and let people do whatever they like. I’ve never taken offense to somebody dressing up as a mexican i find kind of funny actually. Ive even dressed up as a redneck before and everybody took it a joke. Not everything has to be a problem
Dammit! I only only kinda know medieval runes… :(
I thought this was an NPR tiny desk concert.
Is it cultural appropriation when a chinese person wears a suit? What about when Japanese society was muddled after western countries? Is it only bad when white people are the ones appropriating?
The idea that dreadlocks is cultural appropriation is silly. I'm white. I have dreads in my hair right now, but you'd never know. My hair dreads itself, and every time I get a haircut the barber snips the dreads out. I'm pretty sure it would be my hairs natural state in nature...
It doesn't matter what you think about white dreadlocks
Yo! Love your insights even though I don't agree with all of them. Here's my issue with the topic of Cultural Appropriation: It seems to discourage an understanding of history. Cultures as we understand them in the moment of now, are largely a function of decades of assimilation of other ideas. For example, much of what we see as historical Japanese female "culture" actually was appropriation from Chinese female culture. I see nothing offensive about geisha dress. But maybe if I was Chinese and 200 years old, I would.  All culture- where ever- is derivative of something else. The boundary is not appropriation; it is respect.
i had dreads for a while, but it was because i did not wash my hair for a month
I agree 100%. I love the way ur not mindlessly to extreme left or right, can think for urself, and I love the way u express things in such an interesting and creative manner, as well as the fact, we agree on alot of things. U seem more like a liberal centrist than sjw, sensitive and empathic, progressive, but not so progressive that u end up regressive, and that I can relate too. U seem to think like I think. I agree. Calling things "cultural appropriation" often seems like the new segregation, as often ppl brainlessly and racistly stick culture w/ race, and to not think u can do w/e music, eat w/e food, and ect. b/c ur of a certain ethnicity is racist af, as well as eleatist. Fact is all countries and cultures "culturally appropriate" things, and then many cultures mix and create a brand new culture which is beautiful b/c of it's many influences, and what is known once to be part of one culture associated w/ a particular music or religion, soon becomes part of another, and ppl should all be free to enjoy it and be a part of any culture they choose. Ofc like u say, ppl shouldn't exploit and rob a culture either, or use slander against them like certain football teams do, and certain halloween costumes. As part native american, and as just a decent human being, I find it fked up that theirs a football team slurring Cherokee ppl, and it's messed up that Elvis is credited as "king of rock & roll" b/c their was such prejudice against the black ppl (who invented it) bk then that they wouldn't get as famous no matter how good they were. I think that's not likely to happen in our society today but, cultures are still mocked by certain co, esp native americans, and mexicans, and that ain't cool. I guess I'm repeating alot of what u said but, it's really cool that we think so much alike on many issues.
How is cultural appropriation a thing but “sex appropriation” isn’t?  Ya know, male motherfuckers dressing up like females? Would I be appropriating Mexican culture if I just REALLY went for it and insisted I was literally really an actual Mexican?
I disagree with this so much. My disagreement is in what he considers cultural appropriation. You are not appropriating anything even if you use it to mock or whatever. This american concept is very stupid and you can take any instance and pick it apart and show there's no such thing as appropriating by looking at the intentions of the person doing it. Having an Indian mascot? so what, it makes reference to a group of people. So effing what? this is nonsense and a huge exaggeration. Which is born from the idea that people do things related to other races with malicious intentions. How the hell do american people get sucked into this crap is beyond me.
Maybe the races should separate if one group isnt allowed to be a part of the multi culture
I think that this idea that western culture only colonizes and that other cultures are appropriate is a bit naive. Influence between cultures has always existed, in fact there are countless examples of back and forth between even very distant cultural aspects. Also any culture that adopts something from somewhere else adapts it to a new context. I think that americans have a very violent racial segregation past and that leads to more sensitive attitudes. Still it looks like some cultural aspects are more visible and viewed as appropriation, while other remain invisible and out of critics. In my country most people love eating halva, yet few know it was brought by greek emigrants, in fact many know it for its most famous brand name, and not the real name. So is it cultural appropriation if those products came from immigrants and now everyone has accepted them?
Is buying  armament from western powers cultural appropriation?
I’ve lived in Japan for about 5 yrs now, participated in ceremonies and festivals, and I’ve observed that the Japanese do not care, and actually seem to like it, when foreigners adopt native styles.  So much of their own culture was imported from China, I think the idea of cultural appropriation (as a bad thing) is strange to them.  Caricature is another matter, they’re certainly sensitive about that.  But they seem positively eager to export their culture to respectful recipients.
Don't forget ancient Greeks. They also had dreadlocks.
I disagree with you
Dreadlocks occur naturaly when you dont wash your hair unless we are apropriating dirt no race can claim it
I've been loving watching your material latley. You know your stuff and I think you did a really good job with this topic. However, you kind of leave it with the impression that you think people shouldn't complain about this sort of thing. I'm writing a chapter about this in my PhD thesis so have done a lot of digging on the subject. Mimesis has been an academic topic of discourse for a long long time - but it would have been nice if this video had acknowledged where this RECENT (highlighting not shouting) hype around the subject has come from. You kinda covered the point that needs to be made with the football team names, but it would have been good to have included the  Navaho. They've been on a 16 year long mission to get the support of the United Nations to protect thier sacred cultural artifacts from being touted at festivals by those same white dreadlock SJWs pissed up and off thier knackers on mandy (aren't we all a white dreaded SJW of out teets on mandy, at heart? 'we're tribal like you'). Or the Inuit who had his design stollen and sold for £600per hoodie. Those instances should not be lost because some black girl wanted to project some shit at a white guy with dreads after half reading an article that obviously empowered her to be a racist, agressive tw*t.  The trigger to this whole modern day outrage was a very important part of this discussion. It is a genuinely sympathetic argument for the need of some legislation around this issue. But yes of course I agree - not all enjoyment of other cultures is appropriation of the kind that needs to stop. Culture is not race and we need to share our toys the like good little talking monkies we are.   Thanks for your hard-working and sharing your brain with us. ❤️💙💚💛💜🧡
No! All members of one race should just stick to their own kind and keep their stuff for themselves. Dreadlocks are INHERENTLY black, whereas cars and lightbulbs are INHERENTLY white, due to their inventors not having a lot of melanin in their skin. It is totally logical, that cultural content is 100% determined by (and therefore tied to) race.  (Warning! This is sarcasm! Just in case someone doesn't understand.)
Cultures are NOT races.  Black people in Africa don't give a shit about dreadlocks, only the US ones do - nothing to do with race or racism.
4:56 the music in the background isn't even related to Hinduism it's Georgian folk music you CULTURAL APPROPRIATING PIECE OF
I'm brave enough to shout it's crap without watching it
My opinion, white people wearing dreads is a good thing. They'll understand how people with different hair get shit on just for wearing their hair natural. When a white person gets fired or forced to cut their hair because they wear dreads, they'll understand what it's like. I don't appreciate it when people ignore the culture of it, though.
'Chattanooga honkie's damn lets make this a reality
There's a difference between wearing a poncho because you like it and wearing one as a costume with a 'Green Card' thing around your neck.
Fucking genius
"No one gives a damn about you and your hypothetical problems."  How to answer SJWs on their own terms.
so you're saying cultural appropriation is fine as long as the culture you're appropriating from hasn't been oppressed? (even tho whites have been oppressed in history multiple times and are about to extinct) do you not see anything wrong with that?
YES!
Don't like Contrapoints... I love her; who would have guessed Milton's paradise lost could be found!
Only Donald Trump is always wrong except when he is on a Dreadlock Holiday singing like 10cc  :I don't like cricket oh no; I love it. Don't you cramp me style, Don't you queer me pitch, Don't you walk thru my words 'Cause you ain't heard me out yet..... Ozzie Rules see https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-tqSIpr0T0w&list=RD-tqSIpr0T0w&index=1
Your Spanish accent is terrible
Coming from someone who is more right-leaning, I thought this video was really well done. I really enjoy your videos!
Kanekalon is made in Japan and is used in Japanese wigs. Also the Japanese are very willing to sell it around the world. So, no, I will not feel ashamed for wearing it in braids in my hair. If I'm appropriating a culture, it's JAPANESE CULTURE, and Black Amaricans are doing the EXACT SAME THING. The Japanese don't seem to mind.  For the best Kanekalon in the most amazing area of colors ever, go to this British Girl's site:   http://ikickshins.net
'Cultural appropriation' is a term created for one reason, as ammunition for mud slinging against white people only. You highlight this yourself by only mentioning white people. There are thousands of examples of cultural appropriation occurring all the time between all cultures. An example of this would be fusion cuisines created all around the world. The term is just another brick to sling at the white boogie man, other examples include: 'Toxic masculinity' and 'Tyrannical patriarchy'.
Whats that clip from at 7:55
Me a Jewish Korean, I don’t give a shit about what you where.
Wearing a mask out of context is about as disrespectful as wearing black on a sunday, it's meaningless. Anger just makes it a fashion statement, that's how much the world cares about you. Everyone makes fun of each other, carving out their own ends; until we're sore and bitter with it, and we can't feel the love anymore.  We're dying. No, reproduction won't save you. Resources won't save you. You can't work your way out of fact, the end is coming for you, so you best start living how you can before the end.
It is okay to go to a party dressed as a naaaaaatzee. It's also okay to shoot people. Just, win. Wait, winning's pretty hard. What do you mean people fight back!? WHAT DO YOU MEAN THERE'S A COMPETITOR?
You are truly wonderful, @ContraPoints. Never stop being you. Many blessings to you!
Is a black man in a suit and tie appropriating my white culture? Is an Asian guy wearing Abercrombie and Fitch racist against whites? The fact that cultural appropriation seems to be an offence only white people can be guilty off, proves that it's bullshit.
“Sissy cracker” 😂😂
cUaNtOs aÑoS TiEnEs
I think this video makes many valid points, and I wish that you connected some dots more thoroughly- the part at the end about some peoples screwing over and exploiting others is exactly the reason it's problematic for white people to use black culture so freely. When you put these interactions into historical context, white institutions/ peoples reap the benefits of black culture and skip over acknowledging that the US could not exist the way it does now without the systemic exploitation and oppression of black people that continues to this day. Regarding braids/ cornrows specifically, here is a video that I think does a pretty good job: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yFGwmUCH9aI
Been following your channel recently - really enjoying your content, but I have one little niggle with this. I appreciate I'm just gonna look like a Zeppelin fanboy (the username probably gives it away), but I never really got the "stealing from the original blues artists" argument. Instrumentally, these Zeppelin songs are a million miles away from the songs they supposedly rip off. The only similarity is that Robert Plant used the lyrics from the blues songs he grew up with to pay tribute to his favourite bluesmen & blueswomen. Listen to a track like When The Levee Breaks and compare it to the original by Memphis Minnie, and you'll see there really is no case for appropriation.
White people with dreads? Play "Butterfly"
Oh my god, thank you for putting this shit into words, I've been trying to put this into words for months now.
I'm going to necro this comments section to say that my general rule of thumb for cultural appropriation is the appropriation part.  if nothing is being lost, then there has been on appropriation.  If a group loses social currency, actual currency, freedom etc for doing a thing that a dominant culture (say, the whites) are praised for, then that's appropriation.  If it's just two groups sharing a thing, that's not.
Yes your videos are actually about something! And they're hilarious, thank u
Instead of labeling something as cultural appropriation, it might be a better idea to actually give an argument for why you think something is bad behaviour. People tend to think it's enough to say “you are appropriating” to someone, without giving any argument. But because it's such a broad and vague term, this hardly suffices. It's way better to state directly why you think someone is not sharing the culture but undermining it. I am all for sharing cultures, even if they're not yours, I honestly don't think there's something inherently bad in that unless it becomes a mockery that degrades the cultural influence of the people you're appropriating. I'm a liberal progressive, but I'm done with people who think that labeling something as unwanted in any way is a good argument for other people to change their mind on a subject. And actually taking the time to talk and explain something to someone might give you a new perspective on other people's worldviews. And that's worth something, even if their views suck.
Dear god I came here from Lindsay’s Pocahontas video essay just to get the taste of the comment section out of my mouth.
I have been traveling to the Northern regions of Russia for several years to learn more about the culture and traditions of indigenous peoples. The aims of this focus piece are firstly to do a conceptual analysis of the concept of intersectionality, and contextualise it for Russian Far North, Siberia or Russian Far East. For their part, indigenous small-numbered peoples of the North told researchers that they believed they continued to face prejudice, mistreatment, and inequality in the broader society. Many tribes struggle, as they are often located on reservations isolated from the main economic centers of the country As citizens of particular tribal nations, the welfare and safety of indigenous small-numbered peoples and indigenous women of North, are directly linked to the authority and capacity of their nations to preserving their culture and spiritual values. We advocate for and protect the civil rights, social justice, and racial equity of all indigenous small-numbered peoples in all parts of Russian society. As part of this study, I will raise issues such as the gender role of the indigenous peoples of the North, sexual victimization of women, cultural appropriation. This topic does not receive enough attention in Russia, despite the fact that it is important for many people. If you want, you can help me research and promote the ideas of intersectional feminism in hard-to-reach regions.  Webmoney Z961362796707; X193370375927
So cultural caricature is only an issue when its done to a marginalized group, so why is it okay for the irish, who have been subject to colonialism, slavery, ethnic cleansing, oppression, forced serfdom etc? Ohh right cause all white people are a monolithic group of oppressors...  Can't we just agree that everyone and everything can be caricatured and mocked or as Von der Lippe put it "Everyone has the right to be made fun of"
I fucking love that you make make fun of the shit people take to serious while pointing out the real problems buried underneath sjw victim mentality
Simply put.. Who gives a shit
1:20 in and yeah, I'm already out. I tried, I really did.
It´s nice that you are nuanced but here I really would have been happier if you had just come out and said this is bullshit, at least with the level of real problems we have in the world, this is just a silly issue people use for holier than thou purposes because the "problem" is ideal for browsing Instagram until you find a sinner individual and point the finger at them. But of course that is my take not yours.  Actually I don´t give much of a shit about Halloween costumes either because everyone KNOWS it is a stereotype, why can´t we just all follow the reasoning from the wise Mexican girl below "you can make fun of me if I can make fun of you"? Opponents say it is not funny with caricatures of a group that is victim of real discrimination but really, then the problem IS the real discrimination, not the costumes.
Excellent video (as always). We should ditch altogether the concept of cultural appropriation as it is currently used, for things that either can be more accurately named differently, as "disrespect", sheer racism or whatever. Other things are just completely harmless, like white people with dreadlocks.  The concept of cultural appropriation is pure cultural essentialism, and that's not only wrong but also very dangerous, and opposed to any real anti-racist struggle, IMHO. In that sense, I fully agree with what Appiah says here about the issue: http://downloads.bbc.co.uk/radio4/transcripts/2016_reith4_Appiah_Mistaken_Identities_Culture.pdf  Having said that, I think there are two cases in which the term "cultural appropriation" makes sense:  1) When members of a culture or a country claim that something belongs to that culture/country when it doesn't. Case in point: Israelis claiming that hummus is Israeli.  2) When people attributes universal values exclusively to the culture/civilization they belong. For instance, many people in the "West" claim that certain ideas (freedom, individual autonomy, democracy and so on) would claim that those are purely "Western" ideas that may or may not be spread to other "civilizations", ignoring the fact that the same concepts figure prominently in many other places outside Europe. (See Jack Goody's The Theft of History on this).  Other than that, "cultural appropriation" is either, at best a misnomer for something else that is bad or, at worst, a recipe for the radical separation of different groups.
Once had a student of mine accuse me of appropriation for trying to teach her that a lot of Asian music uses pentatonic scales, and playing a Korean song called “Arirang” as an example. Yeah, the offense-taking has gone a bit too far
I'm hispanic and I don't care if white people think marimbas are funny and no, it's not because I lack understanding about the "issue".
TOWER RECORDS HOLY SHIIIIIIT
Lena Dunham told white people to stop eating sushi? What a waste of a brain.
go redskins. also i had dreads for 7 years and still have them in a box. loved it, 10/10. unrelated to the redskins. ALSO I FUCKING FACED WORKPLACE DISCRIMINATION FOR HAVING LOCKS. I'M NOT FUCKING MILEY BEIBER. In conclusion, fuck "cultural appropriation". This is a stupid "issue". FINAL EDIT: contrapoints is HILARIOUS. L@FF very funny person good videos keep doing it even though maybe I disagree sometimes but that's ok right
Why care about any of this? What’s the binding ethic? It seems to be nothing... then suddenly something.
The glasses. Tell us about the glasses. Please. Glasses. Tell us about them.
zeppelin is overrated anyways
wooow your voice. i discovered your channel after transitioning and man, LE CHANGE. i must say, i do prefer your drag mickey voice, so much fancier and familiar.
DISCLAIMER: Advocatus Diaboli  The thing is: I am kind of on the side that I don't give any shit about culture or race... That shit just really annoys me for some reason. And yes *sigh* I am white... But I am not proud of what my fucking ancestors did an neither have you any reason to be.   The same way I, the person typing this, can't be held accountable that some power hungry racist numbnuts (who happened to be born in the same country as I) decided that they need a scapegoat for their complex problems, you, the person reading this didn't fight in Africa against the segregation or bravely refused to stand up for a white person. (These were important & admirable people that we all should take inspiration from and follow their examples no matter our origin!)  If there are problems, disadvantages or hatred that is gender, race or sexuality motivated then we need to address these! For example, it should be embarrassing for our society that we need movements like: "Black Lifes Matter", that there is still a Gender Wage gap and that we NEED organizations like the "Trevor Project". But I think relying on your ancestors to give yourself a personality or be proud because someone in your bloodline did X or Y is just nonsensical.
The Irish have been discriminated against... yet you glossed over it like it's not a real thing. I get that it wasn't as bad as some other groups, but it's not the point. If naming a team after Black Hawk - an actual person - is racist because it resembles a group, why are you okay with naming a team after a white-ethnic group that faced a decent amount of discrimination in America and Europe?
Nothing bothers me more then when people comment on videos about cultural appropriation and say, "well as an Irish, Mexican Indian, Chinese...etc I am not bothered by it" Okay cool but that doesn't mean that other people aren't or that it isn't an issue in society. You don't speak on behalf of your community.
I like how most of this video is making fun of the few "serious" bits... It's like you both wanna makes us take this seriously and at the same time laugh about it...  Imo this topic (as many others) is what makes the left looks ridiculous and just shows how our human nature tends to create problems where there aren't
Personally, I think white people and other people in positions of authority shouldn't discriminate black people with their natural hair and traditional (or less traditional) hairstyles. On the other side of things, people should really take a second to consider: does "not brushing your hair and letting it naturally (almost every straighter hair type naturally tangles up as long as its free of oil) tangle up in separated portions" equal as culture? Can a group of people own "not brushing your hair" and forbid people of other heritages from not brushing their hair?   Black people who critizice the way "white" locks look like, at the same time complaining about white people disliking black locks, you're horribly hypocritical, saying that other people shouldn't be allowed to wear a hairstyle because of YOU not liking how it looks like.   I care about cultural appropriation, the kind that actually is appropriation and harmful. I also care deeply about racism issues. What I don't give a fuck about, is someone not liking how my hair looks like, no matter who it is. It sucks that there are black people who feel appropriated by other peoples hair, which must make them feel bad, whether I agree with them or not. But if I don't brush my hair, I'm not appropriating your culture.  You cannot own matted hair, or a certain size or amount of braids. Hair has matted on our heads since we've evolved to walk on two legs. Braids, big and small, have been used most likely in almost every culture around the world.
I guess I don't understand cultural appropriation. I'm a gen x with 80s ideals of the Borg I mean... The great melting pot. I'm white, I practice and teach yoga, I belly dance... When I go to Vedanta, they're cool with my wearing a big ass sari. I almost converted to Judaism. It's modern grumpity socialite worriers that get the most butt hurt over my interest in the Cultures and people around me.
A lot of people don't know what the phrase "cultural appropriation" means so they make assumptions to what it implies. It's really a neutral term and can be good or bad depending on the context. It all depends on attitude and intent.
what's in the jars?
This was a well thought-out and reasoned video, as usual. This is a topic which I feel a lot of people either zealously defend or zealously disparage, as with all vaguely political topics on the internet. Now, I am an American white man, but I think, generally, the main rule one should follow when thinking about cultural appropriation is that of respect. This may sound reductive and obvious, but this is culture we're talking about. Cultures take things from each other  all the time. Sure, this taking hasn't always been peaceful, but in our increasingly globalized society, it is nearly impossible to live out in the world and utilize something that someone from a different culture made.  Though, as you have said, the very segregation of different cultures is itself an inherently bad one. If we were to actually legislate which pieces of culture certain people could partake in, then, ultimately, a free exchange of ideas that a healthy society thrives off of would  be impossible, as any person who sought inspiration from outside their group would be labelled as a cultural appropriator. Of course, this line of thinking presupposes that racial and cultural traits are the most important aspect of a person, which is a notion which breeds inter-racial fear and distrust. It is my view that the only thing that matters, ultimately, is a person's humanity. So long as they have that, they deserve to be treated with the same respect as any other person.   I think the same concept should apply to culture, though detail must be paid to the context, as that is all culture is, really. Context for why people act the way they do. You wouldn't burn a cross in your yard, for example, even though there isn't an inherently racist meaning in doing so. You wouldn't do it because, in America, the burning of the cross has been used by racists to signify... I'm not entirely sure what it signifies, actually, but I'm sure it isn't anything good.   Regardless, the view that cultures are immutable and independent of each other is, as far as I can tell, segregationist, reactionary, and wrong. Certainly, people need to understand the context of the things which they borrow from other people, so as to avoid disrespect of the originators. But for someone to say that because I'm white I can't play blues or have dreadlocks is only seeing me as a white person, not as a person. For me to dress up in any one of the Halloween costumes which you showed at the beginning of your video would be me reducing the people of that culture to little more than cardboard cut-outs of flesh and blood people, and therefore inherently disrespectful.   I can see that this isn't exactly a perfect system. How much respect is acceptable? Isn't the acknowledgement that the thing which I am partaking in came from another culture accepting the notion that cultures are separate from one another?   Oh well. I'm just some YouTube commenter. What'd you expect? An actual answer to a complicated sociological issue?
pretty much agree, but i do also believe that its important for /equality/ to not make any special exceptions to the rules for any specific races.
Literally every culture on the planet has had dreadlocks at some point in its history as part of the way people wear their hair, the reason for this is because when hair is dirty it matts, and rather than waste precious time and resources on stopping it they simply adopted it into their lifestyle and moved on. To declare dreadlocks as a blacks only hair style is not only racist both toward black people and everyone else but it is also demonstrably incorrect. Also for the record the Nordic peoples and many other white cultures in Europe had dreads within their culture as well. I'll thank you to abandon this indefensible position.      Also, if one is seeking to get others to be more sensitive and accepting and just... in general nicer to others, being bitchy (This is in response to 'no one cares about your imaginary problems' which is ironic given that cultural appropriation is seen as one by and large except by those that dogmatically ascribe to the ideology that pushes it) is not an effective route to get that done. It will do nothing but alienate those you're trying to win over and do the exact opposite of what you're trying to accomplish. It makes you look unreasonable, oversensitive and gives the impression that you're trying to police the hearts and minds of those around you which trust me won't win you points with anyone.  Culture should be appreciated, segregating it and relegating it to simple segments of the human race is destructive, regressive and not helpful in any way. If we as a race are to achieve  unity we are only going to do that by coming together, not by keeping ourselves separated. So I couldn't agree with you more in the sense that cultural miscegenation is the key to mutual understanding and eventual peace. I may be naive in my hope that one day humans will eventually find peace and no longer need to kill, enslave and exploit each other for personal gain but naive or not I do still hold this hope.   However I don't want this to seem like some kind of antagonistic diatribe meant to tear you down or anything of the sort. I watch your videos because I find you to be insightful even when I don't agree with you. And moreover I will continue to do so in the future as I've subscribed to you and recommended your channel to my friends. But I'm gonna need you to stop talking dirty or I might have to do something inappropriate to myself when no one is looking. Meow. xD
Fuck Led Zeppelin
Cultural appropriation is the fuel that drives the development of cultures in any world where they interact. Sure it doesnt always benefit everyone equally, but to argue for stopping it is to argue from an isolationist standpoint.
So... 7:55. Where's that scene from?
He's not so different now that he became a trap.
You missed the part where white people stole a bunch of other cultures shit and profited off it, so the cultural IP that remains, and cultural traditions as well that people from respective cultures ask to keep as their own is well within their right, and justified, as so many things that once were that cultures, were stolen from them. Spitballing but still beeg fax
Adiós mujer para siempre adiós 🎵🎵
I don't agree.
My friend’s white ex would wear braids like the black rappers he liked listening to. With his crappy personality in context, I was bothered by it as black myself. Because he liked to seem cool or whatever emulating rappers but didn’t care about the oppression of said race. So technically he wasn’t doing anything wrong, I just didn’t like or appreciate it.
Are you going to face the past and read this comment, my queen?  There's no need to worry about who you were bae.  I always loved you for your insides.   Cover me with your insides.
Ah I miss tower records.
I just suffered through a 5-minute-long PragerU advert (Southern Strategy Myth).  I hope you got paid, THAT was painful. ✌❤💀
Dreadlocks were worn by many early Germanic tribes, soooooo....
Contrapoints is an SRVW
People that put forward the idea of cultural appropriation can't have a creative or artistic bone in their body. If they did they would know it's fucking impossible to create anything in a vacuum and if you get inspired by something, it's going to influence your work. What would it look like in practice anyway? Presumably it's two way. "Sorry, you can't be in my production of Rick The Dick, because Shakespeare was one of ours - but don't worry, there's a seperate but equal black theatre just down the road where you can do your people's plays."  I know we're essentially living in a poorly written dystopian SF novel anyway, but fuck that.
Context and specifics are everything. As usual, contrapoints engages the difficult questions without doing shallow hot takes. I’m a pale musician  raised in a majority brown city, trained and mentored by all kinds of musicians. Respect and self-awareness don’t satisfy every one when it comes to genre mixing and cultural crossovers, but they have always been enough for the actual creators, with few exceptions.
Shut the fuck up. Just do what you want to do and try not to kill anyone. For the love of god who gives a shit
her voice has changed so much in 2 years
Who profits? China. or some other cheap labor country. For costumes. But not on YouTube. Now you're profiting off from other people's disenfranchisement. Unless they cater to anglophones YouTube sucks as a means of employment. And even then it mostly sucks.
when u actually know the elder futhark
As an Irishman from actual Ireland who's culture was, for centuries, oppressed and attacked by those from the slightly bigger island on the right, I look at Americans every St. Patrick's day with their silly Leprechaun costumes and their green hair and green rivers and the only emotion I feel is pity.
I have nothing to contribute to the actual conversation but I just wanna say I would so smash the girl at 3:43. That look is hawt.
Ive always thought that this all rage over cultural apropriation was actually a bait orchestrated by alt right-wingers in order to support racial purity and segregation. Well, the SJW would be taken in regardless and that's always pissed me off.
You rock it
White Dreads are gross. Black people can wash their dreads, and do. I see countless news stories and articles where they cut open dreads or do swatches and find mold. I don't have a racial problem with white dreads, I have a sanitation problem with white dreads.
You singing 'La Barca de Oro' 👏👏👏
I'm pretty leftist and partially Native American myself. So, it's not like I don't have some dogs in this fight.  But I have little patience for this "Cultural Appropriation" pap.  I'm sick of all the offense and the constant stream of accusations and virtue signaling (yes, a right wing term I will gladly appropriate).  Jazz could be said to be an appropriation of European instruments and music theory by ethnically blended populations. Good, then. Jazz was the best thing ever made in the United States. And thank Goodness African diasporic people put these things to good use. Look at what they made of it.   And Hip-hop is an appropriation of Musique Concrete. The thing that makes it genius is that the tools to make it were scraped together out of spare parts and determination. Before, sample based music was the sole provenance of the wealthy and highly educated. It took entire laboratories to do for high art what a handful of destitute, opressed, and creative youths did for fun. So what if they didn't come up with the samples or all of the technology by themselves out of their own culture? They made more out of less and sold their creation better than the Academic technicians did their art. Nicely done, I say.   In that vein, Laurie Anderson was sampling at about the time Hip-Hop happened in the Bronx. The only difference is she used gadgets that cost as much as comfortable homes (like the Synclavier) to do it when Cool Herc and Grand Master Flash and all those people worked things out with spare parts and rubbish. But so many of her songs sound like Hip-Hop in more than a superficial way. And I don't think she or the original Hip-Hoppers stole anything from anyone else. That was just the time for that sound and that technology to be used that way. They just had fewer resources to do it with and succeded despite that.  But if we transported the current activist population back in time, the accusations and outrage would almost certainly erupt. The legal problem faced by copyrighted samples would have been made worse by cultural appropriation accusations -- most probably directed at Laurie. And she would not have deserved it.  You make mostly the same point, but I don't think you take it far enough. The kind of false respect reflected in this nonsensical "cultural appropriation" conversation is utter murder to creativity and honesty. It's joyless and mean spirited, disingenuous, and self-refuting to the point of self parody. And it is not actually respectful to anyone or to any tradition. This kind of noise I am more accustomed of hearing from flat Earthers and right wing extremists.  The Redskin example is something else and you're surely right about that. It is disgusting. But as someone aware of Irish history, I think the Boston Celtics are equally disgustingly named. Also the Notre Dame mascot. People forget that the Irish were outright slaves and the victim of their own genocidal opression. I'm glad the situation has improved, but I also think it is dangerous to forget these parts of history. The Irish fought because they had to to live. Just like African slaves and Native Americans. The one difference is the Irish were paler and could eventually blend in. I think these kinds of mascots can remind us of this but don't. They can be used as "teachable moments," but that isn't their intent. They aren't even appropriation or carricature. They're like confederate statues. What do we call those? Intentional gloating? Cherished outrageous mistakes? Sociocultural anachronistic grotesques?  That having been conceded, I would rather have a world with jazz and racially derogatory mascots that at least remind Americans of the genocide our culture is built on.  Better that than a world where degenerate music with African rhythms and "Spanish Tinge" could not go forth from the brothel it was invented in to change the musical history of the entire planet as testament to African diasporic genius. Along with Hip-Hop. And Laurie Anderson's avant garde work.
I was relieved to hear you say 'they may have just been too polite to tell me".  Few cases aside that I'm glad to have seen in the video, I wouldn't expect POC to have the energy to directly say to me 'hey, would you at least mind crediting black and brown culture with this look, that, for you, really 'gets you in touch with your spirituality', or whatever ?" We should really just know better than to take from what we do not associate with white culture.  If some POC take issue with white folk using a hairstyle with which black culture is associated, why is that not enough to reconsider it?  Those who may not have the energy to approach you about it (and what could lead to aggression from fragile white people like us) don't speak for all poc, but just because some black folk like your hair, it doesn't mean that the former should be dismissed, especially since, you know, 400 years of chattel slavery and institutional racism, haven't we been entitled to enough?   Like cornrows, we know that it is glorified by the bourgeoisie when Gwen Stefani, Kendall Jenner, etc.  display them, but, again, is often denounced as 'unprofessional' by white people in 'professional' atmospheres, and the glorification of such is really where the historically-dangerous disparity comes in, as a result, as it has with music (Elvis using Big Mama Thornton's 'Hound Dog') when credit isn't given. J. Cole also mentioned it when he saw that all the jazz musicians on iTunes were white.  I would be curious to see if and how your views have changed since making this video.  Otherwise, you are really brilliant, and I respect you greatly.
I’m so fucking offended that you wore day of the dead makeup so blandly. If you’re gonna do it, do it justice you lazy f*ck.  Lol jk, i was dying the whole time bc it was hilarious and you know how to articulate thoughts soooo clearly. I’m in awe.
At 4:59 it’s Georgian music not  Hindu 🇬🇪
no we shouldn't "be able to agree that shits racist"... because it's not, it's just people dressing up and having a good time. You're such an unironically-divisive piece of shit. And congrats on admitting to holding standards that don't apply to everyone, and involve this dumb path of determining whether people fit into certain categories based on what people did hundreds of years ago... really owned the anti-sjws by quoting a valid response, and then responding by confirming the criticisms that ur a hypocrite and justifying it by strawmanining into extremes as if them pointing out ur hypocricy is only valid if white people are super oppressed, even though u brought up the irish (they actually pass ur oppressed olympics of history test.)
0:01 the star of The Hate U Give
My issue comes in when the appropriated culture is indifferent or enthusiastic about cultural exchange. A notable example are Japanese who are genuinely thrilled to see white people in kimonos. Though the objectification of geisha’s may be another matter, but they definitely seem to want to teach others about their culture. Appropriation is a way of doing so.   Make no mistake, I’m not saying cultural appropriation is therefor legitimate. I really do wonder about this facticity.
I'm late to the party but HOW DARE YOU USE GEORGIAN POLYPHONIC SINGING IN THE CONTEXT OF INDIAN SPIRITUALISM. (Jk.) (i'm glad you pinpointed how the issue is far more complex than it is often made out to be)
"Don't you even know your hairstyle originates with Hindu mystics, you white BITCH." Is now one of my favorite lines from your videos.
All I'm going to say is 2 minutes and 17 seconds into this video we already getting the dismissal of hypocrisy hypocrisy is hypocrisy regardless of the situation is the nature of hypocrisy can I just say how great of a word hypocrisy is it's really fun to say hypocrisy
You are more reasonable than most leftists. I still think that what you say at 1:35 is pretty dumb. So "cultural appropriation" is only racist when it "hurts" groups that were oppressed in the past? Well, Irish and Italian Americans were pretty oppressed in the past, but you don't care about people "appropriate" their culture. This SJW mindset that racism is only possible against "oppressed" groups is stupid af
People can wear, and act however they like as long as that does not affect someone elses ability to do so, you people are not for liberty. This is far from "liberal"
I think you nailed it on the dreads argument, something I’ve been struggling to articulate my position on for years. I think it’s gotten to such a point now where the whole conversation has soured the appeal, and whether I think it’s morally right or not, I’m not gonna get dreads as a white person because I worry it would be seen as some kind of personal middle finger to black people.   But I think that’s something that’s problematic about how we analyze symbols over here on the left. As humans we like to know where our enemies are, we want the teams to be clearly demarcated with different color jerseys so we know who to hate, and so we take personal appearance choices and come up with narratives about that person’s internal intentions to try and retrofit that pet peeve into some kind of instantly visible moral failing. The truth is, moral failings are rarely instantly visible, and I like to think ours is the team that examines the nuances of things and people before assigning them enemy status based on aesthetics - that particular habit seems more right than left.
My Hindu friend prefers folks don't do yoga without some understanding of its religious nature, which makes perfect sense.
it all in your head
I found your videos through a classmate of mine who wrote an encomium on Love (during Plato's Symposium) and they chose to use you as the person to write the speech through. I really enjoy your take on things because they are a lot more thoughtful and thoughtprovoking than the standard SJW perspective (which I don't want to hate but... people are getting a little bit out of hand these days). There's no complexity anymore in the SJW discourse, especially in colleges.
I think the whole idea of cultural appropriation is stupid, EXCEPT in the case of something like the "Washington Redskins". I also understand the concept and I do see it as alo being problematic when one group in society can take something that another group has created and capitalize on it because only they have the power to do so. That sucks. However on the other hand there is no real way to enforce/prohibit something like this, when there is inequality in the system, like there was with many of the blues songs. Also, keep in mind, in many cases, by trying to punish appropriators you are also punishing some true admirers. I just think the whole appropriation idea goes too far. Celts, Scandinavian and Germanic tribes braided their hair too.  Even characterizations should be ok when it is a costume party. I am sure there is a limit here too, but I am not sure where it is. Certainly anyone who wears blackface to a party or comes as Adolf Hitler has crossed that line, but still if people do that, it does not give anyone the right to beat them up. That is their stupid-assed, dumbshit opinion and it should speak for itself against the character of those people.   In general, I think that people should be allowed to wear damned near anything they want. That is freedom. Companies should not be able to prohibit the wearing of Mohawks or Braids for the same reasons. If what someone wears is racist, it reflects on their dumbass. Period. These people should be stared and for all I care hollered at by everyone so that they know just how big of a dumbass they are being. Telling them that you think they are racists and that they suck, because of what they are wearing should also be allowed. But this is where it should stop too. If you go and get in their face about it (i.e. impede their movement, grab them, spit on them, punch them etc.) because you think it is racist and they shouldn't be allowed to wear it, well that is assault and is punishable by law.   As far as stealing intellectual property songs, art, poetry, writing, etc. goes. If you do not copyright it, it is fair game. If someone steals stuff that you made, but that you didn't  bother to copyright without even giving you a byline, an honorable mention or at least acknowledging that they stole it, well that again reflects on their bad character. People should call them out on it. Don't buy their stuff, write them a letter telling them, how they should be ashamed etc., but it is no excuse for violence against them.   If you want to protect something you make, then copyright it. If you don't then that is your tough luck if people steal it.  Hell, if music is were subject to these rules nearly every damned song out there today would have to be pulled off the charts, because nearly everything was copied from somewhere, by someone at sometime. I bet there is not an original, non-culturally appropriated thought in the universe.   I guess, I see wearing dreads or braids, cultural symbols and clothing or even playing ethnic or cultural music  a bit differently. I see this as emulation and emulation is a form of admiration.   If I was black and saw a white man or woman with dreads or braids. I would feel like at least some of them admired some aspect of my culture. To make all that wrong and call it cultural appropriation just shows me how insipid racism is that it has poisoned and embittered people to that extent.   We all have a long-long way to go yet.
How come we only complain about white people doing it tho? Or is no one free from the criticism?
Stop teaching offense taking.
What's in the jars
Hey Contra, I am new to your channel and I binge watched a few of your videos, while I do agree with you on some points you've made, I don't agree with all of them. I just wanted to say that I think you're awesome. You point out arguments that are actually valid and hold reason and ground and you present them in a very whimsical way. Glad I found this channel.
So I only just discovered this video and one of my friends wants to get dreadlocks... He's white and into the green stuff. He's kinda a hippie I guess (without the environmental concerns) , into travel and living in a van converted into a camper. He's already got some rather baggy clothes. But the thing is I don't want him to smell more than he already does and I feel like he won't look after his locks... Question still remains, is it appropriate for white people to have dreadlocks? It seems like there is a subculture for it, that at this point, it's almost normal..
I recognize that ocean .mp4. You use it often.
Make a video about how rad-fems think trans-women are culturally appropriating women’s culture
How dare black people wear pants and use western medicine! APPROPRIATION!
We whites created human civilization. So we can do whatever the hell we want with it.
Cultural appropriation is a neutral, but shit, term. It doesn't matter how respectful Disney is in its movies like Lilo & Stitch, Coco, or Moana. It will always be appropriation, which is why the term is inherently neutral.   It's shit because it's a shit idea. How are we supposed to have global trade, learn about each others' cultures, and make NEW culture if we just cry whenever someone names a snake monster in their game a "naga"? We can't. If you all want to go bitch about cultural appropriation then stop using American products & stop eating popcorn & chocolate (Mexican inventions).  I love seeing others take part in my culture, I like it, makes me feel nice & fuzzy inside. It's like a compliment, honestly.
Is it bad that I got excited about Indigenous folks taking back their lands and reinstating their laws and sovereignty
Dreadlocks is an interesting one. As you correctly point out, Indian, Egyptian and Caribbean cultures have them as part of theirs. The Ancient Picts in Scotland were also known to have had matted hair similar to dreadlocks.
this video is very fried........
what's the song at 5:18?
It's like cultural sex. Two cultures meet, share a special hug and have babies.
Dude you’re hilarious
The problem is that some Neo Ned Flanders (that surprisingly they are now leftists) groups have tried to sell to everyone else the idea that appropriation (or anything else done by white people) can be something offensive. If you feel offended for something like someone (in power) is making, say, porn wearing a costume of an ethnic group of your country, I'm sorry but you are really stupid. I'm a Mexican, and when I see, for instance, a gringo cosplaying a charro or something, I think the only moron is he/she; nothing happens to me, nothing happens to "my" culture (which of course is not really mine). So, it's totally ok, of course, as he/she has every right to make a clown of him/herself, I have every right to laugh at him/she. That's the beauty of real freedom of speech.
First time viewing your material. Thoroughly enjoyed it!
I always  take into consideration simulation theory like the movie "The Matrix" with the natural world mask wearing like in "Avatar" but both in the matrix of the Earth reality. If I am not of this time anymore, and I am a resurrected or cloned or mass farmed whatever that remains now probably could recreate me and an entire perception of a planet. Wearing the appearance of things I am accustomed to from being alive, but when they act and behave only as the stereotype, it makes me wonder if inside they are something else willing to roleplay as another but badly without responsibility on the ramifcations of the reputations of others who also share that outward avatar, since it seems with such little lived in life experience that all they know is the stereotypes of that identity shell they currently appear as. Either that or they are actively roleplaying to sabotage the others, but those types are tragically dissmissing that what resists persists, so if they didnt make things right in their heads and opinions with another, for them, it will never be alright, even if the other is just a projection of what they feel they deserve after all masks are torn away.
how about the children apropreateing theyre parents culture i mean this is how culture evolves doesn't it
So, Led Zeppelin.  Here we go.  First Album: Babe I'm Gonna Leave You: Cover accidentally called traditional, original writer was white, later corrected. You Shook Me: Cover correctly attributed Dazed and Confused: Stolen from a white guy, sued and lost. Black Mountain Side: English traditional song credited to Page, arrangement ripped off from a white guy. I Can't Quit You Baby: Cover correctly attributed How Many More Times: A bit complicated, song is often said to be a rework of "How Many More Years" by Howlin Wolf, but this isn't the case.  The two are completely different.  Some lyrics and melodies from Albert King's the Hunter do show up towards the end.  One could argue that these couple lines are merely a reference, but they still should have credited him.  So, on their first album there is one example of not adequately crediting a black musician.  Second Album: Whole Lotta Love: They stole lyrics from Dixon and they got caught, pretty shameful. The Lemon Song: Bunch of lyrics from various blues sources and, to my ear, a couple similar musical phrases too.  Same thing with How Many More Times, only a few bits and pieces taken but should still have given credit. Moby Dick: Riff inspired by another song, not an actionable lift but they are similar.  I Feel Fine by the Beatles was similarly inspired by the same song. Bring it On Home: First 1:40 and the last like 20 seconds are a direct, uncredited cover of a Willie Dixon song.  There's also an entirely original song in the middle.  This was originally only credited to the band, now it is only credited to Dixon, original middle part included.  2 egregious examples here and one collage thing that should have been credited.  Gallows Pole was credited as traditional.  Levee Breaks has entirely original music, and the original lyricist was credited.  Boogie With Stu actually gave writing credit to Ritchie Valens' mother rather than Ritchie himself because they heard she never saw a cent of his royalties.  That's actually a cool thing to do, I think.  Anyways, my actual point.  There are instances of Led Zeppelin not giving credit where they should for songs, but there is no instance of them straight-up covering a song by a black musician and claiming it as their own.  Even Bring it On Home, where they did cover a black blues musician and not credit him, has a full original song between the covered intro and outro.  So, did they steal some lyrics and melodies from black musicians?  Yes.  That's unacceptable, but the actual crimes get blown way out of proportion.  Don't get me started on Stairway.
This had me cracking up. I've seen that dreadlock video before and it made me wonder where the line is drawn. I don't see a difference between a white hippy wearing dreads and Beyoncé wearing 10 feet of straight blonde hair, but I guess there is one?
Just don't bother people about their own hair if you're a stranger. It's not okay. But at the same time, white people, next time you get indignant when someone DOES  give you shit for your dreads, just remember that that's a taste of what it's like to not have your white privilege. Maybe that's the cultural significance.
I feel attacked (Chattanooga native)
I know you hate it, but i love it. Autograph my prostate you bad bitch!
Tbh I don’t care about culture at all fuck em all
WOAH WOAH WHAT WAS THAT PART AND WHAT DID IT HAVE TO DO WITH ANYTHING!!?
I don't like the concept that culture, a bullshit human construct that most people don't even choose, is inherently worthy of respect.
My rule of thumb is this: if you have your own ideas and styles, follow that. If you don’t? No worries, follow your own culture because it was evolved to handle most social situations. Whatever you do, never believe a corporation on how you should act or dress because they are all cultureless pig-dogs voracious for your wallets. And if you truly honestly really authentically do appreciate the foreign culture, try living in that place for a while to actually know what the culture is like and to have it actually have a chance to truly effect you. A little tricky if your hungry for a certain country’s fashion but it’s the surest way not to misrepresent it. I’ve lived in China for a fifth of my life and it’s impacted me greatly, my wife is Chinese so it’s ok if I occasionally wear a hanfu with American style incorporated into it, I think this way I’ve eliminated pretense
It's really fucking weird watching these old videos lol.
I think I found the most politically middle person of all time.
Love that you're an athiest ❤❤
Porch monks are bald Mandarin assholes.
I don't give a flying fuck if people imitate my culture, therefore I feel like it is not wrong for me to imitate someone elses
I hit like when the Tower Records bit came on
Now I want to drop acid and go go to Rhapsody.
I imagine the Vikings did wear dreadlocks.
Those dreadlocks are just ugly. I'm not even mad, it's ugly.
Hahaha your mysterious boxes had me dying
So don't plagiarise? I agree.  Caricatures are bad I agree. Bit confused about the fighting Irish bit though...weren't Irish people suppppper prejudiced against in the US following the mass emigration after the blight? Isn't the "fighting" aspect of that in fact based on the prejudicial/stereotypical representation of Irish people as being violent that was prevalent in the US? Are you saying because they are less prejudiced against now it's okay that a negative stereotype is perpetuated/something stemming from a time of prejudice is fine? Xenophobia doesn't just apply to skin colour...Doesn't make much sense to me.
I'm not a cyberpunk affiliate but I do wear fake dreads because I miss my long hair but at the same time don't really want to commit having long hair again, hence synthetic dreads I braid into my hair. NOT ONE black person EVER walked up to me saying negative things quite the contrary, black dudes always give a thumbs up and black women don't believe that a little white girl did it all by herself so I get props for that too. It was the constantly offended at nothing white middle age women who had comments. Btw, I live in Sweden. Enough said.
i know this is an old ass video but the fact that you thought you actually had fresh thoughts to contribute on this issue is frankly... hilariously egotistical
I'm sure someone else has hit on this, but sports teams are named after fierce animals and historic warrior peoples. Even the Blue Jays were named the Blue Jays because Blue Jays are just tiny little *****. Not a friendly bird. My point? The Redskins is not a racial slur. It was a name for warriors. Naming a sports team after warriors is essentially a compliment. Raiders, Vikings, Marauders, etc.   The U.S. also almost always names their attack helicopters after natives. Why? Because they were fierce in a battle. Their very name still suggests strength.   Society at one point had no such notion as racism. No one believed anything was racist. (In a punishable kind of way, they knew they were making fun of a race) Now we're pushing that everything is racist. You can convince yourself and others of either of these with the exact same situation. It just depends how you set up the argument.   Some things are legitimately racist, most of the things we worry about are not.
Continue draggin Wagner. Thanks
how come she plays instruments, speaks languages (or at least is very good at mimicking other languages' accents), knows a bunch of philosophy shit and is funny? not fair
You have, at times, a very Frank DeCaro "Out at the Movies" type of phrasing.  Wonderful! Great insight, too. Thank you.  But...Panda Express, that flashed for a brief moment at 8:40-ish, I would not count as "appropriation." It was founded by a Taiwanese guy in California capitalizing on American understanding of Chinese cuisine. As a white guy living in Taiwan can attest, Americans have no idea what Chinese food really is. Goose tongue, anyone?
The only hair based thing I ever get pissed about is when people call my braids dreads but it’s the same as a person with straight hair getting pisses about calling a French pleat a pony tail. Braiding hair takes time and effort and sometimes you want that effort acknowledged. I know I’m being pedantic about it and I’d never call it racism because I’ve experienced genuine serious racism and petty stuff isn’t worth my time.
i imagine you a black mexican and then you d make the ideal president to piss the right off. the logical counterweight to what donald trump will have been.
Honestly there is nothing wrong with cultural appropriation. What is wrong is appropriating it to sell stuff or for insults. Im Mexican, but when I see characters in Panchos and Sombreros (Like Super Mario Odyssey or Metal Gear Revengence) I cheer because I feel represented. If someone wears a mexican cowboy costume because they think "its cool", I feel proud of my culture. But to see it lazily tact on to a commercial to sell me stuff (and its not entertaining) then thats where the eyes should start to squint.
I think that we should use expropriation in discussions like this as well to distinguish between sharing between cultures which is always happen which is why you can't pin down a single culture and say it's separate from another and taking from another culture in a way that offends people within that culture.
I love your content. Good quality. Good humour. Go on.
Ok, but the USA is not ruled by the Irish or the Vikings either. Arguably, the history of Irish servitude (yes, it was nowhere near as bad as slavery, as some right-wing figures claim, but it was still a thing tha happened) gives the Irish just as much of a case to complain about stereotypes. Do stereotypes against Irish people not matter, simply because they're white and America is mostly run by white people (who aren't even Irish, but apparently that doesn't matter)? It seems to me an awful lot like you're just being a hypocrite.  Though this is mostly good. Mocking a culture vs taking ideas from a culture is an important distinction. I don't really care about appropriation at all - it's the natural evolution of culture, but taking credit for someone else's idea is a dick move, whether they're part of the same culture as you or not.
Yes it is wrong for African Americans to use racial accents to be "cool" or "ethnic".  *POINT IS DON'T USE SOMEONES CULTURE FOR CLOUT*  THAT'S LITERALLY IT!!
Thank you.
It offended my little white college girl sensitivities that you used Georgian folk music together with Hindu imagery giving people the false idea that it has anything to do with said religion.
wasn't there that one time when a japanese organisation did a kimono try on at a museum, because the japanese kimono industry is slowly dying? and then asian-americans came and protested in front of the museum. so the japanese people involved had to cancel the try on, because they didn't want to offend anyone.  like... can't we focus on the people that actually spread harmful stereotypes and make fun of cultures? instead of those who want the exact opposite?
hmm i usually agree with your videos but mascots and and people who wear other fun versions of other cultural clothes is not racist. Racism is when you hate someone or think they are less because of a body feature or where they are from.
Haile Selaisse was a tyrant who helped starve his people and was little better than the communist junta that followed him. My mom briefly went to jail after a protest against him. Fuck his "teachings."
I'm an Indian, from a Hindu family and I didn't even know that dreadlocks were linked to Hindu mysticism.
Led Zeppelin have not been accused of cultural appropriation; they or members of the group have been accused of theft of intellectual property. Because of this, cases have been brought in the courts. The success of these cases has been limited not by the law but by the imbalance in the resources employed by each side.   This means that the objection made on the grounds of cultural appropriation and the blues is that no white person should play the blues even if due accreditation is made. I doubt that the same people would be consistent if there was any objection made to a black person singing opera or dancing classical ballet. The Lefties should consider the attitude of the communist government in Cuba: that all of  Cuba's cultural heritage is open to all Cubans regardless of their race.   If African-Americans had been limited to only traditional African instruments on the grounds of objecting to cultural appropriation, we would not have had jazz or even the blues in the form we know it. And in consequence no rock and roll or rock music. The musical loss would be enormous.   We have moved on from music being taken and given to white performers because music producers think that white people will not listen to black musicians. Rap shows that audiences today demand authenticity. We should encourage creative musicians of whatever race to build on our musical heritage and focus on ensuring that the talent in writing and performing is properly rewarded.
I've mostly considered "problematic" cultural appropriation to be done out of ignorance or apathy.  An example of the ignorance type is using dreamcatchers as "bad dream catchers" (not the original intent, at least not that I know of) or simple home decor. They were originally created as good luck charms, and looked more like spiderwebs than most mandala-looking catchers. It's kinda like when kids learn a new word without actually knowing what it means, then blurt it out; my little cousin did this with the word "porn" and he got in loads of trouble at school, but he didn't know what it meant in the first place, otherwise I'm pretty sure he wouldn't have said it. Stuff like that is just honest mistakes, and I imagine the usual response to being told of an object's true meaning would result in the person apologizing for misuse, followed by corrected or stopped usage.   Apathetic cultural appropriation is when someone knows that they're misusing a cultural artifact, but don't care that they're spreading misinformation and using the object or symbol incorrectly. "Fun" examples of this are demonizing deities (making Satan look like Pan for instance, which was 100% intentional) and using familiar cultural words (words people of a culture use to refer to themselves or other people of the culture, but isn't as friendly when a stranger to the culture uses them; n***a and Jew are two words like this) without being part of the culture.  Stereotypical costumes seem to be a weird blend of the two. A Pocahontas costume with eagle feathers (weird example, just work with me here) might be worn by someone who isn't aware of the importance of eagle feathers in Native American culture, but could also be worn by someone who is aware of their importance, but doesn't give two shits because "it looks cool" or "fuck those SJWs"  If you find an aspect of a culture like a certain festival, custom, object, or symbol to be both cool and relevant to you, and you use it for the same purpose it was originally created for, I don't really see too much of an issue with that. That includes dreads, for me. Then again, I think dreads tend to look messy and unkempt on most white people that have them, maybe due to them not having the same type of hair or not knowing how to care for them. Black dreads are to white dreads as Monet is to a finger-painting kindergartener, basically.
white people cant have dreads, and i mean this in the literal sense. dreadlocks are formed by having tightly curled hair types like 4a, 4b, or 4c (perhaps 3a, b, and c as well, im not sure at Exactly what point dreads naturally form) and twisting them into a neat lock pattern, and white people dont tend to have those types of hair. instead, white ""dreads"" are made by damaging the hair or even gluing it, and are not actual dreads. theyre mats. other differences include that dreads are healthy and can be washed, but mats can not be washed without risking mold growth, and that you can remove dreads by untangling them and still be able to keep the hair, but mats will have to be shaved off.  so, since calling matted hair 'dreads' shows a fundamental ignorance in what dreadlocks even are, id say it falls into the category of appropriation and mockery
where are my fellow *SEÑORITAS PICANTES* ?!?!
'White" and 'Black' are used to label 'cultures" only in the USA. There are no such things outside of that sad little debate..
Wearing glasses is a shameful appropriation of second half of the 13th century Northern Italians! Boo! You don't understand the deeper cultural significance that 13th century Northern Italians put in them. I am properly digusted.
hot take: i dont give a shit if white people wear dreads, and any other black person you actually meet irl doesn't either
Okay I'll give you that one about Zeppelin they're very much the Thomas Edison of the music industry as in the only thing they've ever created was a way to steal credit for other people's work
Okay the Egyptians didn't actually have dreadlocks they wore a garment on their head made of lambswool that resembled dreadlocks or what we would see a strength ox but it has been demonstrated that they shaved their heads completely bald the lowest member of their society to the highest member of their society was hairless they shaved themselves
Okay you should really look up what happened to the original Viking culture at the people who are utterly completely wiped out by Christianity oh wait that doesn't count does it
So wait a minute as a white person who is part Mexican who lived in Mexico and lived on a Native American reservation here in the states I'm not allowed to go to a party dressed as anything like that because of the pigment of my skin because of my lack of melatonin that sounds a little racist to me I must be imagining it
Just got to say this I have to say it cultural appropriation doesn't exist in the context in which most people would put it in i e a negative however cultural cooperation and a common Heritage of Humanity leeds one to see that we borrow from each other on a subconscious level we even mimic each other we do this naturally let's be honest electricity indoor plumbing internal combustion vehicles which culture created in which culture borrowed no false dichotomy there was no creation and no borrowing it was the invention of a human for Humanity
But is it okay to wear these Halloween costumes if I claim that I'm dressed up as a cliché?
Some dudes said in a vid that if it's taking recognised and credited influence from other cultures is not wrong, taking credit for what other cultures do is or mocking it is so I like to stick to that because it's complicated. We aproapriate aaaaaaall the time without knowing.
3:50
meeh!
When your a white person, that lives in a mainly East Indian City (Surrey) I even got bullied in grade school in another language from my own in good ole Canada. Hence, there are differences in cultures and it’s nice to be surrounded by your own. East Indians in Surrey don’t feel bad that they mainly speak Punjabi (half the ppl over 40 don’t know English). I literally can’t communicate with anyone else besides my bf in my household. Because there’s no white people to date LOL. I wear scarfs around my head to protect me from the sun and Chinese fans. Nobody complains about cultural appropriation of Asian culture where they are the majority. In fact I get compliments in suites ALL the time. The point is that enjoy what you have. If you are the majority enjoy THAT because there is comfort and familiarity. If the majority of the community tends to be yours in that area it also means that your higher on the social ladder because really most whites in Surrey rent and Indians own the houses. (Obviously outside Surrey, delta, white rock is different. Etc.) If you aren’t the majority integrate, find new spices, words, clothing, and enjoy it. Because non-whites don’t give an f about this stuff unless they are the “minority” and I experience being the minority and it doesn’t mean you are a victim and things are harder. It means that you experience something unfamiliar. That simple.
No such thing
Everyone cultural appropriates. Human beings have too much thoughts that it makes them insane.
What is the context of that clip at 7:55?
This whole cultural appropriation bullshit is promoted to divide people and you should feel bad for contributing to that.  There are far greater problems in the world than a minority of people who are looking to get offended at everything.
You are my fav sjw
In whole Video I didnt find one argument against Cultural appropriation  First part like you said was against inappropriate Caricature  and Led Zeppelin's problem was of plagiarism. Guy fucking stole from everyone.
nice forearms dude
5:00 let me tell you what is caricature and not cultural appropriation. Putting Georgian folk song on Hindu god. Not every Language you cant understand is same.
Omg that song you're singing in the beginning is from *Santa Sangre!!!* ❤❤❤
That intro, was so SOOOOOO ..... Hermoso , precioso, Magnifico
White people didnt whipe out the Indians though, germs did.
GIVE my hair 3 days I get dreads -  and historically MY CULTURE HAD THEM  Germanic Barbarians HAD THEM  this was a Warrior hair style it was "KNOTTED"  Oh yeah and as those ARE VIKINGS some DID have dreads  BUT there were also some other races MIXED into the vikings  and eventually Pirates that they became... sooooooooooooo Also a THING then.   I was 11 year old GOTH girl who wore Medieval Garb to school and was Gay  ANd my Family lived in New Orleans --- My hair was THE LAST thing people commented on.   and No one questoned My VooDoo qualifications...  being a tiny CRAZY vegan completely OVERSHADOWED that
But I like my bagels
>Tfw my Norwegian culture gets aporopriated by hollywood and the gaming industry....
So black women should stop straightening their hair? Bad Michelle Obama, you're stealing my white hair.
The blues owes a lot of it early influence to Country and Western music, cause "Melting Pot" bitches.
You are abosutey not what i expected. I might lean a bit more to the left than i thought
This is the best video of you I've seen .
Even tho white people with dreds still makes me vaugely uncomfortable I'm glad to see someone put the thing I think into words. But like.... If white people are gonna wear dreadlocks..... Cause y'all..... Do better? Can y'all... Make the dreadlocks like... Better dreadlocks? Most of my discomfort with it is simply that they aren't done well. Like.... It might be hard to find a black hairstylist willing to do them... But maybe use that white privilege money and fuckin offer to pay hella extra and also approach respectfully and I'm sure some stylist somewhere is gonna cave even if only to pay their bills... Like... Wear them do you. But help still needs to be sought.
Cultural appropriation isn’t real... it’s literally just being racist.
As an European, I don't know if you Americans realize that this seems to be a problem only in your country. We have racism in France, sure, as well as anti-racist and sjws, but people very seldom criticize someone for eating sushis or wearing a nice Asian-type dress. You guys sure have it difficult
A great and brilliant presentation as always but I must add a little correction.  The bulk of Rastafari, I am one BTW, are of African descent, the ancient Egyptians were Africans, their roots being Nubia and Kush(Sudan, Somalia, Ethiopia), and the ancient Hindus have close ties to Kush, so I have to disagree with your statement that these are unrelated , distinct ethnic groups. They are ethnically and culturally very related.
I wish Contra was my undergraduate philosophy professor. But especially if she came to class dressed as she is in this video.
I mean like Latin American culture kinda comes from the Spanish doing crazy shit here but like you legit have every skin color from black to white being like "yeah I'm Latino" and like it's in my opinion the best kind of culture because it encompasses legit everyone. Also on a different note metal is fucking cool and cares not about race, it's a culture based upon DDFEEEEAAATTTHHHH. love the videos btw
woah it's a little bit wild to see my high school's mascot in a video lol
3:29 but,,, Vikings did have like pseudo dreads didn't they? I mean I'm basically purebred Norwegian and I naturally have locks. If I don't condition my hair for a few days my hair either starts feeling like sheep's wool or naturally form thin tight locks sorta similar to dreadlocks, just less pretty.
Actually I identify as an avatar of Vishnu
It feels so weird to hear your old voice as opposed to your new voice.
On musical appropriation I recommend the brilliant rock journalism of Charles Shaar Murray. Especially Crosstown Traffic, his Hendrix biography in which he excoriates Led Zeppelin.
You have me curious: is sugar skull makeup cultural appropriation. I hope not because I love that shit, the colors and the expression of oneself you can do with it (as long as it's in a respectful way) is beautiful in my book. And I love doing it myself because I think it's pretty. I actually wanted to learn more about them, like I always New thy were part of day of the dead but I never New exactly what they were. Now I do and I love and appreciate them even more
Thank you! Thank you! Thank you! For sorting that out.
All of modern society is based on European science. How can you square that with non Europeans appropriating our culture? Also, tell all Chinese men to stop wearing western style suits. God that's just one example. Stop being a self hating white.
So vikings were never slaughtered by Christians, just as the Native Americans were?
As a Jamaican, that "wah gwaan, youtube" made me cringe. Its was funny though.
It'd be neat to see this revisited after a couple years. Maybe I should pitch to your patreon instead of making random requests.
Even though I don't agree with everything you say, I still love ur vids. BTW, a longtime friend of mine (straight white female) had dreads for more years than I can remember, and she worked (still does, but cut them off bc she got tired of them after 20+ yrs) for a major cable company, going to houses working on the poles, etc. She makes great money. Lol! Probably depends more on her awesome, outgoing, fun loving personality.
Would drag then be considered mockery of an oppressed group that is females? To clarify I don't have a problem with drag, and I do consider mockery of cultures in the form of for example "sexy geishas" as insensitive and ridiculous. But drag seems to kind of follow the pattern you just pointed out (exaggeration of female stereotypes for example)
Please tell me you went out in public with your La Catrina makeup. ¡Qué hermosa!
Dreads look really hard to maintain
Oh snap I love this video and your channel
Wow I never thought about that distinction between appropriation and mockery
I'm drunk and 15 watching this. Wish me luck.
Damn, this dude is funny.
I'm still in doubt as to your definition of "cultural appropriation". The most concrete example you gave was Led Zeppelin, but this sounded to me to be more an issue of claiming rights and profiting from content which was not intellectually his. (If the songs were from his "culture" would it not still have been just as wrong?). So if the issue with most Halloween costumes/brands is racial stereotyping, and with Zeppelin some form of intellectual theft (even if not technically a copyright issue) then what is cultural appropriation?
Keep up the good work! I am also a lapsed academic.  You often inspire me to keep the faith.
Simple answer. It's all in the intent. If you're "appropriating" another culture because you think that culture has some great food, or excellent clothing, or just your motives are pure, and are in now way meant to belittle or damage said culture. All's good.   I laugh how everyone says never wear an Native head dress. Yet I go to a rodeo set up by the Blackfoot almost every year. And every year they sell fake head dresses for everyone to wear. I told the guy selling him about this cultural appropriation. It took about 5 minutes before he even understood what I meant. Then he just had a big laugh, and said well screw them, I need to make a few bucks too. :)    I just wonder when this absurd I'm offended at everything crowd, which I think is 80% BS. Mostly just people who are unhappy, looking for another outlet to take out there anger on other ppl. And social media is perfect for that. Cause no one can really react to you in real time, and most of them are anonymous. But I hope eventually our culture swings back to sanity...
I lost it at "cuantos años tienes"
*_SEÑORITAS PICANTES_*
I always thought the first people who sported dreadlocks had them form naturally. So ... I don't think it's a race thing.
What's in the box? 😂 I love you even more now.
Tower Records still exists in Japan XD
I'm a (gay) white guy with dreadlocks and the only people to get upset about it are other white people. And just a couple, very loud and irritating, white people. I've also only ever gotten compliments about them from black people. In fact I even got them done at a Nigerian salon. Anyway thanks for the well-reasoned video.
I'm so relieved to find someone who's also on the left that I can finally support. So much of the left now is just black and white, never aknowledging nuances or even demonizing them as immoral. I don't agree on you with everything, but you make great points and are super funny. Thank you for taking a more moderate stance.
CUANTOS AÑOS TIENES
Are any of this troll's old videos as 'nikotine', available before he was cross dressing and inserting lots of clips in?  He makes some good points sometimes and i'd like to hear those kind of videos he has produced in the past. I checked even the old videos he has on this channel but it's all a cross dressing drama queen.
white people can *choose* to have dreads, tho, and they choose it by completely decimating their natural hair. for a lot of black people, it's a completely natural hairstyle that is vilified - they didn't do anything to their hair, so it's not comparable to that one time a bank wouldn't hire you because you got a weird tattoo. saying that white people are persecuted for dreads is kinda like saying white people are "persecuted" when they get shamed for saying racist things, and comparing that to a black person getting yelled at just for being black (which they didn't choose, unlike the racist).
While I generally agree, the whole "white people have their own hippie culture" isn't the best argent.  Hippie culture is basically just a massive appropriation and misunderstanding of Hindu and Native American cultures
So...being religious or spiritual is...bad?
one thing that would mostly annoy me about this debate is people would only be outraged if it was their culture, but make all kinds of excuses to explain why their appropriation of my culture is actually ok.
I am asain i think this shit is bullshit
Ok dreadlock thing never make sene to me   Is korn rasict
Cultural diffusion
GENDER TRAITOR! GENDER APPROPRIATOR!  -joke-
This one is drivel. 90% of Native Americans are not offended by the Redskins. Cultural appropriation is not a form racism https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7TuUYAEKo9U
i discovered your channel very recently, and am glad i did. you seem to have work your own opinion, trying to figure out how every variable fits in the subject you are talking about. plus, i love the aesthetics of your videos. sorry about my poor english, i am french^^
I agree. Well done.
I've read articles written by indian americans about how they went to a yoga studio that displayed indian characters upside down etc.... an of course you could pay an actual yogi to do this and not some white hippy. You could also be a white person with a "sexy stretching and also my heart tho" class. There is a family I see around that is a white woman with dreads, and a black man with dreads, and their child. Who am I to tell her how to feel about this. I do think sometimes white people identify with black people and are dreading their hair in solidarity. Your point that white ppl having to be employed despite dreads is interesting. I just feel like this is all a shallow attempt at defending your own dreads. I've read articles about how I can't use the term "fuccboi" because black women invented it and I believe that but I think it's become a feminist tool to have more language than "rapist" vs "boys will be boys" when it comes to abuse. Sure this is nuanced but unless I have a REALLY good reason to disagree with a disenfranchised party I will just assume I don't know what the fuck I am talking about and leave it alone. Pay people from india to teach yoga. Also Lena dunham was a reference? who the fuck thinks she's a SJW and not just an asshole? Was this filmed before the interview where she overtly sexualized a black man for not wanting to have sex with her?
Def. As someone from a former slave colony I feel like a lot of American notions of appropriation and racial equality are exclusive to Americans as well.
Can you do a video about indigenous north american's and how they got the lazy drunk stereotypes from colonization like you mentioned in this video? I'm in an indigenous studies online class right now and it's embarrassing the stuff we aren't taught (I live in Canada, but same difference). Your video are so good I feel like you would do it justice. I don't know american history at all, but I know Canada has residential schools and the pass program which promoted segregation and those are things we were never taught in school. We only ever learn some european version of first contact and flash forward to today where indigenous people live on reserves... it's like they're skipping the explanation why reserves and indian status cards and whatnot exist. Anyway, I knnow this video is 2 years old but hopefully you see this comment eventually.
I believe all people can dread their hair just because dreading is a natural state for hair even the matting if you don't brush your hair for years it will eventually become one big dread or multiple Matts...
The dreads thing was always dumb because dreads are almost universal in human history. Nearly every pre-Christian non imperial culture had some sort of dreadlocks style going on. And it gets more universal the further back you go if you just apply the logic that people were greasy and unbathed 90% of the time. Easy style of hair to do with greasy ass hair.
I really hate all this cultural appropriation bullshit because it makes me question wether or not I should take interest in other cultures. As somebody who likes African music, Chess, anthropology, foreign cuisine and studies Jazz and Blues music, I feel that if I started worrying about cultural appropriation I wouldn't even be able to enjoy any of my hobbies. Of course wearing a caricature as a costume is racist but it's not even in the same ballpark as taking influence from other cultures.  Also Led Zeppelin never "covered" songs... they stole riffs, lyrics, melodies from black and white artists alike. But they never plagiarized a song through and through. Think of it more like a complicated patchwork of different musical ideas which is how most musicians actually write. The real culprit is Elvis Presley which was deliberately put in place by his producer as a white ambassador of black music.
Disagree with the points at the start of the video. The rest was good though
Definitely one of your weaker videos. One major point that you forgot to mention or maybe didn’t realize because you’re white is how cultural appropriation literally strips the culture from the group it’s stolen from. A good example is how a lot of black kids and young people are ashamed to like rock music despite black people creating it, so from that I can understand why black people are speak out about white “soul” artist and “rappers”
I’ve never seen a video of yours before, very well presented and funny and engaging. But you sort of lost me when you said that spirituality is bullshit? Do you have any videos talking about your beliefs (or lack thereof)?
I’ve never seen a video of yours before, very well presented and funny and engaging. But you sort of lost me when you said that spirituality is bullshit? Do you have any videos talking about your beliefs (or lack thereof)?
Spanish people are White so anything in their culture is free game for other whites. You telling me that a White American wearing lederhosen is Cultural Appropriation?
Nice spanish pronunciation btw
Writing a comment
I'm Argentinean. You can dress as a tango dancer and dance it horribly as Hollywood actors do, you can try to dress as a gaucho (and probably end up with a weird-looking mexican costume in the attempt) in your Halloween party, or you can drink mate with your friends. I will probably cringe about it, think "oh look at that idiot mocking my culture", find it weird to see it abroad, and maybe feel a little bit proud about it in some cases. But I will never, EVER insult you, go across the street to yell at you, tell you you're doing it all wrong or whine about how your are stealing my culture, or attack you.  Traditional culture and ceremony must be protected and preserved in the home community at all cost, but outside that sphere, fuck you mate. Culture is property of all people, and everyone can mould it , mix it, change it and recreate it. Yankees dress in big sombreros and mock the mexican culture, yet mexicans picture americans as fat cowboys eating burgers, and guess what, they are both in the correct. Just a little advise, don't do the cowboy shit while in Texas, and don't do the sombrero thing while in Mexico DF. You can't mock the culture inside the, let's call it "cultural safespace", and not expect repercusions.   I can't recall now the name of that shithead youtuber that did the filmming of the suicide forest in Japan, but he should be jailed. Japan had absolutly every right to be offended, and still they did the most humane thing that can be done: they expressed he was an idiot, irrespectful ""typical" american, and kept on with their lives. And with their culture as well. These extreme situations are the only ones capable of being frowned upon. But forbbiding a blonde little girl in NY from using a Moana costume for Halloween, well that's just a whole new level of mental sickness. Worst of all, hawaiians aren't the ones complaining about it, but other whites "in the name of the sacred culture of Hawaii". It is these kind of people who truly deserve a bullet in the head.
ARE YOU TRANSPLAINING AT ME
Always thoughtful. I dig your videos. 'Gracias.
ON A SCROLL?!?!?! NORSE WRITING ON A SCROLL?!?! HOW DARE YOU!?!?!? RUNES ARE CARVED INTO STONE
I'm Italian born and raised:  so from now on I hereby  FORBID you all  to eat pasta, pizza tiramisu, listen to classical music, enjoy  art (classical to  reinassance  = it's actually RINASCIMENTO)... etc etc See how violent and stupid the idea of cultural apporpriation and its consequences are?   Cultures are meant to be shared and  influence one another and change over time through compenetration. Peace
Tower records is still huge in Dublin
Honestly the amount of semi allies  and racists along with right wingers and corperate left moderates agreeing with you should let you know if maybe misses some thing or got something wrong
You are wrong about dreads. You are wrong about the dreads Vikings had, they were more like fairy locks and it wasn't looked at as a wonderful beautiful thing, they were very clean and obsessed with taking care of their hair. They had stories for how fairy locks happened.  Anyway, if you killed a culture to get it or have  exploited a culture, have prejudice or racist views about this culture,  you probably appropriated the idea.   Was it given freely is a good place to,start,  if is wasnt given and you have to go pass that then you you're just making excuses for things that make you uncomfortable.
I'm so glad you mentioned that dreadlocks originated with Hindu holy men. This is a point which is ignored in discussions about dreadlocks. Hindu and Sikh influence from Indian migrant workers on Rastafari culture in Jamaica has already been written about. Not to mention in the archaic period in ancient Greece, there was a population who wore matted hair, so the idea that one population group has a monopoly on a hair style is ludicrous. Nice work.
Not the main point of the video, but as a Jamaican, whenever I hear black Americans and Canadians do my accent, I dont know about cultural appropriation, but I do know it makes my ears bleed. I had to be hospitalized after watching Cool Runnings.
one problem with dreads is, from what i know, is that dread locks are just locks of really tightly curled hair and generally only black people have hair that kinky. any other race trying to get dread locks will have to actively destroy their or get dread extensions to have dread locks. and the reason hindu ascetics have dreads is because they haven't seen a bar of soap in their entire life and therefore are incredibly filthy and we should all stay away from them.
Everything is vanity?
I feel that a bigger problem of cultural appropriation is when large corporations take advantage of a society and then makes a profit off of their identity. An example would be seeing t-shirts, earrings, necklaces and almost anything else with an image of a dream catcher. Yeah it cannot be copy righted but it is a part of Native American identity. It would be preferable to buy the real thing instead of an imitation. Now as for kids making dream catchers then as long as the subject matter is handled correctly then it's fine. Sure, a member of the culture may not be immediately available to go into full detail about the subject matter but that doesn't mean the idea can not be told tastefully. Really once again it comes down to colonialism and the long lasting consequences of a culture being exploited.
I am going to eat dat fokn sushi and I am going to love it!  And no SJW is going to stop me >:D  besides, that lovely Japanese couple down the street who runs that lil Japanese Steakhouse loves my American greenbacks
Well, is dressing up in stupid racial/cultural stereotyping costumes really a mockery of that culture, or more a mockery of the racial/cultural stereotype? The funny part is how stupid the costume and stereotype is. So I'm honestly pretty okay with that. Well in most cases at least. I guess there are people who really just make fun of other cultures, but how often do you really see that?  Also what is wrong with a someone profiting from another culture if they simply do it "better" (as in sell it better, or at least well enough to profit from it), even if that culture is/was oppressed. If someone from that culture is held back so they can't profit from what they could do, it's a problem with them being oppressed, not someone else doing it.
spirituality is not a bunch of shit. your mind is open to political/social things but clearly not spiritual.
culture is becoming homogenised beause of internet, affordable travel, interracial relations, capitalism. Stop dividing it into groups, historically yes but soon culture will be planet  related and and there will only 1 race the human one
I agree with this video completely
Dreads are not appropriation, but god do white people look fucking terrible wearing it.
This is perfect. Nuance exists! We shouldn't be offended by everything, but also can not pretend that there is no value in respecting others.   Its amazing how much research, understanding philosophy, and empathy can help us have these difficult conversations.   I hate those that say only x group can talk about x subject. No as long as x member of x group acknowledges that their perspective and views are based on their experiences, and others may feel differently as they are not the authority on the matter. What we need is more perspective. More people having open dialogue. There will always be things that divide us as humans conversation is what can help remind us of how much we have in common.
You didn't actually talk about cultural appropriation. You talked about instances in which the concept of cultural appropriation is misapplied or used in exaggerated ways. Then came the conclusion that we should embrace cultural miscegenation. Okay... Cultural appropriation is about making minorities invisible by indulging in what they produce but not who they are. It is not white people doing things that people of color do, it is taking those things and removing their origin, context and inherent meaning.   So the Led Zeppelin example applies because they assumed ownership for the songs and by extension, erased their origin. Eminem is not an example of cultural appropriation because he honors hip-hop and would never divorce it from its origin, context and meaning. If anything, he broadened our understanding of those. White people explaining to you that Eminem is the greatest rapper that ever lived, that's cultural appropriation. That's what pisses people of color off more than anything. It's when meditation becomes about stress release as opposed to a religious practice. Yoga becomes about stretching. Sure they're useful practices, that's why they get appropriated to begin with! The value of what's being appropriated does not justify its appropriation.    Yes, human culture has always evolved through cultural exchanging and merging. Early jazz musicians we inspired by Debussy. That's not the point. Making it about cultural miscegenation is appropriating the discussion on cultural appropriation: bye bye origin, context and inherent meaning.
Why is that man wearing a dress?
<3
Heyyy, now this is a view point I can fully support
Fan-Fucking-Tastick. "What I'm really trying to say is, I like watching black men bang my wife." Amen, sister, amen.
In my opinion, white and black people are the same, so if a white person wants to have dread locks, I dont care.
You're fantastic
I worked at Tower Records in New York City in 1991
I just watched your incel video and I love you
RIP Stevie. I like you more for your blues appreciation, Contra.
I think there is a difference between taking aspect of another culture and explotiating or being disrespectful versing exchanging cultural idea that's isn't exploitative. I do feel it is a bit of mixed  issue my issue is some examples people give aren't the best . some cases makes sense. Cultural exchange is great thing  helps multi ethnic societies
Girl @ 03:09 yeah,I had to check a few times if she really had dreads...
No no no, you can't ruin Led Zepplein....please...
You are correct. You cracked me up! I love your makeup!!! Go on... with your bad self. 👍😁
life is a remix
i love sushi lol ill never stop eating LENA YOU CANT MAKE ME LOL
This is unironically the best video I've watched on this subject
Eris is a patron of yours? Hail Discordia!
I think yoga is a fine example of cultural appropriation due to The white people making money from someone else's religious practices without including those people thing.
Cultural appropriation doesn't exist.  Offensive costumes, xenophobia and racism exist.
I hated your spanish but I loved the bit about Led Zeppelin being douches
I fail to see how the oppression of a group is relevant to whether the cultural caricature is worthy of being denounced.
thank you so much for having more moderate views than so many other people on youtube
This is so well explained!
What the fuck was on these jars?
I don’t agree with all of your videos, but I’m really glad that I see very rational and logically thought out arguments against right AND left side bullshit coming from your channel! Thank you!
this deserves more views wtf this is so good
Everybody should have dreads, jk, that would be boring.
“ Hhwhites”
again: your culture can be preserved, and mockery of which should be worth chastising ONLY if you are a minority.  you effectively confirmed it in the beginning of the video.
Hey, tacoslinger here, we don't care if people dress like one of us
Fun fact, no one culture owns dreads and attacking someone based on their race because of their dreads is textbook racism. All cultures borrow from each other, it's not like "whitey stole everything" isn't a two way street.
You got the "Led Zeplin" story all wrong, but ok. They did credit the artists for the first two albums, but after some time Peter Grant, the manager, decided to remove such credits, but the originals do have their credits.
So it's about _plagiarism!_ I actually get it now!
I thoroughly enjoyed this video and I have to admit I honestly didn't expect to. Thank you for the content you contribute.
4:41 And there stands Clapton, crying his eyes out because of the way you ignored him in your video. But he rode with the King, and the King was OK with it.
"Is it wrong for black Americans to do a Caribbean accent?". YES. Yes, yes a thousand times yes. Everyone from American STOP doing Caribbean accents. It's the cringiest goddamn thing I've ever seen. Just stop. Please.
If cultural apropriation is real, then stop using things made by asians. So 99 percent of shit... Just go jump off a bridge or subsist only on things you made yourself. If mocking another culture and honoring another culture is so similar lets not do anything that has been done befor, hell all food has cultural roots, stop eating then...
Dread locks are cross cultural, if you think one group shouldnt express themselves you are racist against that group...
Even religions made by brown people? Dangit, now my retreat of appropriated religions is not going to sell out
As a substantial part of this video seems to be about dreadlocks in Europoid people, I'd just like to point out that there was such a thing as Polish plait (plica in Latin, kołtun or gościec in Polish) (google it), popular, among other places, in Mazovia, where I hail from. Before it became a social stigma it was rather widespread and had some elaborate cultural meaning. So, the next time someone targets your blond dreadlocks simply say "It's not dreadlocks, its a Polish plait".
I've gotta be real Natalie. As  Cis dude that voice trained away from a low voice and is working back toward my natural voice, I'm really REALLY proud of how well your voice has progressed and it's like watching a completely different person.  I hope my voice can transition as easily as yours has.   Kudos :)
6:00 When you direct "justified" frustration at clearly wrong targets it ceases to be justified.  Just stating the obvious here.
Honestly, you should STOP thinking in cultures! I really give a shit about what color your skin is, what your hair looks like an so on. I could not care less, if it looks nice then it looks nice and i might adapt it myself if i find it fitting to me, regardless of any culture or any ethnetic stuff. Leave me alone and let me wear what I want. Period. And from a personal perspective: As long as you are nice to me, I will be nice to you, regardless of anything. Races do not exist, get over it. If you think someone can or can not do something because they have a different skin color, then you are part of the problem.
Why do you even care about races? When it sounds nice, then be quite. If it does not sound nice, then dont listen to it. Why should there be privileges to one culture to another? There shouldn't! If you tell me only black ppl are allowed to wear braids or dreads then you are by definition racist, because you privilege one culture over the other in that topic.
I can't tell if you're serious. Is that the point?
My brother told me about you today, and I couldn't be happier. I love you so much.
Interesting points, but I feel like it’s intrinsically flawed for a fellow white person to be trying to define and ok what is or isn’t cultural appropriation. At the end of the day, we’re not the ones suffering the hardest consequences of cultural/ethnic/racial issues at the hands of whiteness, so it’s really not up to us to be an authority on them.
Can a white person wear dreadlocks?  The answer in a democratic state: "Yes!" - topic finished.  The answer in a totalitarian Nazi state: "No, that's racial/cultural defilement - mixing races/cultures is a crime!"  I'm democrat and therefore give a shit on cultural appropriation. Fuck SJW!
I was a "chinaman"  back in the 80's in a Bangor Community Theater production of Anything Goes, in which I also did a semi nude scene.
cultural appropriation doesn't exist.
1:44 But the Irish WERE historically marginalized people, even here in North America, until relatively recently. There's no real difference between the "Braves" and the "Fighting Irish" when viewed through the lens of cultural appropriation. Those who espouse the horrors of cultural appropriation seem to have great difficultly drawing consensus on what it even is, and to what degree it should be tolerated. The reason for this is because it's a meaningless concept that very few people consider seriously outside of far-left fringes of the internet.
Man appropriates women. No problem though!! smh.
Well it's a little more complicated than that. The power imbalances are clear to you when they occur within the US, but there are major global power imbalances (contributed to mostly by colonialism in places other than America). I don't want people to close down yoga studios either, but it can't just be dismissed off-hand the US is so powerful that now when someone says yoga I picture a white American woman doing bendy stuff in Miami. And I am from India.  This IS something that needs to be discussed and it IS something that people should be more aware of. There's basically nothing the people with the original culture can do to prevent the regurgitated distortion of what they used to do coming back home to swamp them. Like has happened with black music. Even when people "ethically" do it the result is still the complete take away of the thing that they came up with. Isn't that something to be genuinely concerned about?  I think it is important when a culture's things are taken by another culture and then, within a matter of years/decades spread by this other culture around the world and even back to the place of its origin. I am not saying don't do it, but I still think it should come with some sort of sensitivity to what is being done. Also the culture that "takes" the thing usually only takes some weird bastardised thing and most of the meaning is lost.  The effect is vastly different based on the culture and place that is doing the appropriation. US culture is _exported_ everywhere, it is perfectly safe. When Eastern Europe is obsessed with Bollywood it has a totally different effect than (if) the US were to suddenly get inspiration from large Bollywood set pieces.
Also you didn’t have locks you had mats. White hair doesn’t have the right shape to lock together.
It’d be chill if you didn’t refer to native Americans as “mostly extinguished” because it diminishes their power. They have enough trouble getting shit done without people referring them as if they’re in their way out and there’s barely any of them anyway. Thanks! Love you!!
You said fucking, killing and enslaving. But I think better would be enslaving, fucking and killing. I mean, not better, but...
how far we have come in the CPEU (contrapoints extended universe)
Celts also had dreadlocks, it's a hairstyle.
I actually am offended by the Minnesota Vikings because most of their fans and players are Christians and thereby, not viking Not very offended, only slightly.
more made up racism to keep minorities in victimhood to vote for their saviors the democrats.
I mean the Led Zepelin thing is just plain intellectuial property theft, though they may not have realized what they were doing It's particularly non-okay because they stole from disenfranchised people, but it's not really something you need an extra word for. And I think just calling it "theft" or "claiming credit for something they didn't make" is more likely to be productive than to shout a buzzword that will just start an argument and reinforce the notion of this as a "special interest issue" vs. "theft" which communicates "black authors/ indegenous artists are people and you shouldn't steal from them":  I don't even think carricatures/costumes are *always* bad (are we mocking firemen and cowboys?) though it helps to have a sense of tact, & keep in mind the effect of one's speech, as with any expression, ie someone's always gomnna be offended but you shouldn't go out of your way to trample people's feelings or rub salt in their wounds. For example "Blackface" - as in the particular carricature with the big red lips & the earrings etc, not necessarily any makeup that makes you look like a different group - originated as a tool of opression so it's a tad like displaying a confederate flag and it's almost impossible to do it "innocently"
To me this seems to be an imposition of American Viewpoints on the rest of the world (in India or Japan they  even welcome it if you appreciate their stuff) and ultimately subscribes to essentialism and the fallacious doctrine of "pure" cultures.  A lot of cultural goods we have today were created through syncretism, imitation and mixing. Christianity was Greek orators ripping off the hebrews.  Speaking of which: I don't "respect" a cross or a military uniform so why should cultural symbols from anywhere be given this kind of untouchable reverence? I mean of course you're more responsible for criticising your own culture & should reserve judgements with things you understand less, but what's with affording utterly manmade faily universal things this "srz bzness" factor, especially when it winds up limiting creativity? Shouldn't philosophies or practices or fashion be things that represent good ideas which might spread precisely because of that goodness?   This doesn't mean that one shouldn't acknowledge *why people are actually angry* - The problem is not some blonde chick with dreadlocks, but how black kids get hassled for their hairstyles, how indigenous artists don't get paid,  the terrible living conditions on reservations, how hard it is for asian actresses to find jobs, the lack of positive representation  etc. Ifthose were fixed no one would sweat this kind of thing, just as no one throws a fitr when a Japanese cartoon borrows Christian iconography for aesthetics.
I love your broad taste in music and how you actually put in the effort to speak spanish, chinese or japanese correctly in your videos
How did you do the whole vid  in Day of the Dead makeup and not acknowledge that?
lost it at 'wagwarn youtube'
So what you are saying is, imitating other cultures is fine. But don't profit from them without giving them credit.
I am so subscribed!
And they say the left cant meme.
Cultures are already a result of cultural apropriation, after all we've been influencing each other ever since the beggining. Per example, just like in the UK, US uses pounds and miles to measure weight and length respectivelly, is it that bad? No. And racist jokes don't make you racist, and that should be obvious for those people that think that dressing like a slut doesn't make you one.
My white person dreads are in no way trying to be Rasta anything. If anything I am an Ontarioian appropriating British Columbian hippie culture. My hair is naturally horribly tangly and this situation is the easiest to deal with. I find it incredibly cheesy when I see on occasion a dreadlocked BC kid wearing a rasta hat or what have you. It's not very common though. And those people genuinely appreciate the culture and music, so is that really a bad thing? It's no one's business why I wear my hair as I do.
mmm, it funny how you say that it's racist to mock mexican culture and at the same time, you don't know that mexican are white... it doesn't surprise, you are jankee, jankees doesn't know how use words like racism, race, sex, and so on.
Being "offended" seems to be an archetypically US-American sentiment. It appears to be so much more popular there than conceivably similarly expedient emotions like being worried, confused or angry. I would really appreciate other cultures to not culturally appropriate this integral and defining part of us-identity. And I would love to spare us all the agony it would bring about to our cultures of debate... learn from others' mistakes.
1:29 I really don't see how you can claim "redskin" to be a racial slur in this context whatsoever. Obviously the term is somehow revered by the fact, that it's well the bloody team name... you certainly wouldn't call your team the Cleveleand cunts or the St. Louis Slug munchers, which clarifies two things at once: Redskin (like whiteskin, blackskin, greenskin) is not inherently a slur and that you would not choose a name for your team that you'd perceive to be fundamentally ridiculous or insulting (even though in other contexts it functions as a slur just like all of these -skin words do).  P.S. It's not like I personally care, don't even know what kind of sports this team performs, but I'm baffled how that shit was 'rationalised'.
So what's difference between multiculturalism and cultural appropriation? Everyone living together, enjoying eachother's food, music, holidays and traditions?
Youre fucking wierd, but youre freaking awesome!
My favourite cultural appropriation happened in Tokyo.   There is a  "British pub" chain called HUB in Japan (owned by Japanese), which is styled on forementioned British pubs and basically comodifies the whole British experience.  Anyway, so they were caught turning away England fans (pensioners, everything) during the World Cup England - Panama game, because they wanted to close the pub to decorate for a japan game they could sell tickets to some 4-5 hours later.  This left a lot of English tourists wandering the streets desperately trying to find somewhere they could watch the football on a Sunday night in the middle of Tokyo. ^_^
At 7:00.....Robert Plant is missing a fucking tooth, dude!
I like a lot of what you have to say, but to be honest as I said to the "liberals" who "white-splained" HIllary Clinton's history of objective behavior - that's easy for you to say as a white guy that very little of this effects.
Unexpected Tower Records is, well, unexpected.
I have been on a binge watching your videos for the past 1-2 weeks or so, and fuck your shit is good. They've been useful as a starting point for me to define my beliefs since I've spent the past 20 years of my life actively avoiding holding any sort of defined beliefs/positions.   Either way, what I wanted to say is that you've mentally penetrated me so goddamn deep I had a dream of digging around in my room only to find the box with your dreads, and naturally putting them in my mouth. Thanks.
I just realized something thinking racism is over is super "post modern" let's just ignore the past on why things are now and pretend like things being semi-equal (as in we removed laws actively repressing people) for a few decades, has erased centuries of culture and racists bureaucracy and institutions. Perhaps some people latch onto this idea because school seems to teach it in "history," as if contemporary history, or even older history, has no effect on where we are today...as opposed to having literally everything to do with where we are. It would be nice to pretend things are how they should be now, but they'll never get there in reality if we keep pretending.  Hey guys gay people can get married now so, HOMOPHOBIA IS OVER ! ITS OVER EVERYONE ACCEPTS GAY PEOPLE NOW ! AUTOMATICALLY   Why isn't Jordan Peterson complaining about this ? Hmmmmm lol
Led zeppelin fanboy with wet dreams about Robert Plant to the rescue!  Led zeppelin practically worshipped bluesmen from the delta and chicago, and they breached the barrier of races to bring blues to everyone. The descendants of Memphis Minnie (a blues artist whose lyrics were "stolen") got rich thanks to Led Zeppelin. B.B. King ( a bluesman that started in the fifties) explained once how he was thankful for people like the guys in Led Zeppelin and Eric Clapton for having brought blues to other cultures.   While the examples you brought of spitting on the graves of oppressed people by ridiculing their image were interesting, I still don't think the concept of cultural appropriation stands. It's basically "woke neosegregationism" aka tankie garbage.  Love your stuff ContraPoints, but I felt this needed addressing.
Isn't assuming that just because an ethnic group did something in the past, it is culturally significant, a fallacy? Just because the Hindu mystics had locs doesn't itself imply deeper meaning, it could have originated as a hair style of utility. Isn't that us modern people applying an assumed sense of value to something No one examines it from that perspective.
Fuck I'm mad that you're right??? Goddamn it.
You should have added a note on Acculturation, which is a more organic extension of cultural influences blending together after a long period of co-existence. Cultural Appropriation deals more with post-colonial struggles between a minority and ruling majority.  I do not agree you should dismiss the Irish "cultural appropriation". They were a heavily marginalized minority in the US itself. Post-potato famine, indentured servitude ( which was quite common for the Irish to serve such contracts). Their sub-citizen status persisted well into the former part of the 20th century and, slowly, dissipated with the influx of the black population into urban areas. This is where they had to compete for jobs which only exacerbated already prevalent racism towards the black community.  Other than that good video.
I feel like this could be a relevant re-post or update video.
Maybe I'm wrong but even white people used dreadlocks, I think there are examples found on pottery from ancient Greece of Spartans.
I haven't finished the video, but your Spanish is really good Natalie
Cultural approbation is an iffy topic
Spiritualism is lit, and so are you
I'm fine caricatures and cultural appropriation. No, I'm not white, and no one owns a fucking culture.
Samedi?
Why shouldn't there be cultural appropriation all over the place? Why shouldn't people of all cultures be allowed to enjoy what they like from other cultures? The motor car was invented in Germany and vaccines in England - should only Germans drive cars or English get vaccinated? Only Americas fly in planes or wear Jeans? Only the descendants of the ancient Sumerians read and write?
There is another issue too.  Its that when people adopt things like yoga shushi etc but refuse to give jobs to people who are experts in the fields.  Like isnt it weird when you enter an indian restaurant and there are no indians inside?  Or the recent debacles with clothes.  Id they had a native american as a designer this wouldnt have happened
The soundtrack behind the Hindu bit at the record store is Georgian folk music btw, made me laugh because I recognized it. Not a critique of the video though, I think you present nuanced and interesting arguments. Thanks!
why did YouTube recommend me to this channel? i don't care youtube!
Let me tell a story of a girl: She was born and raised in USA, she has black and white roots. But because of her curly hair and full lips: she's more associated with her black roots. She has no connection to her family in Africa and she's not even sure WHERE they live (which country/group). She also has no connection to her family in Europe. Most or all of her "african culture references" are american. All her family speaks english. She never lived in an african country. She did a DNA test recently to know her origins: MANY countries involved, some of them were africans. She has no cultural/emotional/social relation to any of those groups: she proceds to treat THAT "CONNECTION" as the most important characteristic of her identity. She mixes MANY different cultures and addapt them to her own taste: she proceds to call that "connecting to her african roots". She doesn't know the meaning/history behinds most of those symbols/clothing/food/... But she feels as if she's an EXPERT, she also believes she has a right over any african related things (no matter what country they came from: to her all African groups are the same, anyway).  IF YOU DON'T CALL HER OUT FOR "CULTURAL APROPRIATION": DON'T CALL OTHERS OUT FOR THIS
"Like the idea that audiences should refrain from talking while music is performed, the idea that women should be able to move about as freely and easily as men is a cultural product—popularized by the North Atlantic world in the period after the First World War. If it’s wrong for one culture to borrow from another, then it was wrong to invent the cheongsam in the first place—because not only did the garment’s shape originate outside China, but so, too, did the garment’s purposes. It was precisely because they appreciated that they were importing Western ideas about women that the inventors of the cheongsam adapted a Western shape. They took something foreign and made it something domestic, in a pattern that has repeated itself in endless variations since the Neolithic period." https://www.theatlantic.com/politics/archive/2018/05/cultural-appropriation/559802/
You crazy fuck, I don't think we agree on much but you do have a well developed powerful style. Good video Keep it up, I look forward to knowing more about how wrong you are. Who knows? You might see the light some day.
So children must suffer for the sins of the fathers. Got it.
I am black and I wore faux dreadlocks just because they look cute on me.
I think a lot of conversations around appropriation don't fairly consider definitions. Maybe we should call insensitive or exploitative appropriation "misappropriation".
lol i didn't think i was going to get on board, but your opener about how it's not appropriation it's caricature was on point
This topic is one that often suprised me. Immitation is flattering. South Koreans absolutely loved when I tried to do as they do and dress as they dress. Thy found any appriation I did to be showing great respect to their culture. They were eager to teach me more. I think most cultures feel this way about genuine appropriation. The recent nothing burger with the young girl going to prom in an asian style dress is a perfect example. I think the examples where you feel it is problematic are spot on however. Trying to claim ownership of somthing like Zeplyn or making a mockery of something. These are the only times I am even slightly offended. Even then only slightly. I am Italian and I don't lost a nights sleep over Mario Brothers ar Fucking guidos on Jersey Shore.
It is indeed a well-acomplished spanish accent xd
This was great and I'm subbing. I disagree about the costumes being inherently racist, but I like the way you present your points and open up a conversation to be had. I agree with basically everything else you said. Cultures being intertwined instead of segregated leads to greater understanding of each other and ultimately a better world to love and live in. Also your costumes and sets make me smile.   This video needs more views
Totally irrelevant, but I see that Boss multi-FX pedal in the background. You've good taste, m'am. (Uh, can I call you that? Serious Question. My cisgendered Russkie-Rican ass is still trying to figure all this out).
The Zeppelin example was helpful in improving my understanding. Thanks.
i think that you got something wrong
Is it racist for an Asian to dress as a cowboy. Is it sterotyping for an arab to dress as a leprachaun. Is it cultural appropriation for an Arab to dress as sumo wrestler.   So what if halloween costumes are caricatures. They're supposed to be fun. If you find halloween costumes upsetting, you are a child.
Hmm, I remember when I was younger and it was stereotyping when you entertained or enforced racial roles. For example, people would be up in arms if the martial artist in a film was always Asian, as it stereotyped all Asian people as all martial artists, despite the reality is that only a minority of Asian people even know martial arts, much less are any good at it.  Yet, now if there is a martial artist role for a film, and the role doesn't go to an Asian person, someone decries either cultural appropriation or whitewashing.   This seems inherently contradictory. What I mean is that the modern idea of cultural appropriation seems, at least superficially, to be the intentional enforcement or maintenance of stereotypes, as though that's a good thing.  What gives?
Lets be honest, a large percentage of black people wear dreadlocks because they identify with hip hop culture.  It has nothing to do with them making some kind of spiritual, or religious statement.  If dreadlocks is some sacred, religious hairstyle, and an equivalent of the Native headdress or some shit, then why don't black people get mad at their rappers for taking the spiritual significance out of the hairstyle?  When black people wear dreads as a means to look gangsta, do other black people even bother to check them?  Like.....  "Hey man, pull your pants up when you represent them locks.  When you wear dreadlocks for the purpose of looking gangsta you're part of the problem.  You're reinforcing a negative stereotype."
White people invented electricity sooooo yeah stop using electricity people of color.
Damn girl I love you!!!  You say everything I wish I could say...... and was smart enough like you to support it
well let the USA stop using arabic numerals to start. *sigh* seeing black people with Italian suits complaining about cultural appropriation......
I agree that halloween costumes are caricatures of cultures, but as a latino, i have no problem with somebody dressed as a españolo en un burro, as a matter of fact, i love it.
His content and commentary get better with time but his appearance and voice becomes more deranged
There's no such thing as cultural appropriation. To Appropriate something means to take it without the owners consent. Am I supposed to gather all the black people of the world together and ask them if I can wear dreadlocks?   If black people own dreadlocks and Mexican people own sombreros and Asians own sushi, then white people own the free market, constitution, secularism the interstate system, cars, phones, computers, the internet, airplanes, internal/external combustion engines, electricity, most of modern medicine, indoor plumbing, etc, etc etc....   Cultural appropriation is an incredibly childish and petty concept.   If I see you doing something that impresses me, I will probably try it myself, or at least think about it, and I wont ask your permission. Because I live in a free society and I am just as much a human as you are and you don't own a hairstyle and if you've made a great time/work/life saving invention you will make it available to everyone and likely get rich.  Tired of everyone competing for who's the biggest victim.   If you older than 12 you're too old for this shit.
WHITE PEOPLES 'HAIR DREADS UP LIKE ANY OTHER HAIR! BLACK PEOPLE DO NOT 'OWN' DREADLOCKS!! DREADS ON WHITE PEOPLE IS FINE AND DANDY AND NATURAL. AND LOOKS COOL. AND GIRLS WITH DREADS ARE HOT.
Bit late to the party, but thanks for articulating these thoughts. Also, +1 for the HeroQuest box set.
Good video. Solid.
i watch your videos despite disagreeing and generally find them very interesting anf entertaining. though i did have one real problem with a point in this one. i think that having irish stereotypes (a people who had to escape prosecution in their own country only to face discrimination in the country they were moving to) along with vikings (literally raped and pillaged and were never oppressed). though wikings had power and did what they wanted, the irish had to leave ireland to avoid religious and governmental prosecution. then when they got here they were stereotyped as lazy, destructive, and they were categorized along with other oppressed groups of the time.   overall, my point is that i dont think white people are above being disadvantaged or sterreotyped against as a whole. dont feel bad for vikings, but people actively oppressed the irish.
black people aren't all Jamaican XD
The irish and italians where treated like shit. look at irish history.
Whoa contra looks like a dude here
In the early 1800s black performers were popular in large Northern cities. White performers stole those acts and then worked to exclude blacks from performing in front of white people. That would be an example of cultural appropriation. Taking an element of another culture and then keeping its original practitioners from continuing.  Or the Pat Boone effect from the 1950s.   Perhaps we should include exclusion in a definition of cultural appropriation.
I keep trying to give this video a thumbs up, but I already have. Youtube should allow us to like something more than once.
I'd love to see Eminem sing Wagner
hey wtf im mexican.. this is extremely offensive.. everyyyythiinngggggggg!!!! specially that white black face u tried to pull up..
Everyone here be mad about dreadlocks, and yet when a circumcised dick on a gentile flops out no one gets butthurt...well not emotionally at least.
I'm glad we here simply have no concept of cultural appropriation so everyone hates dreads just cause they are weird, which is a bit more true to themselves then covering their inacceptance just by "black lives matter"
This is the most reasonable short video I've ever seen on this topic.
Im really enjoying your videos. Ive been stuck with this mind set of 'yes i'm left yes i'm for progress but i feel its against me' and seeing your videos that both support some fears ive had in clear and well worded ways and then challenge some of my views in a way that makes alot of sense is really helping my mind settle and take a fresh look at things. Thank you.
You can start protesting the white genocide in South Africa then.
I was always told dreadlocks are less CA and more just being stupid bc locks are meant as a protective style, designed specifically for “black hair” (3c-4c hair). So it’s seen as inappropriate bc you’re not using them as a protective style, just for the ~~aesthetique~~
New favourite youtuber!
1 second ago I have no idea what the left is up to with this dippy shit. I think a lack of suffering and poverty in the west has led them to go trawling for abuse, poverty and injustice.   Europe uses languages which were 'imposed' upon it by 'invasion' of Asian-based languages and also its number system, which has made things easier these last 800+ years.   This 'invasion'  eradicated nearly all European languages 100s of generations ago.   European languages now belong to Europe and also the world. The Indian number system belongs to the world - not to India or Europe or anywhere else.   The logic of parcelling out something to racial groups cropped up - perhaps 1st - in Romanticism's wake. It was taken up by the Nazis - who really ran with it. To see the modern left dig up its corpse and actually get traction on the issue, makes me wonder whether I am dreaming or not.  I fail to see how morons on the modern left can even begin to defend this ahistorical, impractical and frankly absurd crock of horseshit.
I feel like a more rounded person watching your videos. *so* glad I found this channel
Is this more or less the typical view of cultural appropriation on the left? Coz I can get behind this. I thought it meant more like "if you're white and you listen to rap you're wrong."
wey, me encantó tu intro! XD jajajaja
This is fucking genius.. haha, you rule big time!
Anyone who thinks 'cultural appropriation' is a serious issue - should stop communicating in English and use a non-Asian-derived, European language isolate instead. I suggest Euzkadi (Basque) I would also ask you to stop using the Indian number system or any form of modern science which appropriated Indian mathematics and language to create modern science. So, that's all of modern language, counting and physics. Turn off your computer and stop culturally appropriating  Indian people who've been dead for 3+ thousand years.  Alternatively, you could just develop a critical faculty and write this pseudo-religion off  as a crock of horsehit!
I feel like this issue is overblown.  There are a few people who are way too extreme about it, and then there are the "anti-SJWs" (for lack of better word) who focus on the most offended and exaggerate it.  In general I feel people should be free to express themselves in any ways they want, but simply stop and listen if there is some sort of objection to what they are doing rather than taking offense.    An example of this is wearing a feathered head dress.  Sure it looks nice, but is it really celebrating indigenous cultures?  Is it honouring it if the person wearing it has no idea what it means?  To me if they wear it without knowing what it means, they are simply proudly showing their ignorance.  I think asking someone wearing it if they know the meaning of it would be a great start.  I will paraphrase Canadian Mi'kmaq poet Rebecca Thomas on what she says the head dress means (and please correct me if I am wrong).  She said that a head dress has to be earned.  It is something given to a chief for the work they have been doing for their tribe.  It is not something that just anyone wears.  I felt like she was mostly offended at the ignorance of the culture rather than the object itself.    I think a parallel to this would be if any random person wore a military uniform.  In some places (such as Canada), it is actually illegal to impersonate a soldier and wear medals they did not earn.  If someone went to a Halloween party dressed as a soldier, some people can claim they are celebrating soldiers and veterans.  Others might be offended at that display and say it is disrespectful.
If any of these things truly offend you then neck yourself lol
Well when other races stop speaking English then they can bitch about "cultural appropriation".  It's a non-issue in my opinion. More divide and conquer over stupid irrelevant "issues".
Is just a complex topic because you still have the notion of race (and that makes you racist) and you keep adding new rules to pretend you are not racist.
Why does Contra with dreads look like Lil Pump
Finally a video  i agree with
I'm not sure HOW to draw the line, but I feel like it's "morally obvious" if you take some time to think about individual examples. For instance, wearing clothes made by Japanese, Indian, and First Nation (Native American) clothing producers, including very traditional clothing, is 100% fine because they have explicitly invited the west to purchase and wear their products. Indian fashion industry is huge and they export all the time. Japan's ancient culture is losing traction and they rely on export to keep their methodology preserved. Native Americans are our forced neighbors, so we exchange all the time.  HOWEVER, this doesn't include, for instance, shitty Halloween costumes (for reasons of mockery) but ALSO doesn't include products BASED on those cultures, because the people they belong to don't receive any sort of benefit from it. If traditional kimono makers in Japan got overtaken by fake american-made kimonos in the market, not only would it be disrespectful to customers expecting high quality and customary production methods, not only would it be disrespectful of Japanese people, but it would also indirectly contribute to harm against Japanese culture.  This is a problem with us and our First Nations people as well, since many retailers are using the designs of traditional clothing without actually paying anybody for them, and without that money going to the appropriate culture. They are not doing well financially, and taking their ideas for profit is immoral and bordering on, if not actually illegal. Similar to large retailers stealing indie digital artist's designs and selling tshirts for a profit the artist will never see a dime of.  So In SOME cases, it's not about a white person wearing moccasins, but rather the story of the purchase and creation of those moccasins.  This coincides with another important aspect: CULTURAL BLESSING. When Japanese kimono makers say that white people can and should wear their kimonos, that's a BLESSING and should be taken into consideration.  In my neck of the woods, "smudging" is a popular culturally appropriative hippie practice that involves burning bundles of sage as a magical/spiritual ritual that "cleanses" an area of negative influence, frequently done upon moving into a new room. As this is a First nation practice and all these people doing it around here are white, it's clear they're barking up someone else's tree. However, a white friend of mine made friends with a local tribe while hiking and regularly visits them and have a nice relationship with them. They explicitly gave my friend permission to practice smudging. If that doesn't count for something, I'm not sure what does. When my friend performs this ritual, the only thing different between them and all the other white people waving around roasted herbs is CULTURAL BLESSING.  There are other factors that matter a lot but this is all i have the energy for right now.
Led Zeppelin did rock n roll better than any other blues black dude from southern U.S. EVERYTHING IS A REMIX. There is no such thing as an 100% original piece, everything is derived from something else, and even the black folks had white influence in their music.
If you wear pants you are appropriating Western culture. If you eat with a fork you are appropriating Western culture.
You're committing gender appropriation by dressing like a woman and talking in a faggy voice. Shame on you.
You literally in this video before half way through the video show why this entire thing is stupid and pointless, the people who are being charactured mostly dont care. People don't care if you dress up as an indian. Well most people. Why can't people do what they want so long as it doesn't stop other people from doing what they want. Like fuck really this is what they mean by authoritarian left.
I'm gonna really give you a chance here to convince me, good luck.
Isn't that the whole point of the US
The accusation of cultural appropriation is racist. You have to look at a person, recognize they are a different race, and then decide your cultures should not go together so they must be offending you intentionally. It's a disgusting and insecure accusation to make. If the caricature offends you, cease to be the caricature you piece of garbage. So tired of crybabies. Unsubscribed.
PAPA BLESS
Every time that black dude goes "Are you Egyptian?" all I can think is "Are you egyptian, my dude?"  in destiny's voice. lol
There is this woman with dreads--white--nobody cares.
Fun fact this years 2018 gala so many white Catholics thought they had to right to call it "cultural appropriation" even though  1. It's not a culture it's a religion  2. You imposed said religion on literally every country in the world are easily responsible for many major crimes from now, all the back to when the byzantine empite first emerged (yes I know it's not modern day Catholicism but you see my point) 3. The event itself was funded BY THE CATHOLIC CHURCH  The alt-right wants to be oppressed and the victims so bad smh
Who do these people think they are? Treating this country like its some sort of a melting pot.
Sabes como un argentino yo solo me pregunto hasta qué punto es raro recibir un mensaje en un idioma que apenas tienen la decencia de entender en contextos específicos pero nosotros tenemos que aprender su idioma simplón y estupido fuera de eso este es un buen video 20/10
But the 'fighting irish' was named by anglo descended people. They enslaved us and murdered us pretty badly haha.
Imagine being this boring
1:56 Yeah, no you wouldn't. That's one of the things that led me away from the left. Even when a white ethnic group (Irish, Polish, Spanish, etc) has been colonialized and oppressed leftists still consider it racist when the defend their culture and right to exist as a cohesive group. Because it was never about standing up for marginalized peoples, it's about hating white people.
As is ever the case lad (and always has been) I 40% agree with you.  But I'm not American so I can't comment on baseball or any of that stuff.  But as far as music goes its influential and ever changing and in my (long long long) memory Zepplin, The Beatles , The Rolling Stones, Black Sabbath etc, etc, always referred to and spoke reverentially of all their influences thus exposing vast audiences to many otherwise unsung artists (which frequently were black Blues or Soul artists).  I will take some tiny sliver of the (largely bollixology)SJW rhetoric seriously but the "cultural appropriation" stuff can disappear up its own jacksie (irish idiom for arsehole)
Natalie: I used to be a white person with deadlocks. Me: I KNEW IT. She has the look!
Appropriate me, appropriate me! For imitiation is the sincerest form of flattery. But do it right, because stupid imitation is failed flattery, and that's an insult.  So don't robotically copy _your_ version of me: robotically copy _my_ version of me.
As a Caribbean national the use of Caribbean accents by North American blacks is annoying because they do it badly, and it is never necessary to switch to another accent unless you are attempting to show that you belong to a community, and their skin colour does not give them entry into my community. And reminder to North Americans, the Caribbean is racially diverse, using a Caribbean accent is not the use of another black tongue. They can use our words though, but anyone can, just pronounce it correctly.
Trash
What do you think about a more proud mascot like the "Braves" or something that celebrates their history not reduces it as you explained? Are we more or less racist then the previous generation?
why can't we just let people wear the fuck they want?
Led Zeppelin also plagiarised white rock bands. Their career is based on plagiarism, actually. Anyway, if whites can't wear dreadlocks and play "black" music, then black people shouldn't be allowed to wear suits and enroll in universities, since those are elements of white European culture. I don't see the SJW cancer slamming blacks and other non-whites for appropriating white European culture. SJWs are as racist as the neo-nazis, and all real socialists should fight and destroy both of those groups in the name of true anti-racism.
I can say that what led zep did was shitty without even bringing up cultural appropriation, it's an unnecessary layer in my view. Still part of the facts that they were white and they stole from black people. I just think that there's nothing intrinsically racist about "appropriating", it's partly how we evolve and create.
Thumbs up if you used to be a shitlord
Damn you are good
That opener, cutting to the guitar scene was perfect. And setting yourself on fire 😂😂😂 also perfect.
Thank the YouTube recommendations gods for blessing me with your channel.  Subscribed
YAY YOU MENTIONED THE BRITISH INVASION! THAT'S LIKE THE BEST EXAMPLE
I feel like high school trends have gone too far. People trying to Justify teenager out rage that over follow to adult life. Come on people grow up, stop acting like a child throwing a fit.
The Irish question? They just based the first part of Infinity War and an episode of VictoriaBBC on it.  Change it to maybe, -Laughing Leprechaun or something-  Or not, apparently it's self deprecating so they did have a say.
Mockery =/= racism. To claim Halloween outfits are racist because the outfits are outlandishly stereotypical is ridiculous. I mock many of the things I appreciate. I call dubstep toilet noises, even though I appreciate the genre. Just because it's offensive to you doesn't mean it is inherently offensive. What I find harmless comedy, you might call shameless mockery. I think racism is the deeply rooted belief in segregation and superiority of a race, not the superficial and lighthearted mockery by wearing an outlandish costume. Am I the only one who feels this way?
So where would you draw the line? In my house, I teach that America is a melting pot of cultures or at the very least should be viewed as one. Making fun of another culture by appropriating it is WRONG! But how can you differentiate someone's true desire to wear dreads, as opposed to them making fun of the rasta culture? Why is skin color still an issue in the 21st century? Please reply at your earliest convenience. Sincerely.
You have an understanding of the nuance that is missing from modern day discourse on sensitive social issues. Great videos!
well. That was retarded to watch
4:56 thats Georgian polyphonic singing! don't get my culture in your degenerate videos!
Would Egyptian guitar players forming a mariachi band be considered cultural appropriation?
"She was only 3 years old, but that's a real fine way to start." -Robert Plant/'Heartbreaker'  (just wondering what culture?)
1:15 There's no point in watching this video any more. How the fuck is it wrong for gringos to dress like mexicans and not wrong for Italian, Mexican, Russian, Albanian to dress like cowboys or in traditional Dutch costumes during a carnival? It's just DRESS UP you moron! You just pretend to be something you're not, exactly how you're pretending to be a woman wearing your fancy dresses
Ugh don't grab people. Disagree with folks, but don't grab them. That's a safety and boundary issue.
One of the most rational takes on this subject, thanks for this great video.
I've never given this much thought, so I decided to think about it for a while. And then after thinking about it for like a few days, I came to a conclusion. The reason why I didn't give a fuck about it is that I'm not from the first world. And I think that this mostly comes down to first world people finding things to take offence to. I'm pretty sure that people who participate in "cultural appropriation" don't really mean any harm. And the fact that someone might take offence to that is actually funny to me. Then again the whole concept of culture is stupid to me and it seems to segregate and divide people more (like religion and nationalism) than it does to celebrate the existence of said culture. That being said, I'm white so who fucking cares what I think.
Culture is appropriation
Cultural appropiation as a concepte is inherently racist. Because it states that white people can't assimilate into another or have a symbiotic relationship with different cultures.
the "rasta hat" is called a "tam", pronounced like the name "Tom".
WHATS IN THE JARS
I'd like the Redskins to keep the name but change their mascot to a Potato.
this is your worst video so far.
"Cause no-one gives a shit about you and your hypothetical problems"  The two-way touche! :D
Offensive costumes aren’t real problems.
*It's all in your hand, not head
Fan...
You rock please check out my culture apportioned videos
White marxist SJW tranny tells other white pople what they can or can not wear, to protect the feelings of brown people.
Can't be racist if race isn't real.
Omg your man voice sounds exactly like maynard James keenan.
Ok, maybe someone can reflect on my thoughts on culture: I think of culture as the upholding(?) of old traditions and values. And I think from that there comes more bad than good. (I will use "western" examples because I don't know anything about other cultures) For example, I think of Christian religion as western culture, which consists of many values, which some good (in theory: loving your neighbor) but also many "bad" (Views on specific gender roles in society; inexeptence of homosexuals...). As for traditions, I personally see no value in them and find them silly. My question is: Does culture benefit anyone or would it be better to reevaluate your values based on science and facts (with the goal to firstly minimize suffering for ALL people and secondly to maximize happiness for ALL people) and not base them on how things (kind of arbitrarly/randomly) turned out in the past.
The stereotypes of white people here were not about white people but specific cultures, which is also disrespectful no matter the color.
You're literally making fun of these culture as you go through this..
Everyone fucking wore dreads, end of discussion. Fuck off idiots who don't know their history.
You know what the perfect solution to this is? Nationalism. This way no ones feelings are hurt
I'm just happy that your arguments have gotten better in your more recent videos. In fact, here it is not even an argument, but more just trying to agree with everyone and sit on the fence without ever engaging the actual issues which are the foundation of the appropriation debate - how can you have solidarity with mixed cultures. You dismiss or are ignorant of the actual debates and tiptoe around all the issues to create a boring and trite video. In fact, now that I have seen a few of your videos I notice your rhetorical style is to just discuss various views and never talk about the actual issues, that way you never offend by taking a side. I suppose you are making the videos to figure out the topics yourself, and you are getting better, so there is that.
I'm 5 vids in, you're so smart and talented.
Halloween costumes are supposed to be Horror-based, not just fancy dress.  Also stop appropriating Oíche Shamhna from us Celts :P
Cultural appropriation is a fact it is necessary for society to evolve to claim anything else is regressive BS. That said racial stereotypes is bad. And however you feel about appropriation of culture you must accept it. If you refuse to do so you should describe yourself as the ethnic fascist that you are. This very idea is taken word for word out of white nationalistic propaganda (and black Haiti I believe), in the 1930s the nazis actually created and enforced laws forbidding this appropriation.
Boring bullshit. Wannbe political activism simulation.
4:56 That's "Chakrulo," one of the most famous Georgian "table songs." Literally, and ironically, you've appropriated Caucasian music.
This is the best video I've seen on the subject so far. You addressed both sides of the argument really well :)
Your position, as stated at the start of the video, was that "unequivocally, cultural appropriation is always wrong," but then you presented a very watered down notion of cultural appropriation (so watered down that it does not admit of any of the common examples of cultural appropriation that people discuss). Moreover, the problem you point out with Led Zeppelin, as you say, is that they profited from the work of other people without giving credit (i.e., the problem was not cultural appropriation (?)). I do not understand why do you describe your position as saying that "cultural appropriation is always wrong."
ok.. like good video but why the hell did you choose to open with: you, a caucasian american wearing mexican day of the dead makeup as a part of your video ??? about how mockery is bad!? Like what you're doing is not appropriation, it's using a culture as a plot point in your video and makes everything you say seem extremely hypocritical and I honestly questioned if this video was facetious a few times.  Look but besides that one rlly fucking weird thing, the video was super smart, and just spot on, and i just think that was an extremely ill thought out move lol
I don't agree with the exclusive cultural ownership you're pushing at all. If people want to copy elements of other cultures, fine, it's all good. Unleash the creative spirit and fuck the censors on the left. Sometimes you're really just a bunch of joyless authoritarians. That's very uncool. And no I don't care about causing offence. People are welcome to parody British culture all they want, and trust me they do.
I always thought leftist was the idea that the cultures should mix and get along. Not anymore I guess
when you mention hindu mystics there's a georgian (caucasian) folk song caressing my ears, not hindu
How do I message you on Facebook? What's your name? You're one of my favorite YouTubers and I would like to talk to you. Mostly about dysphoria. I saw you go through That, me too, and I'm starting my transition. 5 days on estrogen :)
The red skins mascot and name was created by a group of Native Americans learn your sports culture
I think the main issue is a lack of definition.  Also, a Viking is an occupation not a race or ethnicity.  It'll be like saying knights or samurai are ethnic groups.
So this is more than a year late but I am not sure I understood your point. The whole Led Zeppelin case is bad because of plagiarism right? Because they didn't give proper credit? Does that mean you define cultural appropriation as taking parts of other cultures and plagiarising it?
Americans... you don't know anything
This is the first time I have heard someone on the internet share my views on cultural appropriation. Apart from the fact that I do not seem cultures mixing as a bad thing I also do not understand how people are so easily offended. I am from Germany and if I saw someone from an entirely different culture wear leather trousers, eat sauerkraut and prance around singing the german national anthem I would find it a little strange maybe, but mostly hilarious. Maybe as someone having grown up in a largely privileged lifestyle I am less sensitive to such maters, but I still think the intent counts more than just being offended by everything.
Ek immi hwitaz manniz auk ek ne immi midi þez.
the thing abt white people w dreadlocks is that our hair doesnt work well with that kinda style bc its not the right texture and gets really fuckin gross really easy. i mean if ya take care of it right go the fuck ahead but if youre not then what the fuck are ya even doing
You always seem to provide the best and most reasonable observations to most videos you produce. If more were like you then social justice wouldn't be such a laughable subject. Fell compelled to support you on Patreon though I can't really part with much.
Best video I’ve seen on this topic.   I’m black and for my part, most of the examples of cultural appropriation I’ve seen are risibly petty and trivial. Regarding dreadlocks, I’ve known quite a few white people with dreadlocks and I honestly couldn’t give a shit. It’s not even a style I’d ever consider myself so who am I to tell another person what to do with their own hair?
I don't suppose the issue of white people with "dreadlocks" would just cease to exist if white people called them by their actual name, which is matted hair? People with dreadlocks have tight, kinky curls and people with matted hair have straight hair. The two hairstyles are taken care of differently, develop differently and have different cultural meaning. So while both can occur naturally to each hair texture, I believe that white people with straight hair who matt their hair on purpose are culturally appropriating. Even then, if you'd like to matt your straight hair because your ancestors did, well, don't call it dreadlocks and please realize that your ancestors probably didn't matt their hair for the same reasons people wear/have dreadlocks.
Sometimes you gotta look at stuff on a thing by thing basis.
ok, this one got me sold
Are black people allowed to surf or paddle kayaks? Can white people? What happens if an Inuit takes up surfing - do we need to decide which minority is most oppressed so we can’t track who can use what elements of someone else’s culture?
I still think you shouldn't join the white lives matter protest after indigenous peoples take the continent back.... say thank you because then people will have a better quality of life again!!!
Well I disagree with having a white person who claims to be "SJW" telling people what they should and shouldn't be offended about or that we should "ease up" on being offended. Black people get fired from their jobs and kicked out of school for wearing locs. Locs are deeply ingrained in all Black culture, not just amongst Rastafarians, and yet we get punished for wearing our hair in ways that are most natural to our unique texture. I don't want to see white people wearing locs just because they think it's a trend while Black people have to suffer for it.  I also disagree with his music stance. They most certainly ARE distinct difference between Black and White music. Black people all of the world (including Black Americans) have their own culture and have created their own music out of struggle. To have white or other non-black people then steal that music and use it to profit, when they don't even understand what that music was born out of let alone respect the culture - that is a problem.
Oh, playing the Beavis and Butt-Head song by Bob Marley <3
How about everybody just get along and enjoy each others culture.
Wow this video is a lot worse than all your others
Amo tu español UwU
I think that preventing others especially White people from being influenced by other cultures denies these cultures an equal footing in the global marketplace of ideas. I also think culture is about self expression, the more people engaged with it the better. I also think that white middle class people in Western countries have the most free time on average to engage with hobbies or cultural items. So I think denying every white person the right to engage with a culture denies that culture a chance to influence relatively  privileged people and more likely than not to stifle that culture.
Finally, some competency
I think one of the things that made 'western culture' what it is is being cosmopolitan. To stop absorbing other cultures would be horrible. No pizza or noodles? Do I have to switch off the touch screen on my phone?  My general rule of thumb is. If its disrespectful then don't do it. If you are going to profit from it then don't do it. If you are going to incorporate it into your life in a meaningful way, go for it.
A good rule of thumb is that if it is an aspect of a closed culture/religion/etc and you arent a part of it, do not use parts of it, no matter how innocuous you may think it is. Another idea that is important, but to a lesser extent is to analyze the historical power dynamics between your culture and the one you are interested in
"When I had dreadlocks I thought I was being super spiritual you guys! And then I realized spirituality is a bunch of shit and religion is a lie, even religions made by brown people."  Possibly the best soundbite you've ever given us.
Fuck that black mirror episode. Made me have literal nightmares.
LMFAO I sort of agree the costumes are kind of racist especially if they were mixed in like that. However I disagree with cultural appropriation being wrong or racist if it were the everyone on the planet is now racist by default lol
I have come to the conclusion Cultural appropriation doesn't really exist and it is actually two things lumped together, which are A) racist stereotypes (halloween costumes) and B) White people borrowing (and sometimes fucking up) other cultures. This could be interpreted so vaguely that anything perceived to be from another culture is suddenly cultural appropriation. This is white people with dread, yoga, minority religions, fashion, food, anything and its really dumb to claim that this is inherently harmful.
Someone's probably mentioned it already, but the ancient Celts wore dreadlocks, and a form of dreadlock called the Polish Plait (basically one big fukken lock) was worn by European nobility in some countries.  Are most white people with dreads taking that as their inspiration?  Almost certainly not.  But some of them probably are.  I'm not gonna question every person with White Guy Dreads on why they have dreadlocks, but the Indian/Rasta/indigenous peoples thing isn't an "every time" thing, and I think that's important enough to at least warrant mentioning.  Like you said, there's a lot of nuance to this discussion that's easy to gloss over or miss for just one person.
you cant "appropriate" someone's culture... to appropriate something means the original group/culture cant use what is being appropriated after it has been appropriated... which isn't possible. Example: One person can wear dreadlocks without removing the ability to wear dreadlocks from another person.
Nick, you are vile.  Pamppered, priviledged, whiny man BOY. WAAAAA.WAAAAA. I AM A MAN WHO FEELS LIKE A WOMAN!!!!!WAAAAH, I HAVE THE RIGHT TO STEAL EVERY PENNY ALLOCATED TO WOMEN AND CHILDREN OF COLOR.   WAAAAAAH, WAAAAH, AS A WHITE, PRIVILEGED MAN I HAVE THE RIGHT TO WOMEN'S RESTROOMS, SHELTERS, AND PRISON CELLS!!!!!!!DISGUSTING DELUDED WHITE PRIVILEDGED MAN
Wow this vid actually challenged my thought process in terms of this debate, I don’t agree with you on everything but it’s nice to see someone on the left using logic to argue.
I remember that there was this one girl at my school who said that white people with dreads should be outlawed. tbh she wasn’t really smart because how on earth would you be able to make a hairstyle illegal for supposedly appropriating it when it’s a style that belongs to many cultures? In my opinion, people should wear whatever they want
I may not agree completely or with everything you say on this video, but I recently discovered your channel and you are fucking great!
"Nobody cares about you and your hypothetical problems" sums up my whole attitude about anti-sjw Youtube.
If a white person doesn’t brush their hair it does Matt and naturally turn into dread locks... and that it has originated from multiple cultures over history and has been depicted in Ancient Greece as well as many other places from Europe to Africa to Asia ect  ☺️
7:16 Stevieee<33
My issue with white dreads is that they're really just mats. They can't be properly washed like afro-textured dreads can, and destroy the hair permanently. They perpetuate the belief of whites like my family that all dreads are the result of bad hygeine.
No-one owns culture, and therefore it cannot be appropriated. "Cultural appropriation" is therefore a meaningless phrase. Also, culture =/= race.
"Don't ask what's in these jars" 😂
Rastafarianism is an ethnocentric religion, I am a Jamaican, my parents Rastafarian, It makes sense for African Americans to have dreadlocks in the context of Rastafarianism because they are part of the African Diaspora, I am against white people with dreadlocks but would never tell one of them to change their hairstyle because I have no right to tell other people to change their appearance. I know many of my friends are also very much against it because their hair does not generally knot properly and they do not generally know how to take care of it. There are levels of "cultural appropriation" that I am more against. Especially considering how easy it would be for white people to not do that one thing. It's kinda like when white people say "I should be able to say the N-word" despite the fact they can use almost any other words and not have to deal with the problem of offending people. (P.S. I have dreads)
some black people argued with me about my braids, saying they are african, but they are in fact not african. they are atebas, or tsika wich means "pilgrim braids". they are usually coming from the hindu culture / buddhism (the guys with no hair but a braid. , mine is not really a tsika, because, well i'm not a monk, it doesn't displays the usual colors or materials, and i would never claim i'm an hindu or buddhist monk. as i said, i loved the idea of those braids, because i travel a lot and it is a kind of personal path for me. not religious.
Lil Wayne totally pulled a Donald Trump on Black Lives Matter lol.
Segregation. That's the word. I recall being properly pissed after being told by a social-media-image that I'm not allowed to eat "Asian"(Bit broad, innit? Their words not mine) food.   Deep at it's core, the Cultural Appropriation debate contains a lot of important points, but mostly, it's just about racism.
I’m not really sure why you felt the need to add your white opinion into this topic. Please leave covering cultural appropriation to the people whom it affects. Many POC have already done it quite thoroughly. (You even show a clip of Kat Blaque covering this very topic in your video.)  Also, hipster racism is still racism. If you’re dressing up in mockery of showing that it’s racist, you’re still being racist.   Not to mention the problematic way you depicted Black women in this video.
Dreadlocks are also traditionally chinese as well, also eric clapton could be mentioned as a white blues musician especially when his racist remarks prompted the rock against racism event in Britain which did not feature any rock bands
I believe the line between cultural appropriation and appreciation is that appropriation happens when there is some element of colonizing above. When an idea is attributed to a culture, it gives them the power to control its representation in the minds of people. For example, when hip hop is said to be coming from the black community, it means that the black community has the ability to control how other people view it. Cultural appropriation reduces that power by breaking the connection. This means losing the ability to control how other people view said culture. Power over a culture is important is because it gives status, respect, some degree of control over their lives. Take away that power, you lose leverage.  So when a cultural majority argues why can't they simply take a piece of a culture without some understanding or refuse to acknowledge it's origins, then it means reducing a minority's already disadvantaged status in society. You are;   (a) reducing the perception of said culture into a caricature because you'll be able to cherry pick parts of the culture without consequence from people who understand the origins of said culture  or/and  (b) determining the limits of what the culture should be as an outsider, almost akin to the logic behind colonialization. That an idea can only be as good as how the cultural majority posits it should be nor can it be improved without their input.  or/and  (c) taking away agency from the cultural minority to shape how other people view them. This means if they don't have additional cultural value, then they don't have something to show to the world, they can't profit from it, they can't better their lives from their hard work but suffer to see someone else living through it.  All of this is not an argument to say that one person cannot learn or be part of another culture. What it is saying is that in the process of doing so, one should acknowledge and respect the origin of it and remind people of its origin because as a cultural majority, you will be the default representation of an idea to outsiders.  TLDR: You can appreciate, but stop acting as if an idea is yours in the first place and the latter is appropriation.
Zeppelin is overrated
Both the titular sets of protagonists/heroes in the two Hindu mythological tales go through a phase of wearing dreadlocks when they're exiled. That is of course, beside 100% of all Gurus, mystics, holy hermits etc., being depicted with dreads. So In that sense, the Indian sentiment behind dreads seems to be one of functionality - not having to care for one's hair, either because they think it doesn't matter (like with the hermits and ascetics; it has to be noted that neglecting hair care is one way to make dreads), or because they think it isn't a priority (exiled princes in mythology expected to survive in a forest for years)
What about the Irish Famine caused by the English? Irish people were considered inferior to Englishmen in those days so really cultural appropriation or racism can be found in many places and instances in history. Nowadays it's a different story.
"Then I realised that spirituality is a bunch of shit and religion is a lie". I can't work out whether this is in irony mode or not. What does it even mean? I suppose, this being the internet, I'll have to give the benefit of the doubt and assume it's an ironic pisstake of I'm-atheist-therefore-I'm-immediately-your-intellectual-superior internet culture.
My bf was a white person with dreads. When I found out I didn't love him any less. Should I be ashamed? I don't thinks so.
These are bad faith questions. Except #1
I personally believe no one has autonomy over a dress code or action or hair do because of the circumstances of their birth. Culture isnt owned by anyone, its predominant in certain regions and can be treated however one wishes. People are not culture, people can appreciate, dislike, identify with culture, however they cannot control it.
The Led Zeppelin thing's a great point but I think the big problem with cultural appropriation is that it's usually symptomatic of underlying racial prejudices. Even if Led Zeppelin did credit their influences the fact that the music became popular only after white people started playing it suggests that once a culture gets divorced of its originating race and adopted by white people it becomes a lot more marketable (the same goes for stuff like yoga etc), which definitely has sort of racist undertones.
I'm pretty sure the Rastas got the dreadlocks from the Shivaite Hindu sadhus. The sadhus didn't stop wearing dreadlocks, they still do it. The British took a lot of Asian Indians to the Caribean to work. Rastafarians smoke marijuana and call it "Ganja." Shivaite Sadhus smoke Hashish and call it "Ganja" after the Ganges river, which they believe flows through Lord Shiva's dreadlocked hair. I rest my case.
I love you but i dont think i want a white person telling me how offended i need to be by "yoga" classes. Oh no, your appropriative "yoga" class got cancelled? How oppressive it must be for white people. Woe white people, they couldnt profit as much as they wanted 😦
I still believe that is extremly violent and unnaceptable to intimidate a stranger in the street because their hair offended you.  Also, i think it comes without saying that everybody should be able to look  whatever way they feel like.  That being said... i won´t deny that some people tend to be quite unsensitive when they take or use things from a culture they know nothing about.   I can totally see how it is offensive and annoying. But naming it cultural appropiation. Sounds a bit hyperbolic to me.  Also, race is not synonnimous of culture, you really never know. What about a white kid being rise by a black family that live their entire live in black communities? Doesn´t he have a right to his own culture?  Honestly, i don´t really care about people "appropiating" my culture, as a latin american man, i have never felt offended by it. ISo i probably can´t relate to this problem as much, but... at the same time, isn´t everybody free to enjoy the best that every culture has to offer? It´s not like you are chained to your race, you can always read, travel, know people.  You know, experience things. The problem is not your race, is why you are doing what you are doing.
I don't know how much it means, but, as someone who grew up in a multicultural environment, I always draw the line of cultural appropriation by asking two questions: Who benefits economically? and Do I understand the context of this well enough to apply it correctly?   I also notice that when discussions around cultural appropriation comes up, there's a missing discussion around cultural fusion. It's not uncommon for cultures to come together and something altogether different comes out that doesn't really belong to just one entirely. It's one of those things I haven't figured out an explicit rule of thumb for yet, but I feel like I know it when I see it.
I like your channel because you recognize the exact length of my attention span xoxo
I like that there was clip from "Nymphomaniac II"' in the video.
A group being a majority doesn't make any of this less acceptable.
Forget Zeppelin, Eric Clapton's the appropriating wanker. Makes millions from copying black music whist supporting neo nazi organisations. Fuck Clapton. FFS at least respect the cultures you borrow from.
In cases of clothing or dreads or artistic style I find these idea's feel too much like a religion. lots of blind faith in your beliefs and lots of backing up biases like a conspiracy theorists without really having a grasp in the opinions and views of the people you think are offended. This is one of the topics i think we agree more than disagree though.
A big problem with the whole dreads argument is that dreads really don't work in white people's hair, that shit rots. It's more of a tangled mess of knotted hair rather than the dread*lock* which only works with black hair which has different structure.   As for cultural appropriation, I think it's a bigger thing than just white people with dreads, they're not really the problem? The problem is big companies finding authentic businesses like Mayan Weavers and taking their genuine products, mass producing them, and running the culture into the ground for profit. White people with dreads is just a good way of putting the argument more simply.  The main point here is that you shouldn't blame people of colour for getting angry at this stuff if they do, you should be angry at the racists, white supremacists and assholes who have made race relations soooo fucking difficult for everyone involved. Really the whole conversation about cultures and appropriation should be kept til later when racism isn't such a big thing as it has been and is going to be for fucking centuries.
So what if a _black_ band had given themselves songwriting credits for old blues songs? Would that still have been cultural appropriation?
It's a real shame that the absurdist regressive leftists get all the attention these days when there are so many sensible leftists such as yourself out there.
Justin Bieber should be criticized for ANY action he ever takes, no matter what it is.  He is the worst shit on the planet.  Sorry...   I just really hate his "music".  Lil Wayne too.  He's a piece of shit.  And Miley Cyrus....    GODDAMN, WHY ARE YOU SHOWING SUCH SHITTY "MUSICIANS"!?
Imitation is the sincerest form of flattery that mediocrity can pay to greatness?
I like you better as a guy. I hope you wake up from this narcissistic fame-induced transsexualism. You don't even reach the standard of autogynephilia.
this guy isn't from spain https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R0aoe5gxW3A
As usual, you did a good job of covering many nuances of a topic. I like that you say the offence taking should be dialed back a bit.  How far to dial back the offence taking seems to be where we differ. We do dress as caricatures for Halloween. The degree of offence taking has gone way over the top. We are entertained by caratures if white people, yet we have white people getting offended on behalf of people who do not agree about what is offensive. It has gotten to the point that not only people are being taught to search for reasons to be offended and even told what they aught to be offended by.  With good intention, good people are causing division.  Not all native americans are offended by the names of ball teams.  ALL Halloween costumes are a caricatures. Get over it. Let people enjoy life. Have fun instead of looking for reasons to be offended, and telling others what to do or think.
I agree 100% with this. This is exactly what I have been arguing, though arguably less eloquently.  Thank you for giving me some good phrasings I can use next time :) (black person with dreadlocks and no knowledge about Rastafarian history or culture :p )
Fucking right! Nailed it!
Were the mixing pot of the world tho right? Ill dress up however the hell i want
White with dreds? Who gives a fuck
People can dress as whatever they want you damn smowflake
Re. Lending credit: Who would the artists lend credit to? In most cases it is unclear as to where the cultural thing came from. Like in the case with Led Zeplin and their blues influence.
Religion is a lie even if it's invented by brown people. Damn straight.
Omg 100000% agree
I actually like this video and agree with its points.
Compliment and then a complaint: I love your distinction between cultural mockery and cultural appropriation. But aren't you doing cultural mockery throughout this video with the face paint? It weakens your message and makes me not want to share this video, which is too bad, because other than that it's really good.
I
I think people get caught up worrying and trying to think cultural appropriation from an individual perspective, when it's really about a wide social issue that has a lot to do with capitalist exploitation. A person can be culturally insensitive and, in the worst cases, racist - but I don' think an individual appropriates anything.
Again very nice.  And I think I am getting used to your get ups. FUCK!
What is the name of the song starting at 4:56? It's an ideal song for this topic, mixing Georgian and Indian folk music with modern beats :)
DAYUM contra yours Musical skill is on point  contraPOINT
As a leftist myself, I think we need a line here. I feel soon speaking another language would be "cultural appropriation" I find "cultural appropriation" to be a bullshit term altogether. There is, liking and appreciating other cultures and integrating them into your society/life, because of that, or because they are close to each other,  and then there is racism. The USA neoclassicism "culturally appropriates" ancient Rome who "Culturally appropriated" ancient Greece. Christianity appropriated paganism in Europe in order to make Christianity work. The Quran has Bible references in it for the same reason. Hell, if aliens come we'll integrate what we like from hem and they will do the same, this is how societies work. A small example: Pizza does not originate in the USA. :)  Blackfacing a white model for a photo shoot in Africa instead of highering a black one is not "cultural appropriation"  Making a chocolate and naming it "Litlle ni**er" is not "cultural appropriation."  It's fucking racist. Let's call it what it is.  Eating sushi. Or having this and that hair, this and that pattern in your clothes etc.. is not "Cultural appropriation" nor it is racist. it's how societies work.  The numerical system is Arabic - should white people stop using math because of political correctness? (I'd like to add on the Zeppelin problem - Doing this is shit, regardless who wrote the songs. )  Mocking other people's culture is either racist, xenophobic, or ignorant at best. And it's not okay even if said culture is white, imagine that. But since white people aren't victims of constant racism, I am not sure we can consider lame logos and mascots a  problem for white people (Especially if they are made by white people?). Not on the same level as they are about people of color at least. This is where the difference comes from. It might be xenophobic or ignorant, but it's not racist.  It's not okay to just say "It doesn't count cause they are white."  without a better explanation. Especially when you claim you want equality. And it's important not to think this way because there are instances where it is a problem - building a sculpture of a toilet and naming it a certain country is one real-life example I can recall. But I can tell the people angry at that "set yourself on fire and die, cause no one gives a shit"  cause they are white and they should shut the fuck up, right? Well, it doesn't sound right to me.
Haha! I bought my copy of Rustavi Choir's 1989 album Georgian Voices, whose track Chakrulo seems to be the music beginning at around the 5min mark (during the mockery of Tower Records), at a Tower Records store in Atlanta Georgia in the early 90s. Good stuff. Love these videos.
Interesting. Some of the early stuff you identify as racist...well...I might identify it as "crass", "stupid"..."ignorant"...or "arseholes" but for racist I'd need to know them and their motivations a bit better before I called them that. Sorry if this muddies the water. Love your work by the way.
I agree there is nothing inherently wrong a culture borrowing something from another culture. But ContraPoints is correct that there is line between caricaturization and cultural appropriation and cultural appropriation can go to far.
Mmmh I think the problem is more with the braids that with the Dread. Dread are universally seen as unkept and dirty, while braids might are neat an clean but can be seen as a gangsta thing if you are a black dude or like a beautiful hairstyle if you are a white woman (I heard that's a backlash in the workplace for black women that use that style, but I don't have any first hand experience, so I trust is true but I cannot say it for certain)
You have articulated my feelings towards this subject better than I can.
Thank you! I never believed in cultural appropriation, at least, not how most of the left puts it( And I say that as someone who is openly a left-wing who openly believes that the term "Social Justice Warrior"... Considering the contexts where it is used, should be treated as a compliment, not a insult ). Please, allow me to explain my own logic.  So, if a white person uses a symbol of a non-white culture, it is usually because of one of two reasons: A: Because they do not understand the cultural roots of that what they are using, or B: Because they understand it, and have a sincere interest on that culture. Fairly rarely will you see someone wearing a cultural symbol specifically to mock it( Like, who wears dreads "ironically"? ), and on the few cases you do see it( Aka: What you showed on the beggining of the video )... It is really damn obvious and not actually what is being discussed half of the time. Main point being, in either the A or B example, what is the message that is passed when you insult, mock or deride someone from using a symbol of another culture?  "You have no place amongst our culture! You shall never have a place amongst our culture! Our culture is our own, and a white like you will never, and should never pretend to understand it! You should stick amongst the other whites and do white things, because you are white, and you are not entitled to have any interest on other cultures..." Now, this may SOUND like I am complaining about white people being victins of "racism"... But I am getting at somewhere bigger here. Basically: You are activelly punishing someone, for taking interest in your culture. Meaning, you are encouraging then NOT to know more about black history and culture, you are encouraging then to see black culture as something completely alien, and perhaps the most important part, you are encouraging then to only know black culture, from what white people have to say. ... And let me tell you something: What white people have to say on black culture? It isnt nice.  Summarising, I think this kind of behavior activelly encourages white people to become racist, or at least to show no interest whatsoever on black culture and as such, never learning about their culture, it becomes easier for then to believe the bullshit of white supremacists and believe black people are just a bunch of savages with no culture. Before anyone comes ranting at me: Yes, I am aware of the fact I am white and I did not actually experienced prejudice because of my race. I am aware you all know about this subject a lot better then I do. So, if you want to rationally explain why  I am wrong instead of insulting me...
Fuck you contra and fuck your feelings no one cares
My issue with white people wearing dreads, is that they usually do it as a way of counter culture, in the negative sense. You mostly see these specimens throwing molotov cocktails at some protest, consuming drugs at some festival or having a gap year abroad slacking in some foreign country. But the thing is that dreads are something normal for black people, something that should be part of normalcy, but is instead seen in such a negative light because of white people.
We need to be able to make fun of each other by stereotyping and playfully mocking other cultures and peoples. As long as there is no malicious intend it's all good fun.
Cringe
Is it cultural appropriation if we use algebra and the concept of Zero? How about if we read Plato and Aristotle? In fact isn't learning and appreciating all cultures in some cases Good? Frankly I think the idea of cultural appropriation is bull....
Fidel Castro sucks
I like most of your videos but you spent like half the video defending yourself. I think we whites having dreadlocks might not be technically appropriation but it is culturally insensitive because a white person with dreads is seen as cool but a black person with dreads is seen as a criminal and discriminated against. So whites having dreads is using white privilege to have something that is really culturally more relevant to black people, yet black people become more of a target for discrimination if they have dreads.
After watching your video, I still don't understand exactly what people even mean by C. A. nor when it could be legitimatzly considered problematic.
@ whites saying their hair """" naturally dreads"""": wash your damn head. or your gunna get mold. im dead serious.
ive never seen a white person look good in dreads. like ever.
As anti white cucks go , you're alright
How about do what you want and if someone has a problem you fight
The celts wore dreds.
I actually was just having this conversation with a friend. You see, I don't fully agree with cultural appropriation. Rather, I believe in Cultural MISappropriation. Which means, if you like a certain style, or a certain food etc. and you wear it etc., so long as it is realistic, and not done in a stereotypical and degrading way, than I don't have a problem with it. When it comes to more complex things, such as full out tribal garb or particular stuff with a complex history, I recommend doing some research on it first. So your cultural appropriation is truly cultural appreciation, and not cultural MISappropriation. For example: you like the "dot" on Indian women's foreheads. Do some research. Find out the "dot" is called a Bindi, and that one of its traditional purposes is protection. I personally think that the whole issue around Cultural (MIS)appropriation is more relevant to the wealthy and powerful- like politicians, celebrities, etc. Those that are not the average joe/jane. Because, yes I get my box braids, but I get no profits or gain from them- other than my own personal happiness. If I was Miley Cyrus however, than that would get more of a base for it. Plus, cultures mix. I MYSELF am living proof of that! (Mixed). And if you want to be a true staunch advocate of cultural (MIS)appropriation , then you need to stop doing ALL things : vampire, werewolf, gypsie (to name a few). - Those are MY people. (Romanian). Following it to the T means that we must go back to living in caves etc. because cultural appropriation would not stop at style. It would technically fall into technological, medical, scientific, etc. discoveries as well. Do I believe that it exists- yes to a degree. But that it is blown highly out of proportion. That's my opinion though.
Dreadlocks, every culture had dreadlocks remember before brushing our hair? Cultural appropriation of neanderthals!!!!
This guy is such a jackass. He lumps in Mexican stereotypes with Amerindian ones and proclaims that it's wrong for hu'wite people to appropriate a caricature of Injuns because of white people conquest of America. And where does this moron suppose most of Mexican culture comes from? Montezuma? No, it comes from a group of people who slaughtered far more natives than the British, French and certainly not the Irish. Mexican culture is more or less a close delineation of Spanish culture. So it's white people appropriating other white people culture.  So this guy is just pedaling generic fuck white people rhetoric. White people are evil, and any perceived victim group is holy to the degree to which they are supposedly victimized. This is just trite garbage. Behold everyone. This is what the better part of a decade of higher philosophical education has produced.
Why does contra look a lot like Caveira?
This is one of my favorite Contra Points videos. It really shows an ability to critically look at issues without running to the standard talking points of the right or left.   I wonder if she would still agree with this nowadays. I hope she comments on it... but I’m also afraid to hear if she’s totally gone appropriation-is-bad. Cultural appropriation call outs are one of the most authoritarian, traditional, and repressive elements of new leftists.
The Indians with whom I have had contact seemed to feel happy that their culture was being exported, albeit imperfectly, to the west. I believe the poor sitar playing on the Beatle's records causes more cringing than yoga classes. What I did hear complaints about was not the Hindu culture being exported voluntarily to the west, but the western (perhaps I should say British) culture that was imposed by imperialism. It would seem to me that there is a problem with applying lessons learned from the North American experience being applied to other situations, assuming that the cultural and political dynamic works the same way. This is in danger of being, ironically, a form of cultural imperialism itself.
Did the Beatles invade Cuba in a yellow submarine?
My problem with some Africans claiming exclusive rights to dreadlocks is that the Rastafarians' dreadlocks who started send trend in the African culture were inspired by the Jewish Nazirites of the Bible. If that white guy who was harassed for heaving dreadlocks was part Jewish, he would have more of a claim to dreadlocks than the African woman harassing him.
Tower Records is still a thing in Ireland!
Dreadlocks are just matted hair all Cultures races have had them in history.  it is that most have started cleaning  and cutting  their often
Very thoughtful!
No, it's not cultural appropriation when black Americans do Caribbean accents, because cultural appropriation is a figment of your retarded imagination.
Why is it so awful to mock other cultures though? It's probably rude and insensitive, but people don't have to always be sensitive and respectful. Sometimes people aren't nice, and that's ok
Honest question: why is it always white people in the examples? Is it cool if asians wear an indian feather head dress on halloween?
It's all in your hands.
Canta más
The plausible SJW the exception
I see the typical SJW crap , we change the Definition of Simple language term like Racism to specifically exclude anything we do from it . You remind me of How Bush era politician tries to redefine war to better fit so  a war of aggression is no a preemptive war  You see i am more of the Chomsky kind of guy , If you're going to come up with a New standard , apply it across the board , if you want to be taken seriously , and not as a Dangerous Self centrist hypocrite . Just don't claim that part of culture is yours and enjoy it , If you think those Reggae obsessed dreadlock  Whitemen of the 80ies aren't more Sympathetic to Black issues you need to get out of your bubble  And yes Redskin is a racial slur , it should be changed . at stopped at 2:00 i don't think you have anything of value to say . Keep that crossing-dressing thing , it's unique . That's the only positive thing i can say it of this video .
I have a simple rule don't claim it yours , enjoy it , end of the story  .
You might find this article interesting: https://en.gegenstandpunkt.com/culture.html
At Esalen they had a small garden they called "Buddha's Garden", and it included a small Buddha statue. Evidently, someone complained so they replaced the statue with a small bowl of water. A large part of why I go to Esalen is for the cultural appropriation. I want to do the Tai Chi, Meditation, Yoga, Akido, and any other interesting or potentially beneficial practices. I'm not sure why they drew the line at the statue.  That said, I'm not going to blow a blood vessel in my eye over it either.
Define "spirituality"
am lesbian and d would smash (trans but stilll smash)
I've concluded that I do not believe in cultural appropriation.
Yeah man, my mixed black and white friend """"""passes""""" as white so she gets lots of shit online whenever she has dreads (her hair does it pretty naturally) from people assuming shes "appropriating" I wanna tell them it's not so black and white, and in this case, it is actually both!!
ah... the contrapoints video I disagree with entirely...
thank you for explaining my opinion to me in a way i could never even formulate in my own mind properly let alone articulate
¡SEÑORITAS PICANTES!
REEEEEEEEEEEEEEEE ELDER FUTHARK WAS USED BY PRE VIKING GERMANIC PEOPLE
Wait the Beatles never actually bombed Cuba right?? I'm confused.
Not convinced, sorry but I still dont understand the issue in this. Why do people care? Maybe is just an US American thing.
I am a Hispanic female and I am not offended if some white bimbo wears a bad mexican stereotype. Maybe because I grew up in Mexico and insulting eachother with racist and distasteful jokes is considered an artform. Now I am not saying it's okay to insult the first person you see on the street but my golden rule in my personal life is: You can make fun of me as long as I can make fun of you.
How do you make that I don't hate you?
Did I hear some V A P O R W A V E ?
What's in those jars?
All that "spirit" means is literally "breath", and breath is pretty much inseparable from life. So I think that spirit and spirituality is not really bullshit, that only happens when people conflate the idea of spirit with that of a "soul". Most of the problems with this sort of thing are just people using vague terms with lots of metaphysical baggage, which they never though through because they assumed it was common-sense. YMMV
I always took Cultural Appropriation to mean 'don't turn other peoples things into a profit and take credit' and 'always try to understand other peoples things, they're not just a fasion statement to everyone'.  Apparantly I don't know anything though, because my former freind insists she is allowed to collect tacky knock off dreamcastchers because she loves Disneys Pocahontas..... 😖
really good video!
Culture belongs to no one
Dreads came from the Vikings and they are white so fuck off dumbass social justice warrior
You're an idiot
white ppl can't even have locs bc their hair doesn't curl up to the point where they lock together. their texture just doesn't do that and has to get extremely dirty inorder for thair hair to MATTE (not loc). it shows in humans and even dogs. it's offensive but also just unhealthy so they shouldn't do it.
Where are the black people with very straight hair?
Cocaine and steroids, I don't get paranoid You are not a gangster, you're a fuckin errand boy  huh? HUH? anyone get it?
I agree; Tower Records is soooo 2006. Capitol's where it's at :)
whats the song at 5:00?
I often wonder how the average SJW would fare trying to "deconstruct" true genre-melters like Frank Zappa or Beck. Think it might wind up melting their brains? And would that necessarily be a bad thing?
I am loving your videos! This was great.
* snore *
I am confused to see complex topics treated in complex ways without the sense of moral absolutism based on ideology. This is a rare way to do things. Another good video.
I think the issue with cultural appropriation in art is the primarily caused by capitalism. The ideal artistic society would be one that ironically doesn't provide any benefit for artists. In such a society, the problem of exploitation or profit off of another peoples' culture wouldn't exist.
Contra, religion is definitely 100% shit but though I am an atheist, spirituality is important to me. To me, spirituality is just understanding and feeling my fundamental connection to all things and respecting life.  I have a good spattering of Buddhist in my philosophy too. (Only secular and logical buddhist thought, of course). Please reconsider so you can feel this ecstasy of timeless connection.  (If simply a semantic difference, carry on!)
Gow can one "steal" a culture? Your "argument" on the indigenous peoples and the redskins boils down to "oppression olympics".
Oh my God! Fucking awesome! I'll never wear a Halloween costume again!
appropriation is such a hard topic to discuss because it's a kind of racism that doesnt seem that problematic until a bunch of people start doing it. like if you were the only white girl out there with box braids and corn rows then people probably wouldn't have a problem, but when a bunch of white girls do it it starts to seem a lot worse especially when you see magazines praising white celebs for "new" hairstyles that have been around for a while (kind of like the hair version of the zeplyn example). Im pretty darn white so i think it would be shitty to say that i understand what it's like to have a piece of my culture stolen because i dont and i probably never will,but i imagine it probably feels like when someone else steals your jokes or style or starts immitating you while simultaneously trying to pass it off as his own and that feels horrible so i can only imagine what it would feel like to have that done to your entire culture. i do think some people get mad about stuff thats harmless but id probably be on edge too if i felt my identity getting stolen and comodified, so i tend just to avoid stuff that might be seen as appropriation because i dont personally feel like something as trivial as getting cornrows for myself is worth potentially offending someone.
i generally cannot see why credit should be given for appropriating a certain trait or style etc. from a culture. I would get it if Zeppelin completely copied their songs (which i don't know, since i don't know anything about them at all) but if they simply copied their style or genre, then i see no problem with it.
I just don't get why you types think cultures trading customs and other sorts of things are bad and immoral.
Oh fuck off. No one owns culture. Stop whining.
Just checking if I understood the video:  1) Are white-people dreads cultural appropriation? I walked away feeling contrapoints was saying no. Correct me if I misunderstood.  2) About the Led Zeppelin songs that copied non-copy-righted material from other cultures: I guess I just don't understand how that hurt anyone? I don't think Led Zeppelin put much thought into it beyond "this isn't copy-righted," so I don't think they intended harm, but I guess intentions don't always matter when assessing the moral consequences.
Correction: The Vikings used the Younger Futhark, not the Elder Futhark. Literally Unwatchable!!!
I think cultural appropriation and cultural exchange has to be discussed in relation to history and present day reality. No one group has the ultimate ownership over ideas, fashions, traditions, food, dances, etc. But history and power dynamics matter.   Example: Most black Americans can list at least 3 European royal families they've learned about in our school system. Most White Americans know nothing about African royal families or any African country histories.   I think we can all agree that some exchanges are good.  Sushi is good (let's all enjoy it), samurai swords are awesome (let's gawk at them or collect them), but Ghost in a Shell movie with a White woman as the main character is terrible (let's stop doing that).   I think the anger comes when White people exclude people of color from their own stories. Or make fun of people of color for expressing their cultures, then turn around and profit from that culture.  Examples:  1) Black people with braids are viewed as threatening, White people with braids are seen as cool, fun, exotic, etc. (See ''Boxer Braids''),  2) Asian actors can have great Kung-Fu moves but no sex scenes, White guys with Kung-Fu moves gets all the sex
And BAM! Goldenone finally made it into regular videos:)
SO TRUE THO
Aw, I wanted to like this because I did really want to see a good argument for cultural exchange vs cultural appropriation but I feel like you kinda just brushed CA off with "[strawman argument] made by white people". And if you are certain you didn't, perhaps consider that Lena Dunham might not be the champion that nonwhite people want for their cause... In fact what you highlight with the "Lena Dunham sushi issue" is the issue of false white performative allyship, where white people make a big show of being against ____ social issue without caring to really understand it in order to give the palatable appearance of someone who does. Granted this is a huge issue that ultimately derails a lot of cultural appropriation arguments so maybe don't listen to white people on the topic, altho perhaps a video on "white people saying things to look 'woke' to other white people" might be a good video. Or would that be encroaching on self-parody? I'm sort of joking.   I also feel like the "only white people hated my hair" statement is an issue because of multiple reasons, of only which some I should go into as i'm gonna be late to work. One of those is that, well, I feel like you're pretending that black people feeling the need to not harass white strangers for the sake of their own safety is some ancient history. To be fair you did sort of address this briefly. Next, I feel like you're also ignoring the fact that during the time you had that hair it WAS a different social and political climate in the USA. I'm not saying that police slaying of black people didn't happen or was even less frequent but you couldn't really tune in to your daily Facebook Live feed of it like you can today. We're even numb to cold hard real numbers and statistics because "342 deaths" isn't nearly as shocking as witnessing one or even the aftermath of one. Because of that the public at large, including black people, was at the least CAPABLE of being a little more ignorant to the more dramatic effects of racial disparity. For better or for worse, that's very much in our faces now. Also, keep in mind that it's considered more rude in america to call someone racist than to be racist, so you'd better have a darn good reason for doing it. Lastly you HAVE to admit that there are probably a million factors that lead to you having sample biases more so than a few quick words can brush off.   Anyway, there's a lot more to this but maybe we'll meet someday and discuss this. I really hope you circle back to this issue someday in the future once you've heard more PoC and especially black voices chime in and no longer consider, ugh, Lena Dunham the representative of it.  Ugh why'd I make a comment on youtube, nobody will ever read it.
wtf is this, a liberal who actually has sane views on cultural appropriation?????? this must be too good to be true
Who gives a fuck about cultural appropriation
how many fucking languages do you speak
so what would you say to like... head dresses or bindi's being worn as fashion items. I honestly dont know what to think those.
Finally a video about culture appropriation that's not just "fucking sjws!!!!" the whole time
What's the video at 7:55 from?
As a Redskins fan myself, I'd have no problem if they changed the name to "Natives" or something of the sort. Hell, it'd still fit into the fight song. Haaaaiil to the Natiiiiiives, haaaaiiil victory!
So, in order for white people to be upset about racial caricatures about them, they have to go through genocide, first?  Dafuq?  Either is bad for all or none at all.
moldy-ass white hair that isn't supposed to lock having anything to do with black kinky hair that does and the hindu practice isn't even locs, it's an entirely different style made by using minerals and wax to bind hair into strips
There's nothing wrong with white people using black culture, but there is a problem with white people using black culture to "act black".  For example, when white people use "black" slang, or white musicians use "black" fashion or dance moves, they're often using them to signify "blackness", and with it, traits associated with "blackness", such as rebelliousness, sexual lasciviousness, hedonism, and primitiveness.  By using "blackness" as a proxy for these traits, they perpetuate stereotypes about what it means to be black, while denying actual black people the right to define their own identity.
This video is crazy on acid  I don't know how I got here  I'm probably not coming back lmao
I think the biggest problem with cultural appropriation is not Miley twerking, but rather the society that that celebrates it in a way that they didn't celebrate it for the eons that black women were doing the same thing. The fact that appropriation _can_ occur is the mirror that reflects social imbalances.
What's in the jars?
My main problem with cultural appropriation as a concept is that it seems to make people part of these strange culture units. I get that people have a cultural belonging, but I don't think cultures are somehow entities outside us that we latch on to, I just see them as umbrellas under which we categorize different cultural traditions, aesthetics and ideas. I think that cultural belonging is just a description of the kind of culture you consume and thus popularize.  So I don't really like the idea that people need to derive their worth from their culture, thus I don't think it should make sense for anyone to get offended if a culture is insulted. At least not when we're talking about ultimately trivial parts of culture, such as traditions and art, rather than more substantive and impactful things, like ideology and code of conduct.  I myself happen to be of nordic ancestry. At least I think that's mostly what I am. My light skin,  blue eyes, blond hair and being a citizen of Sweden would indicate it, but frankly I have no fucking idea if I have old or semi-recenti-ish ancestry anywhere else, and I don't want to know. I feel as if not knowing that helps give me a sense of not having too strong ties to any one ethnic(tribal) group. It's kind of the same with me proudly not knowing under what astrological constellation I'm born, I think that shit's silly, so in case anyone asks me, i'll be able to condescendingly tell them that their shit is so stupid that I don't even know what category of it I'd belong to.  Where was I? Right, I'm probably have some substantial old-norse heritage, but I don't give a shit if I see some goofy and ridiculous/downright insulting depiction of vikings, as long as I think the depiction is just for fun. I only care if you're trying to actually mock real people or if you're actually perpetuating meaningful substantial misunderstandings about a culture.  Maybe that's partially because the my security in my own privileged lifestyle dampens that blow, but I think we should all strive to not give a shit about those kinds of things. Unless we're talking about something on the level of those old depictions of black people with the jet black skin, crazy eyes and giant lips, which seem to be mocking and expressing disgust and contempt with a  group of actual people, rather than just some stereotypical depiction of a culture, I'm honestly not really sure anyone should care.  So if someone wears a cartoonishly stereotypic mexican outfit or some such ridiculous thing for Halloween, I'm not so much going to feel that that's insulting to anyone, as much as I'm going to be puzzled as to why they thought that would be an interesting costume, ore one that's thematically fitting with Halloween. If someone does a stereotypical depiction of a culture, then it probably is just that; a cartoonish caricature of a bunch of cultural baggage that incidentally is also associated with a group of actual people. But the culture itself cannot be offended. The fucking sombrero isn't going to catch feelings, and I don't really see why people who enjoy the rest of the culture the sombrero tends to go with ought to either.  I don't think you're part of a culture, you're just the consumer of it. It's kind of like brand loyalty, some people like certain game publishing companies, and this is recognized as something that should be absurd and it's accepted that brands and shit like that shouldn't be made personal. But such brand-loyalists as consumers are part of demanding and celebrating the titles that brand puts out, kind of like how I as a metal fan am part of consuming metal music and culture.  I would only get butthurt about someone mocking metal music if they seem to display an ignorance of what metal music is or can be, or if they're openly insulting. And even then I tend to feel that I'd be a bigger man for not caring. I don't give a shit if they do some cartoonish stereotypical depiction of metalheads, even though probably most of the people who like metal don't conform to the metalhead stereotypes(such as ways of dressing(including me)).  I can see why playing around with exaggerated and crude stereotypes is fun, and I don't think it needs to be taken seriously. So if someone wanna wear a stupid costume crudely based on a culture, I don't care. It could just be playing with exaggerations, and I'm fine with that.  Fuck this got long, there is no way anyone read this. Oh well, 10 internet point to anyone who did, I'm not cutting this magnificent comment down.
THANK YOU FOR TALKING ABOUT ZEPPELIN that shit is infuriating how they ripped off willie dixon so shamelessly
katereadsbooks brought me here, I loved your little "adios mujer" corrido realness.
Most native americans dont give a fuck about the Redskins name or character. If ppl are just having fun with no racist agenda then fuck off. Intentions matter.
Led Zeppelin put their own spin on these songs, doubtlessly. And nobody had copyrighted it before...
The kimono industry in Japan was recently saved by white people buying real authentic kimonos to wear. When I learned this fact, I started to wonder about cultural appropriation and where the line was. We could have completely lost the art of the kimono, which is a beautiful artistic tradition. But does this bring up the 'white savior' issue too?  I guess I'm saying, this is complicated, and we don't have answers, but without a discourse, we're not going to figure it out. So, thanks for the new thoughts to chew on. :3
Sociology has a term for when cultures mix, and exchange equally between each other, and that is diffusion. Diffusion is what a lot of people think cultural appopriation means but I think that's too wide a definition. Where the line is though does seem to me to be rather blurry. But here's what I think.  Diffusion happens between equal people groups, it's what happens when commerce is going on, when two groups begin to exchange back and forth and learn from one another, appreciating the value and beauty of each other's culture.   Equal being the operative word.  But what of cultural appropriation? I think this term has less to do with diffusion and more to do with colonization. Imperialist, colonialist cultures dominating other cultures then appropriating (aka stealing) their best cultural aspects (art, music, clothing, philosophy, even theology) and evolving from it, but giving nothing back at best and giving the worst of our culture back at worst (aka homophobia and transphobia becoming rampant in Africa after White European and American colonization)  So what is this we are doing when we focus on cultural appropriation and try to see where we might be stealing (just as racism, homophobia etc can be subconscious and systemic, so can this), and where we are engaging in an equal and worthy exchange, where they're getting back as good as they're giving, where we aren't using something from a culture we colonized and still are in the process of decolonization (dismantling the imperialist or racist structures of power differentials) or where they're gladly sharing with us something from their culture cause they want us to grow and evolve in our own culture (enthusiastic consent).   I think that term is key, decolonization.   The problem with white culture in particular and especially white American culture in specific is we don't have a lot of our own culture we haven't colonized from someone else. And that's something we might have to address. Even the complete and utter misunderstanding of Irish culture around St. Patty's day annoys the heck out of me considering how the Irish were treated for the first couple decades of the American colonies (a four leaf clover is not a shamrock goddamit)  And that's my thoughts. I do think it's a complex process. Just the other day I got in a discussion with some feminist friends about by ballet teaching wife performing Nutcracker every year and using cultural icons for the different cultural dances, is this appropriation? None of us could seem to agree and some people might say it is and others won't. I don't know. I think Chrisiousity had some good thoughts below on how to navigate it all a little. In other words, don't just shrug it off, it is important, and listen when someone says "hey this feels like you're appopriating my culture." Have respect.
very fair sane viewpoint! i luvs it
Another thing mentioned in the video that is ... I can only describe it as insanity: that it's okay to be a hypocrite because of something that happened in the past, not even in ours or anyone involved personal past, but in a past none of us had anything to do with. I.E. A group of people got murdered in the past, thus it's okay to make fun of modern people because they LOOK similar to people in the past that were murderers. To me, this is clear racism. You're literally acting or suggesting that somehow a modern person is responsible, or worse, a murderer, because people in the past that looked similar to them were murderers.
I think most people(literally almost all) know cultural appropriation does not exist because culture is not a tangible thing that can be owned by any person or group. Thus it cannot be stolen or taken since it is not owned to begin with. Also, you don't need to care nor is it wrong to not care about what other people think about what is almost always a simple fashion choice like having dreads or wearing a certain hat.
Dreds are also Jewish, you silly goy.
The problem with white ppl who have dreadlocks is that they arent actually locs, they are unwashed and matted hair clumped together into chunks. While black people's hair NATURALLY locks together like that. If a white person had kinky curly hair, i wouldnt care if they had dreads. The problem is that white people adopt this style to appear urban, edgy, and alternative. White people do this all the time, they take black culture to appear counterculture. This is why rap audiences are mostly white dudes and why AAVE (african american vernacular english) is often stolen in order to look hip, urban, and trendy. That's really why its appropriation.  The fact that black people don't get jobs and black kids get punished in school for their NATURAL hairstyles is just another added layer of insult, but its not necessarily a sole reason why it's appropriation. Another aspect is not just hair but white girls wearing bindis, saris, headdresses, etc. for fashion or artistry. White girls wearing a headdress to coachella is mad disrespectful to the culture if belongs to. In this scenario it's much less of a costume or a caricature, moreso taking a foreign cultural item for aesthetic purposes. The problem here is that white people feel as though they can own and use anyone elses culture  the way they please without giving the proper respects. Another example of this is Justin bieber making a song in spanish and then totally buchering and mocking it when he didn't know the lyrics live. Don't make a fucking song in spanish if you can't respect the language or culture. The other examples i stated above have the same sentiments. White people take something of another culture they feel they have the right to do under the guise of multiculturalism and racial blending and shit but totally disrespect it and denigrate it.  I'm not saying Iggy isn't allowed to rap ever, I'm saying, if you're gonna rap you should respect the community that created that shit. So no its not cultural segregation at all
Cultural appropriation doesn’t exist.  Anyone who thinks it does has no idea, at all, what culture is.  Cultures are fluid, dynamic things that are continuously interacting with and adopting things from one another.  That's what they do.  It's what they ALL do ALL THE TIME and anyone who complains about whitey appropriating their culture while living in a house with running water and electricity can get fucked.
I think where appropriation goes wrong is when it removes or changes the original meaning of the thing you're appropriating. For example Nazi's taking the swastika, a Native American peace symbol, and turning into a symbol of white supremacy. Eric Clapton playing the blues isn't appropriation because it retains the original meaning, whereas Iggy Azalea rapping does not, which makes it harmful, or at the very least bad art.
Big ups to contra for the vape wave.
Zeppelin are cunts...
Is it cultural appropriation when African Americans wear dreadlocks that originally are from Jamaican Rastafari culture? Yes. Is it a problem? Ask the Rastafarians. I think it is not.
vikings did some times have dreadlocks.  not sure that changes anything
WHAT'S IN THE FUCKING JARS I NEED TO KNOW
wagwan because of the mix of black and white that happens in London and then because of London's impact on English culture  wagwan is said Eveywhere.
I had a thought the other day about music. I heard someone saying that disco was white people appropriating black rhythms, I couldn't help but remember that early rap was mainly sampling the drum beats off disco albums.  So, it was a case of white people stealing something, and then black people stealing the same thing back. (though I don't think the early DJ's knew they were re-appropiating (is that a word?))
I dressed as Baron Samedi for Halloween a few years back. Now I feel like I've fucked up.
You picked the best (read: personally most fantasized about) scene from Nymphomaniac.
Wait, did you try and imply that Irish people have never been oppressed or colonised?
Kindof ironic how the only woman in the world who makes sense has the brain of a white dude
I feel like I'm seeing a whole different side to sjws now. I mean, from my perspective, the majority of sjws are just mean angry people who hate every majority group, but you and some others are just normal people with liberal values. It's weird because I've been in a lot of groups with majority sjws (being a person belonging to a lot of minority groups) and almost all of them were full of intolerant, condescending assholes.  Basically this was a roundabout way of saying you're one of the cool sjws.
Cultural appropriation is bullshit!
Redskin injuns aren't "mostly exterminated" they have been bred out. I, and every white person I know is part native american. If they had been exterminated then millions of whites wouldn't be part redskin. I had dreads too. Black people always wanted to touch my hair. Racist much? And more than one black guy told me to "go back to africa!" Ughh... ?
I became aware of your channel after watching the debate you did with Blaire, and I'm happy I did! Your videos are articulate and funny.
I'm offended by the vikings...BECAUSE THEY ALWAYS FUCKING LOSE AND MAKE US LOOK BAD.
Why are guys-dressing-as-chicks not culturally appropriating female culture? If not, would it be okay for me to dress as a squaw at Hallowe'en but not as a chief?
I always wonder why I never liked Led Zeppelin. I guess that's why
Black guy with Dreads here.... I don't give a shit if whites has dreads....Seriously.... Please, Stop asking me if I do
Culture is a set of ideas, ideas have no rights or owners, (minus patents and copyrights). People have rights,  ideas don't.
7:00 unreasonable point here. according to your sentiments, the sole factor that renders led zeppelin's "appropriation" problematic is their profit. this is quite clearly a faulty point. when you view this critically and clear away all the other baloney involved in discussion about cultural appropriation, it's obvious that their profiting off their music is not something that renders their actions culturally appropriating in nature. in fact, profit is completely irrelevant in the consideration of this ethical issue.
You can't dial back the offense taking. It only goes forward.
But, dreads aren't exclusively black? How do you appropriate something that doesn't belong to anyone exclusively ?   Why is this seen as appropriation in any capacity ? And not merely being influenced by something ? Can cultures not influence one another? Isn't a part of your culture being adopted by another a sign of it's strength ?  Just to be clear, I can dress up as a cowboy, but not a Vaquero?  As south park puts it: It's either all ok to satirize or none of it is.
"Two black men banging my wife". *Grandmother walks in.*
i think you still hold on to some amount of snowflakism to be honest.
I agree. Just because the dreadlock thing was overblown, doesn't mean cultural approporiation nazis should be ignored. Great scientists and activists alike sometimes get things wrong. That's part of the truth seeking process.
Dreadlocks arent a black people thing, its been worn by so many cultures black, white and asians included.
I totally agree with this video. this is one of the most logical reviews I have seem done on this topic.
the lyric is actually "all in your hands" :P
I'm an anti sjw and this is the first cultural appropriation vid I've agreed with
also that 'ironic racism' last night is particularly un-ironic when the imagery you chose for 'Miscegenation' is two black guys undressing a seemingly innocent white girl. fucking disappointing really
Contrapoints i normally love you but this was sooooo sooo disappointing. You say it's important for 'dominant cultural groups try to understand everyone else' yet your understanding of why people find this racist is incredibly limited. You don't put any importance on 'oh, it's actually terrible for people to be experiencing racism, even if I, a white person, don't think it's racism.' You basically don't give a shit about POC effected by appropriation, yet the only 'consequence' for this view on appropriation that you can claim is yoga class will be cancelled or a white girl will say don't eat sushi. What about a consequence for listening to this stuff being that POC will less frequently deal with behaviour they find oppressive?
I would agree with you here. I don't really consider myself an anti sjw or an sjw. Just a dude who is sick of outrage. Let people wear their hair however you want. I am 100% sure that a white dude with dreads and a black dude with dreads who are otherwise "professional" would not be hired at a job. That being said some sports ball teams and their various names don't have solid consensus with native groups. Take UND Sioux many in the Sioux tribe were not mad at the portrayal of the name or picture.
White lives matter protest rally
REEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEE
Hm... I got an idea  You and T1J doing a collab vid on an important topic soon?
you are one of the few sjws that I,  for some reason , do not want to hit. subscribed.
appropriation isn't the same thing as cultural exchange, it's taking something out of context and thus minimising its initial meaning. For example there isn't something inherently wrong with tattoos becoming a popular thing, however, there IS a problem with someone perhaps getting a "tribal" tattoo or otherwise using a symbol they do not understand the meaning of purely for aesthetic reasons. There is nothing wrong with white people decorating themselves with feathers, however deliberately making some kinda fake war bonnet - a symbol earned and equivalent to military medals with an additional cultural resonance and reflection - is a bit shitty.
Every person had dreadlocks before the invention of the comb. So who really owns them?
im pretty sure robert plant put a potato in his pants before the filming of song remains the same
❤❤❤
WHAT WAS IN THE JARS???
I don't know that I accept the premise of someone belonging to a culture in the first place.  They're all so based on brainless stereotypes.  Surely they're things that happen extremely vaguely upon large areas, timescales and populations?  Not some imaginary team for an individual to be categorized into and then wear the badge of.
4:56 what music is that? (it doesn't sound Indian to me (not that I am an expert) - reminds me of Georgian polyphony.)
I think you gave Zeppelin a bad rap here.  In today's standards, not giving someone credit is a bad thing, but, like not knowing that cigarettes where bad back then, everyone did it, without malice, forethought or knowledge... it was the excepted norm.  People weren't as uptight and serious as they are now (maybe you had to be there to fully understand the times).  Although, I think it's horrible how exploited most musicians and actors were, in the early days of recording/filming, it was common place, and, if fault need be given, it should fall on the Producers/Studio Heads, and possibly the Agents (like Col. Parker or Brian Epstein), not the artists.  So, to single out such an AMAZING band, for something that was a universal practice, is harsh, unreasonable, and sad... by singling them out, in this PC Cultural mess of an era, you could possibly stigmatize Zeppelin to current and future generations, and that's just too screwed up to imagine... think I need a safe space. :P
Just like to point out that the Vikings wrote using the Younger Futhark.
A Macintosh Plus sample? I knew it.
As a Han Chinese (the main ethnicity in the country, but minority elsewhere), I have no problems for other people 'appropriating' our culture. As long as they don't misrepresent or mock them. But even that sometimes can be muddy waters...  One of these 'not so sure' cases I am thinking about is the relationship between Han Chinese and Manchus in China. Qipao is a  dress Han Chinese women appropriated and 'modernized' (basically made more sexy) from Manchurian dress. Manchu people once ruled China in the Qing Dynasty, but .then they fell out of power. Historically Han Chinese were oppressed by Manchus, but then the Manchu culture got assimilated into Han Chinese and today it is increasingly more difficult to tell. It is an interesting (except the clashes and wars and killing ofc) dynamic between the two cultures throughout centuries.
I love you
even if i don't always agree with you 100% i still really appreciate your videos. you and hbomberguy are pretty damn rational and make a good SJW counterpoint to the anti-SJW channels like sargon and the armored skeptic.  keep up the good work!
There is nothing wrong with appreciation someone's culture but when it becomes something like Ex: Black person with cornrows done with beads typically in a specific culture is labeled as ghetto but a white person takes it, calls it something else and they are labeled cool and made to seem as they created it. People have taken this cultural appropriation thing out of control a bit and use it incorrectly. My ethnicity is mostly haitian and yes blacks can culturally appropriate other black cultures. I find too many african americans spouting cultural appropriation yet do actual cultural appropriation themselves.
Literally aaaaaaaall of culture is something ripped out of its original context
I mean, yeah it might be useful to differentiate between appropriation and exploitation at times, but that's the thing, a lot of people don't see the difference. Living in a small town in a mostly white (including myself, disclaimer) European country, I have noticed its shockingly common to believe that wearing those sorts of Halloween costumes or even doing shit like blackface is "showing how much they like these cultures or people", and as thus making the distinction between them could be easily used to outright dismiss any claims to problematic behavior under the pretense that "it's not exploitation, it's appreciation". In fact, I have seen that very thing happen in person. It might not be as obvious in bigger places, but I can guarantee there are tons of people who think along the same lines in places with a white majority.  Also, I find it strange that you as a white person uses so much time talking about how its no big deal for white people to wear dreads and that "only other white people care about it" when you yourself show several sources of PoC people talking about why it makes them uncomfortable and you outright dismiss their concerns because of personal experience. Your argument for it meanwhile seems to be "my black friend says its fine", "religion is a lie so its okay to appropriate religious figures even if from majorly PoC religions who are persecuted for it" and "PoC need to appeal to white people for them to be allies" which seems like an incredibly flimsy defense that ignores some very real concerns brought up by said PoC writers from earlier.  I think its great that you bring up the stuff about Led Zeppelin and such and you have a fair amount of good points, but your entire view on the matter seems to be somewhat colored by your own frustrations with "SJWs ruining our fun" and as thus becomes way too defensive of your own personal views and focuses way too much on the reactions of some stupid white people like Lena Dunham, and involuntarily even repeats certain right-wing pundit talking points in the process.  At the end of the day, I think we should try and be more respectful towards other cultures, but also be better at listening to different people than just the loudest people who aren't actually affected directly by an issue. Next time Lena Dunham starts saying something that sounds questionable, don't take her at face value, do research from people these issues actually affect, locally if possible sure but also online from strangers, and try to understand where THEY are coming from before putting our own personal views as on-lookers, or the views of other on-lookers, as the end point of the discussion.  (Also sorry for bad grammar and such, English isn't my first language.)
You videoes are amazing!!
what's in those jars?
This is the first time I've seen a sensible defense of the idea of cultural appropriation
Viking wrote in younger FUTHARK, not the elder. You thor-damned S-jew. If you're going to appropriate viking culture, please do it correctly.
Did you use a few clips from the Black Mirror bees episode in this one, Contra? The "#deathto" screen and the bees on the wall?
btw christianity was made by brownish people.
The only thing I'm disappointed about in this video is that your makeup is nowhere near colorful enough.
I personally would consider crappy Halloween costumes/crappy sports team names cultural appropriation, as they are in fact taking a very narrow aspect of a culture (along with plenty of stereotypes, misrepresentations, etc.). Similarly, having dreadlocks could arguably be considered cultural appropriation as well (although what culture is being appropriated is up for debate as you point out).  What makes some cultural appropriation "okay" and some cultural appropriation bad is how it negatively impacts the culture being appropriated. For example, if your cultural appropriation is actively caricaturing or misrepresenting a culture (e.g. shitty Halloween costumes, works of fiction that misrepresent a culture, etc.), then it is obviously not ethical as that imparts some degree of harm to the people of that culture. However, if you use an aspect of a culture as inspiration for something new, but not as a (mis)representation of that culture, then it's at least more likely to be ethical (e.g. white people with dreadlocks).  This is at least how I like to think about this cultural appropriation. It's definitely not a black and white issue.
Second gen Jamaican American with locs here: according to my mom main stream Jamaicans see locs as a weird hippy thing.  So in my opinion anyone can have locs and yours looked way cooler than mine :)
Wow you are vile telling someone to light themselves on fire you sound like another psuedo intellectual that has a warped view on world and you yourself are not deemed to tell humanity who suffers most in the world due to standards that society puts on others. news flash everyone is wronged it doesn't matter your skin color,culture,sex,gender whatever. Your ideology kind of made me sick and I wanted to give your conversation a chance. I hope that beyond the identity of your channel you really are good person.
I once thought about being baron samedi for halloween but as a white i think the black face would be talking wrong
I think a lot of people confuse exchange for appropriation when discussing this topic. Exchange is simply when culture bleeds into another and ideas get picked up (see how Japanese animation was inspired by a lot of American animation, and then this is reciprocated with American shows using similar styles and concepts) this doesn't occur as a result of a power dynamic. Often cultural appropriation is a capitalist thing, where I come from Poppies are a highly revered symbol, there's a cutesy family dinner type show over here called The One Show, and one time they had the Cookie Monster on, and he was wearing a poppy. There were numerous complaints and people were upset. Now if the Cookie Monster was wearing a Native American headdress with lots of feathers I think the same types of people who complained about the poppy would decry those complaints as "SJWs whining about nothing". The same people probably don't see an issue with black and white scarves intended to be symbols of solidarity with the Palestinian people being turned into just another fashion commodity by ignorant people and in turn the machinery of capitalism. The British would be incensed if poppies became a fashion item, an accessory, but that's not something we have to be worried about because our culture is very dominant, no one is turning our symbols of respect into costumes.
What's in those jars?
I agree strongly - cultural diffusion is natural and appropriate, and mocking other cultures with offensive stereotypes is wrong no matter what it's for, too.
Lena Dunham is kind of a shitty person soooo waive on what she says
I think what's lost a lot of the time in SJW discourse is that in American culture in general, deescalating a situation is often seen as a sign of weakness and threats are so vile and horrifying that showing any sign of weakness feels like we compromise the whole.  What bothers me more isn't that we have SJWs who feel this militant about cultural appropriation issues, it's that the wider Western and particularly American cultural context that SJ issues in general are discussed in is so absolutist and so warped that having a nuanced view means that some asshole might take that as license to do something stupid and we just took a massive step backwards.  I'm not trying to castigate white SJWs for this either. They're off the hook for the most part imho.   When trying to have these discussions with regressives often comes down to trying to find a set of ever more granular set of absolutes and the idea of using your best judgment is as wise as me trying to decide whether or not donuts can be dinner. 
How long have you studied Spanish and German?
Why was Mike Pence interviewing Tower Records employees?
Thank you. Just... thank you.  Liked this vid at 2 minutes in, because YES, the problems a lot of people call 'appropriation' are just flat out stereotyping and racism, and the appropriation without giving massive credit to those you're appropriating from is the real problem, not people trying to understand and appreciate something and doing it poorly. Also, I've heard a lot of people who hate Led Zeppelin for all the shit they stole, so props to you on that in the music-nerdiest-way possible.
I don't think those Mexican disguises were racist at all and I'm Mexican. I think they were funny, even we do that sometimes.
I'm so heartbroken that Led Zeppelin were plagiarists. :'( My childhood has been destroyed. </3
This is one of the most intelligent and sane and reasonable arguments on this matter that I have ever seen. I was the type of guy who rolled his eyes at this and bashed the SJWs for it endlessly... holy hell, how did you manage to do THAT?!
but you have white face isnt that racist and the east asians can take offense
Man, you really like Black Mirror :P.
Very familiar with the Shit lords I'd been looking for a sane counter.  After finding you and watching a handful of your videos you have a new subscriber.  Grazie x
I love you
Ok so is appropriation just when you take credit for something another culture came up with? or is it something more? because obviously taking from another culture without giving that culture credit is wrong, but sometimes "leftists" try to make it seem like appreciating a culture by using/wearing something from that culture is also appropriation. I'm just confused because the concept seems so abstract.
1:35 https://www.washingtonpost.com/local/new-poll-finds-9-in-10-native-americans-arent-offended-by-redskins-name/2016/05/18/3ea11cfa-161a-11e6-924d-838753295f9a_story.html  OH MY GOD IT'S ALMOST LIKE........ YOU'RE MAKING MUCH ADO ABOUT....  NOTHING...?  And faggot, this means that you should burn yourself alive too because the natives don't give a fucking shit about your hypothetical problems, not even the fucking native americans themselves you fucking little smartass fuck.
I'm Swedish. My great great grandfather owned the hearing company with the kings seal. Should I be offended by people dressing up as Vikings and barbarians? I mean ...I like to take to opportunity to teach people stuff about my the culture of my ancestors.None of this explains why I should care.
So........what were in those jars???
people said you did a brownface in this wtf
Learn to laugh at the caricatures. If you cant laugh then you have missed the point of the joke, which is to laugh.
I skipped over this vid. Apropos of vikings and scandi folk whatever, I'm scandi and I feel so repulsed by white supremacist terrorists and internet assholes that my stomach sinks a little every time norse mythology and the viking age comes up online. It sucks, because there's a lot of good norse shit (along with pillaging and slavery ofc): Cool boats, rusty swords, the story of Balder's death, crossdressing Thor (for laughs, but u take what u get), everything Freya... Idk. I think it extra sucks for me because I'm not white and I hate when people make me deal with their racial insecurity shit, to the point where I'm too defensive about it in my own head. Anyway, nice video, culture is all in your head and I love @medievalpoc
I don't know about mythics, but I know dreadlocks is a good way to style black textured hair; and in a context where black people can't have their natural hair, I understand why some people find white people with dreadlocks unpleasant
when you dropped 'i like watching black men bang my wife' in there, apropos of nothing, I laughed so hard I nearly choked. well done.
Hmm. Sort of disappointed in this video. Kind of a "Political Correctness is Out of Control!" vibe, and comes off as a bit defensive. Why spend so much time in a video on cultural appropriation defending white people with dreads? Very funny, and well put together, but I think it's a little off.
i think a big part of the appropriation conversation that people ignore is the importance of the quality of the appropriative act.   cultural influence is fine if the person being influenced seems to understand and respect the thing they are inspired by and produce something of quality because of that. the issue is when someone who is of relatively higher social standing borrows an idea, mangles it horribly, and then presents it as their own idea. especially when the process ends up redefining the context or meaning of the original cultural object. white people doing yoga is fine, but when random parts of hindi language or religious mysticism  are sprinkled in by people who know little about it other than thinking it seems "exotic" it starts to feel more like annoying appropriation.
The Irish have faced a lot of discrimination so you should probably find it bad like an Indian caricature.   What I hate though is the Idea of white culture, especially being British. We are made from a cumulation of ethnicities and cultures to create a distinct people. I hate being lobbed in with all others with a pale complexion.  I think it comes from Americans describing black and white culture in the US but then letting that leak to a world view, forgetting that there are two continents primarily made up of "black" and "white" individuals. There are so many variables in genetics and culture, it's sad to see that forgotten.
please try and get on dp, you need more exposure so bad
I don't agree with what you say, but I subscribed with you nonetheless. I like your way of tackling subjects. You are one of the few opposing viewpoints I can watch without feeling like punching my monitor every 3 minutes...
barca de oro??? nice
I can't believe that I have to remind you that _dressing up in face paint in order to imitate other races/cultures is something that you should probably avoid_.
you are my new favorite, i can't stop watching you.
Yeesh, the makeup was particularly bad in this one.  ;)
I disagree with you on many things, but damn it you are funny.
I T S A L L I N Y O U R H E A D
ya, a lot of cultural appropriation discourse just reinforces segregational racist ideas under the language of liberal horse shit. like u said culture is something that is always in flux. changing and intermixing. i think people should focus their critical  gaze on  power imbalances and whether a culture is being disrespected or not, and stop protesting yoga classes just for the fuck of it. as a side note, white people in dreadlocks still look goofy.
Damn you sound a LOT like the guy from Regular Car Reviews.
So can cultural appropriation be divorced for race issues ? If some artist like Led Zeppelin remixes traditional songs, does it matter they are white and the songs "belong" or reached them via black people ?  If you forget race, does cultural appropriation still exist or is it just some dude "stealing" songs or hair styles from essentially the commons.   I find there's something repulsive about the very idea of cultural appropriation, I feel it's not a legitimate accusation. You can't steal copyrights from the commons, that's just re-interpretation and that's a good thing. Or maybe it's just because I'm a pirate who basically does not respect copyright in its current form anyway.
The problem isn't with cultures organically blurring or exchanging, it's when a power dynamic exists, which just seems to be a bit of a footnote in the video. Cultural Appropriation as a "thing" would have been classically discussed under the headings of Colonialism and more specifically Orientalism. Colonial powers went over to places like India, killed a bunch of them and made themselves leaders, and simultaneously fetishised their culture. They also invaded a bunch of place for spices. It's because of the history of colonialism et. all that stuff like this is so sensitive.   Also with regards Dreadlocks, what you have to keep kin mind is that black people are discriminated against for a natural, cultural style. Discrimination against black people with dreadlocks is racist, whereas against white people with dreadlocks -while maybe the result of misdirected racism isn't really on the same level. I feel like the discussion of stuff like this could be more nuanced but I'd definitely side with the majority of black activist youtubers who seem to be against it, being myself white.
I think this video was a little less well researched than some other videos you've made, although I still really enjoyed it.  First, a few small nitpicks. You contradict yourself-- you say you got a ton of compliments for having dreads, then you say you couldn't get a job (or more accurately, were told you couldn't get a job).  I also think you missed one important question, that might make your inquiry more fruitful: why do white people want to wear dreads?  What perception of dreads are furthered by white people with dread (perceived as rebellious, associated with marijuana use, associated with certain values)?  Might the result of this perception affect white and black people with dreads/locks differently?  For example, white people often have dreads to further their political image (you, for instance, say your dreads made you feel "spiritual").  Historically, white people wore dreads and put on black face in the hippie movement during Civil Rights movements, then provoked police.  When the rally was over, white people combed out the dreads and returned to white society when they got bored of like without privilege-- but the stigma they attached to the hairstyle remained for black communities.    I guess what I am saying is, our use of things from other cultures can in some circumstances both belay and reinforce our stereotypes about those cultures and/or races.  When Justin Beiber and Miley Cyrus have dreads, they are saying that dreads of "edgy."  These stereotypes, controlled by white appropriators, attach to non-white people.  There is a fine line between cultural appropriation and cultural appreciation, absolutely.  But just because the conversation is difficult, doesn't mean we shouldn't have it.  Even the distinction you draw between "mockery" and appropriation is a little hazardous.  What about a white woman who wears a kimono and paints her face like a geisha because she thinks it makes her look "exotic"-- how is this different from the Halloween costume parody example you gave?  Clearly there is some form of white woman in kimono that is not problematic-- maybe she's in a film made in China, or something else devoid of the context which makes appropriation potentially harmful to disenfranchised groups. But finding this line is tough.  I think this topic is so controversial because it is actually a really sophisticated idea which has suddenly been exposed to a public without the tools or framework to analyze it.  Like many other often mocked buzzwords, "trigger warning" "safe spaces" "gender fluid" and the like, it's not actually absurd once you turn the stone over and examine it in a nuanced, fact based way.
Terence Mc Kenna : Culture is Not Your Friend  https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IAGxjOr3vYA
along with the1janitor this is probably the best explanation of cultural appropriation/exchange i've seen
The wrongness of caricaturing members of a race or ethnic group as such is proportional to how unsuccessful that race or ethnic group has historically been? It's astounding that there really are people dumb enough to take something so transparently ad hoc and thoughtless seriously.
I find it disturbing that you jokingly tossed aside any possibility of valid offence of Irish stereotypes because they're predominantly white, it kind of flies in the face of all the famine, oppression and discrimination they went through
omg I love you so much
How does Led Zepplin making profit off of covering royalty-free songs count as appropriation? Even if you want to call it "stealing," how is it possible to steal an entire cultural of Blues music with that one act? It could possibly count as stealing those individual songs, but certain not a culture of music.
There's hope for you, Nick. The cognitive dissonance is there, buddy. That means at some level you understand this SJW stuff is bullshit. Nowhere in your video did you address the idea that the definition of cultural appropriation is cultural theft, which is not what's happening, except maybe on the SJW side. By saying that Black people have the monopoly on dreadlocks, they are attempting to steal the White use of the practice. Furthermore, Rastafarianism is based on Judeo-Christian thought and is, itself, the biproduct of cross cultural interaction. In fact, Rastafarianism is an Abranhamic religion like Judaism, Christianity, and Islam.
The Viking's have suffered enough this season, they've become the joke of the NFL. How do you go from undefeated to this?
Gurl you need some basic understanding of Catrina makeup before talking about this topic TBH
good video. i do agree that cultural appropriation can be a problem when it's done in a heavy-handed way. basically, as long as you know the origins of what you're doing and you do what you're doing in a respectful way, I'd say you're fine.  one of the examples i see mischaracterized is Iggy Azalea. she isn't demonized for being a white rapper, or a female rapper, but because she's inauthentic and raps from a perspective she doesn't have. there are plenty of white rappers (r.a. the rugged man, aesop rock, etc.) and female rappers (lauryn hill, noname, etc.) who are very well respected, and even white female rappers like kate tempest, but the difference is they're all honest about who they are and what their stories are
I honestly feel like the police trying to keep cultures separate and pure would be more down the anti-sjw alley than the sjw one. But man if there's not always someone complaining about white people with dreads.
What. what. what. What about the Irish who were brutally chased after and attacked for years on end in the 1890s? Or Germans who had their culture wiped out during the world war 1? Is it now racist because something horrible happened to them? Or because they are apart of some white group that you assume is all the same and possibly doesn't have various different ethnics and groups within them. That seems more racist then someone dressing up as a native american and having some laughs and fun.   This weird worldview in which oppression must occur for racism to occur is idiotic. Racism is rather simple..do you believe one race is superior to another? No. Then guess what you aren't a racist. This is petty nonsense you are picking at. The real oppression and bigotry that should be scream about is gays not having civil rights. That's actual oppression/bigotry or poor communities being unfairly levied against with funds and societal effort(actual bit of racism here). That someone likes to dress up as a different culture is racist...is fucking ridiculously stupid. These aren't problems..this is petty whinging about things that happened decades ago.
I'm sorry, but I don't think we should stop stereotyping each other. "Racist" caricatures might be offensive, but at least the races are interacting with each other. Caricatures are the best way for humans to gain a quick and easy understanding of each other. Sure, it's not an in depth understanding, but it's better than nothing.  If you shun all caricatures, even those who aren't meant to be offensive, you're not creating a less racist society, you're creating a more ignorant one. And ignorance leads to racism.
Yo dude, did you just culturally appropriate georgian polyphonic singing at 5:00 without crediting it in the description? For shame...
ugh come on contrapoints, shut up. this is just bullshit that wouldn't effect anyone if no one cared.
So if an asian dresses as a cowboy, or a minuteman?  The concept of cultural appropriations is bullshit.  You collectivist idiots are not going to have this catch on.
Who the fuck cares.
This is the smartest and most rational video on the topic I've seen yet.
Sometimes I think right wing plans come up with bullshit ideas like cultural appropriation to destroy and fracture liberal movement from the inside. What about first world country privilege to even have time to discuss such bullshit ideas.
Some tips on your Spanish: The "d", in most cases, is pronounced more like the "th" in "there" (no the one in "think"), and especially so between vowels. So "adios" sounds more like "ath-yoss". Also "señoritas" has a single "r" between vowels which is not a rolled "r". The single "r" is shorter and less fancy, and it sounds like the "dd" in "ladder". Notice the difference between words like "pero" (but) and "perro" (dog), or "caro" (expensive) and "carro" (car), "pera" (pear) and "perra" (bitch, whore, female dog). These are not homophones, they sound drastically different to a native Spanish speaker. Saying "señorrita" instead of "señorita" immediately sounds off to a native Speaker.
What ever happened to that good boy we used to watch on that Nic channel years ago?
For the most part cultural appropriation isn't bad. Taking a foreign culture and integrating it into your own is generally harmless. Even if party A butchers does not understand party B's culture. Obviously, things get different if there is a significant power discrepancy or there is exploitation. As long as people learn and integrate other cultures while being honest about the origins I see no issues.
I am obsessed with you. How is this channel not more popular?
Make a video about the election god dammit
I like your videos because I can watch them and proceed to claim I don't live in an echo chamber. Now I guess I'll go back to watching armoured skeptic.
I have such a crush on u <3
For the record, The Elder Futhark was out of circulation by the time Viking became a job-description for a minor part of the Norse ethnicity.
Hmm...its time for you to stop sexually appropriating the opposite gender cause men historically have been oppressive to women.
The idea of cultural appropriation is ridiculous.  "Hey white people! We, the far left, want you to live in a multicultural society... but don't you dare embrace other cultures!" Fuck off.
Can you please do a video on Steven Crowder?
Really good video.  I really like how you went into some depth of this topic and explained how both "sides" of this issue are over simplifying the issues presented.  I'm still not convinced that caricatures are racist. Its actually my opinion that sometimes caricatures and racist jokes actually combat racism. When I hear a racist/sexist joke that I find funny, its BECAUSE I view it as bad that I find it as funny. The way I see it, if you were truly racist, then your reaction wouldn't be laughter but only "so what, that's the truth of the matter."  Of course, I wouldn't go telling a bunch of off color jokes or dressing up as a Mexican in public, its definitely situational; but I just don't see these things (or anything as a matter of fact) as an "inherent" evil.
ContraPoints IS the chosen one.
The only argument I strongly disagree with here is the idea that a non-white group would have to oppress a white group for an extended period of time in order for them or some cultural signs to be considered racist against white people, which I think is way too rooted in an historical definition of racism as opposed to a more practical definition based on group-based prejudice.  The example of "Fightin' Irish" is a complicated one, as it was at a time considered a willingly racist image, given that the Irish in America were not "racially" Anglo-Saxon or Germanic and therefore not considered fully part of American society; hence the stereotypical image of Irishmen as violent leprechauns.  However, eventually Irish-Americans themselves re-appropriated the image as a point of cultural pride and cultural identity, in the same way blacks re-appropriated the n-word; however, that doesn't ultimately rule-out the possibility of that imagery being used for the purposes of anti-Irish bigotry, as also with the n-word.
I dunno. I think there's something missing here. If it just comes down to, give credit where credit is due, than it doesn't really have anything to do with race or culture. But I think it's more than that. I can't quite put my finger on it. But it's more than just one band taking credit they don't deserve. I think it's a mass cultural phenomenon, where the contribution of underpriviledged people is edited out of the popular history.
This video evoked a lot of the 80's and 90's in style and presentation, at least for me, but hey that's a good thing.
There is a major difference between cultural appropriation, cultural exchange and cultural sharing.
Great video, I agree with most everything. Additionally, I also used to be a white person with dreads lol (shameful af). Please make a video about the election. I'm so sad and really value what you have to say.
I am starting to unironically like what you say.
SSSSEEEENORITAS PICANTES
Was expecting the worst. Turns You actually make sense.
so pretty good stuff  I agree that the indian names aren't fabulous, though I do kind of disagree with the argument that the pictures and such are racial stereotypes; i think they're more of "indian warriors", but admittedly that nuance is kind of lost. Ultimately, I think that team names are often dumb and then they become cherished tradition, to the point that changing them, even if it would be the right thing to do in a lot of ways, is a bad idea. Maybe if "redskins" was still recognized heavily as a slur; I've heard it's recognized in some places, but rather sparsely, and a recent poll showed that 90% of Indians weren't personally offended by it. In a vacuum, this could be a big deal, but I think we've managed to make it not a big deal, rather in the same way as, yes, "the celtics" and other such.  other than that, I think it's possible to be a dick with cultural appropriation, but people seem to cry "racist" not only for outright racist caricatures, but just for representations of a culture. in many cases they do it for their own personal benefit or other spurious reasons, but the more the word is used in such a fashion, the more innocent people are hurt by it and the more it loses its power. so, there's that.
მართლა ჩაკრულო ისმის თუ it's all in my head? :დ
yes,it's a complex subject
If people will continue to complain about whites only using hairstyles or wearing certain clothing will it always be fair for them to do so because they may come from (insert oppressed people here) or will their ever be a point where you can say "shut the fuck up, i can do what i want and so can you" because, whilst i would love to watch the world burn, seeing whites moving down the hierarchy ladder (if we are in fact at the top of that ladder) all the way to the bottom is not something i look forward to (because i'm white, DUH) but if it did happen i can guarantee i would not be so concerned with people wearing christmas sweaters and more concerned with them you know, not bashing my face in. Not to say that people should be happy that they aren't being oppressed anymore like their ancestors may have been, but well, does the culture really matter? I can at least understand a person who is a native american for example having an issue with certain appropriations (or maybe not at all because i'm a white dude who was born in 92 and my culture seems to be the internet, masturbating a lot and meme's) but if a black person is simply saying you can't do that because i'm black and your white, well does that mean a polish person can do it because polish jews were murdered in massive numbers as recently as the 20th century, therefore being oppressed enough to not have their inner motives for appropriation questioned? My brain hurts.
I am a Mexican American who looks Caucasian. waiting to be called out on cultural appropriation of my own heritage. luckily it hasn't happened yet.
Hey, I got a cameo.
I really appreciate you making this video. I too have some mixed feelings about whether there is a clear cut line that separates cultural appropriation and cultural exchange. Not to mention, there doesn't seem to be clear ways of really knowing (well, sometimes anyway) if someone is appropriating or has actually be invited to take part. For example, a former instructor of mine is married to a man from Ghana who already had two children. Her step children love to do her hair, sometimes in cornrows. If you didn't know her or her family, she could easily come off as some white, privileged lady wearing cornrows for lols but really she has taken part and been invited into another culture.
nope.
The whole concept is a very interesting topic to think and talk about. dia de los muertos for example is a holiday that resonates a lot with me as an Austrian because All Hallows is a very important day in our culture as well and several places in Austria practice something called "Schädelmalerei", which involves the excavation and painting of the skulls of the deceased as practiced for roughly 400 years. Both traditions come from the death-cult of All Hallows in Catholicism and I feel more of a connection to that that for example Halloween.  Austria especially is a cultural chimera.... most of our pastries are imported from the corners of the old Austro-Hungarian monarchy, the south has a very Italian "dolce vita" mentality and the Kaffeehaus (as correctly depicted by Civiliation V) is a direct import from Turkey.
I hope the internet will start sounding more reasonable like this video in the near future...or we're all going to be cucked
i think that fashion and culture are two different things , fashion is part of culture and a celebration of it , not mockery (i'm speaking about general motives like dreads or patterns stuff like that not helloween costumes)
Very happy to see Macintosh Plus in another Contra video.  The year is 20XX, enjoying any music one does not claim 100% ancestry for will be deemed problematic and will require A-E-S-T-H-E-T-I-C 美学 reconditioning by our SJW overseers. Only V-A-P-O-R-W-A-V-E, originating on the internet, will be permitted.
I'm so glad that your channel exists!
This has to be the best video I have seen on the topic of cultural appropriation coming from your general side.    It makes me believe that the concept isn't total bullshit.
Oh Great, so you start out with, it can only be racist when it is against an oppressed minority. Bollocks 100% bollocks, regardless of your attempt to head this hypocritical stance off at the pass, it is still a hypocritical stance. Racism is NOT prejudice plus power. It is simply prejudice based on race, and don't attempt to give me sophistry regarding language evolving. Yes languages evolve but these grunts we make have  meanings, and to shoe horn in this definition, is not evolution, it's mutation and deliberate distortion. I agree that the mascots shown are racist, but they are all racist.
Oh God, Nymphomaniac. No. No. Noooo.
The arguments I've seen against white people having dreads are mostly that the process leading to white dreads is disgusting, whereas black people have hair that can dread-up in more hygenic ways. I have no idea if these arguments hold up, for the record.
Interesting to see cleveland indians and washington redskins next to each other. Im not an american, let alone a native one, so I dont know how they generally (not just activists) feel about those two compared to each other, but damn, indians logo seems to be way worse. At least red skins looks like something that could be on a coin, not a caricatre. That said, I guess something like "Huntsville Ni****s" wouldnt go down well either. Also, sorry to Huntsvillians, just a random southern city Ive picked.  Still, the annoying part of cultural appropriation in the non-caricature sense, is that mostly white people who have nothing to do with said culture complain about it. Of course, Im not going to forget those that do have something to do with it and do complain, but often even if its not a caricature and other people that have something to do with said culture have no problem with it, they still act like the appropriating person is a hostile racist. I dont think there is anything wrong with taking an ordinary kimono to an art exposition, where youre explicitely encouraged to wear it etc.  The thing about Zep? Didnt know that. You shouldnt claim youve composed something youve just rearranged, period. It is worse, when you do that to less known musicians and then everyone else thinks they are the plagiarists. Even if its public domain, attribute authorship properly.  Since we are in the UK musically, I wonder how youd see something like Iron Maiden's Run to the Hills video clip. Especially considering the lyrics and how they love to compose songs base in literature, history etc. You can turn of sound if youre dont want to listen to 80s heavy metal, that shouldnt affect it too much :).  The ending was great btw. I can get behind that.
I *will* say that the "Fighting Irish" of the Celtics is pretty damned racist.  Iunno, I feel like you could have focused a lot more on actual cultural appropriation, instead of focusing on dreadlocks, which I kind of feel is a topic that's one of those weird things that isn't actually a big deal, but everyone treats it like it's a big deal, so everyone thinks it's a big deal.  Also I know I've complained about your good looks making me jealous, but man that make up job is sloppy. Your eyes aren't symmetrical and the nose is off center!
perfect.
Once again, you pick a very interesting topic. I've played the game Civilization, and that makes me an expert on culture. I can tell you with confidence that cultural appropriation is a powerful tool used to conquer the world! All joking aside, I like the points that you made in the video. My perspective (as a non-expert) is that culture is something you want others to imitate. Not in negative or stereotyping ways, but in positive, constructive ways. For example, my daughter is white, and of European descent, but I take her to martial arts classes. Some people would consider this cultural appropriation. But I think it's a great contribution from Eastern cultures; we are all better off for having it. Imitation is the highest form of flattery, right? But, like I said, I'm no expert. I'm sure there is a lot more depth to this subject on both sides.
so appropriation is more about taking credit for stuff from other cultures or employing them in an insulting way rather than just using the stuff from other cultures? If that's a fair characterization of the view in the video, then I agree. I don't think adopting things from other cultures is wrong (rather, I think that's part of progress) but If I'm going to do so, as a rule, I should do so in such a way as to respect the culture from which I'm adopting. If I can't adopt something without disrespecting the culture, then I shouldn't do so.
nice video mang can u please stop appropriating cisgender culture? you trannies havent really discovered anything so far so gtfo the internet
A well-spoken and nuanced view of the issue.  An ounce of intellectual curiosity goes a long way and the more you understand about how important certain things are (particularly to marginalized community that are left with little else), the more you'll treat those things in the appropriate way.  In short, don't do the "I'm a sexy Indian princess" bullshit.
I don't think making fun of different racial stereotypes is racist.  Racism is the position that one race is superior than the other, which isn't immoral, just factually wrong.  If Neanderthals were still existing, do you really think we would think it is immoral rather than just a matter of fact to believe that they are inferior in someways?
i just don't understand why you think mockery is so bad, especially if it's going in every direction. why should anyone care about others' "cultural feels" in the first place?
You use the racism is power+what the fuck ever definition? We fundamentally disagree on the premise of the argument then. That's to deal with the opening stuff about racism involving sports team names. To talk about stuff like Led Zeppelin and taking credit for songs they didn't create, the problem is not appropriation. The problem is taking credit for a song they didn't create. I don't see how the culture is relevant to stealing credit for something you didn't create.
what books hide behind that "Simply Seductive" piece of paper on your shelve?
what's wrong with y'all ppl lol
Knocked it out of the park, yet again. Keep it up!
Yeh... the thing with dreadlocks in particular that always got me is the fact that they can form in any type of hair without any effort, if you leave it be for long enough. I have the thinnest most basic white girl hair there is and after a week of having the flu/not showering or brushing my hair, I had several dreads starting to lock up. If something can form unintentionally,  can it really belong to just one culture?
1:45 movie name?
This was very entertaining and informative. Even as someone who considers himself pretty anti-SJW (sort of)
Rap/rap battles and slam poetry also has ties to Flyting from Norse culture.
You do know that when the Romans invaded England the country was full of people with dreadlocks
poor boy.
"this is a complex topic and I probably got something wrong" - something you will never hear The Rationals™ say
Ironically, it's the same trap of essentialism people like Lena Dunham fall into when they try to fight racism.
imo (as a jamaican-american) i do define dreads as a part of rastafari culture but more because of my cultural background than anything else. also i do get irritated when black americans do jamaican/caribbean accents- partially because they sound like assholes who've never met a jamaican before, but mostly because i feel like a lot of (even well-intentioned) imitations of jamaican culture reduce it to stereotypes that get reaaaally old after a while
Good vid.  I think that people who have lost all sense of history, and now live in a mediated world of all cultures "virtually" present simultaneous to each other, lose the sense of anything being appropriated. Many people, now caught in the museum of digital culture, try on the masks of whatever is convenient and "works" for them.
Celtic people were indentured servants in the US. So why would it be okay to have an Irishman as a mascot or dress up in green covered in clovers and impersonate the accent on St.Patrick's day?
I see the point about racist Halloween costume is a re-branding of the "Punching down" point brought up by some SJWs who want to censor jokes that they disagree with.   While it is a better understanding of the issue (i.e. that Indian/Geisha/Mexican/Black costumes are just racist and not cultural appropriation), you don't leave enough points for,  the easily offended, anti-SJWs to keep them from crying about "reverse racism" or as I call it "racism".  Don't try to avoid racism against People of Color with subtle racism against whites.
The last SJW which i sometimes agree with, go slowly against sjw. A few more videos and you will be in group with the bearing lol.
If I'm (white) eating sushi, wearing a headdress, in blackface sitting peacefully and a person of black, native, and Asian descent physically assaults me, who is more in the wrong?
Pointing out that there's a difference between race and culture was great, as well as mentioning that race is difficult to distinguish. Both extermely pertinent points in the discussion of Cultural Appropriation.  I think the Indians/Redskins comparison vs Vikings/Celtics is pretty weak. The names/images of the former are clearly racist, while the latter are, at best, arguable. A better comparison is Vikings/Celtics vs Chiefs/Braves. I find neither of these groups to be racist (but if one is considered racist then so is the other). However, though I think each group is theoretically equivalent, they differ practically - one has more control of public image than the other (or, more specifically, has historically had more control). In this example, I think there's a (nuanced) difference between "racism" vs "unjust treatment".
I would disagree with the first point since the largely stereotyped depictions of non-white cultures that we see represented in costumes and mascots are what white people see as those cultures. They are appropriating those cultures and stereotyping them at the same time since the dominant cultural group do not care about the cultures they appropriate.  I also find the false binary that you're presenting with cultural segregation and cultural exchange to be shortsighted since you only look at it from the view of the dominant culture, not from the view of the cultures being appropriated.
BEWARE of the HAIRCUT POLICE!  OK, you have an interesting view on the topic, but I disagree with the whole costume thing, I mean it's racist? So do we make a list of non racist costumes that are save to wear? How bout Dracula? Well that's stereotyping the people of Moldova and appropriating their culture and mocking their history. Frankenstein's monster? That is mocking people with disabilities. Pirate? That's celebrating the lifestyle of murderous psychopaths and so on. You could be offended be everything. I just don't believe that when you put on a sombrero you are automatically a racist.
Who is appropiating female culture?
There's nothing wrong with copying from other cultures what will make your own culture better.
It must be like talking to a _wall of denial_ convincing people to walk the _tightrope_ between SJW and bigot.  At least, you can take _pride and joy_ in surviving the _crossfire_ of extreme comments.  Hopefully, it isn't too much of a _dirty pool_ to put you in a _rude mood_
I don't think it's wrong for people to make a mockery of others, or even wear costumes based on other people's cultures. It shouldn't be wrong. By that, I mean, it's impossible to tell someone's intent. Are they wearing the costume because they admire the culture they're costuming, or are they poking fun because they hate them?  I want to live in a world where a black man can paint himself white, and I can paint myself black, and neither of us will be discriminated against. But we currently live in a world where only one of these is permissible. I don't think the Redskins, or Indians are racist mockeries. Sure, Redskins is a racist term for native americans, but people who support that team are meant to be saying it with pride. My highschool's mascot was "The Redskins". We were PROUD of being Redskins. It's something celebratory, and I don't think you can understand that, without living it.  As for the Indians, and their 'racist' cartoon, it's simply that, their mascot is a native american, and the symbol was drawn ages ago, when that face style was the norm. There are hundreds of cartoons that follow the same style. Like the Dover Boys.
Another good one
I enjoy imagining someone suscribing to you thinking you are another edgy anti skelington and later finding another of your videos. I have like a blind eye for cultural stuff. I'm from Argentina and we have a clusterfuck of cultures mixed together so instead of culture we just have football teams. I don't like football but it seems to work with everyone else.
contrapoints i love you
You hit the main point on what cultural appropriation is versus individual referencing: Profiting on the market. A white person wearing dreads isn't a problem, but Elvis and Led Zepplin capitalizing on black people's work without credit beyond any success they've had is another. Cultural exchange wasn't always done peacefully but it's very important to how societies have grown, moved forward, and even remain in our current world. It's never really wrong to try and understand other cultures, but it's important to slow down if you happen to go for and are accidentally racist.   "If cultural appropriate is wrong, what's the alternative?" You a master at simplifying points that would usually cause a 10-post-tumblr chain of philosophy semantics. This is why we are subbed to you.
As someone with Irish heritage, I've never been too fond of the Fighting Irish mascot thing, but it pisses me off to no end when right-wingers bring up these types of things in order to deflect conversation about other shitty sports logos.
I think the difference is is that black hair locs naturally by simply twisting it. People with straight hair often times don't wash it in order for it to get matted( other times they do nasty shit to it) Rastas wash their hair while a small group of people in India dont. And a lot of stigma surrounding dreads comes from people who's hair doesn't naturally loc, since the whole "youre not supposed to wash your hair if you have dreads" nonsense is often said by non-black people.
I have only ever met one girl with nice white person dreads.
is stereotypical denigration of groups of people ok as long as there is not a historical narrative of persecution?  good,  I'm fine being a left-handed tranny i have protection but im also overweight so people can discriminate on that basis.
0:08, how to tell that Patreon is doing its job
Your videos keep getting better and better. I can imagine you and Lindsay Ellis  doing an awesome collab.
There are no words to express how much I love your videos!!!!  Yay for nuaaaaaance. It's really good to see people caring about others' cultures and stuff, but without nuance things just turn into rules of "DO THIS" and "DON'T DO THIS" which is more like blindly following, than actually thinking and engaging.  Interestingly, I just realized that I don't even know what the word "appropriate" means (!!!) so I'll definitely refrain from using it. I think my only issue with this topic is when it takes away economic power from groups that need it most. For example, in the last season of So You Think You Can Dance, there was a dancehall piece which was choreographed by a French choreographer. *Not taking away from the choreographer* I'm sure she worked really hard and is very good at her job, but my 2 main issues were just: 1. It didn't actually look like "dancehall". This is an emotional argument bred from the kind of loyalist thinking I try to shy away from but I'm Jamaican dammit and I love dance and if you're gonna do dancehall then at least do it right! And 2. It takes away economic power from the actual creators of the dance. If creation of art is a viable income generator (and it is!!!) then it is only fair for that economic gain to go to those who created the art. The problem is that these people aren't the ones that are "known", and very little opportunities exist for them in the first place. This is why the onus has to be on the 'dominant culture'...I'm sure it wouldn't have taken anything for the producers of the show to find an authentic Jamaican dancehall choreographer IF they had the mind to do it. These are the things that would fuel money back into our economy, and ultimately help our communities grow. It just sucks when you see people making money from something on such a large scale, when others who are actually responsible for that art, don't have that opportunity.   But ultimately, THAT MINDSET (^) is fueled by greed. In this unfair world, it would better to just accept the way things are, and try to make the most of the opportunities one is given. I think "third world" people have a much better time understanding and accepting this, whereas in other places that are more driven by capitalism, this impulse to claim economic gain is much stronger. The curse of development...
So essentially we just need to remember to spread the butter of context onto the toast of liberal issues.  "I can't believe it's not white"
I hugely agree with this.  I strongly feel that "SJW' nit-picking without context and labelling both a white chick who does yoga and violent racists as *"problematic"* really undermines more serious issues.  As a white person, especially one from Britain #SorryAboutTheWholeEmpireThing, I must do my best to be aware and respectful of origins of culture, and obviously agree that exploitation of marginalised groups for white success is kinda disgusting and despairingly common - but at the end of the day I feel *we've got bigger fish to fry*.
If I write fugues and sonatas does that count as cultural appropriation? I'm an Eastern European taking Western European genres for my own degenerate purposes.
I didn't find much in this video that I take serious issue with, despite generally being opposite those upset by cultural appropriation, but the stereotypes against Irish may not be as trivial as you assume. Just because they have the same colour skin as the dominant group doesn't mean they're going to be treated just like everyone else, and while it may have been largely ameliorated by today, there is a very long history of often severe racism against Irish people in the Anglosphere.
What is cultural appropriation?
Yea... that's pretty much where I float on this issue.  Maybe with some reservations on where you actually draw the line between a racial caricature and when it's just a racially specific equivalent of a cowboy, pirate, or viking (eg. I'd probably put "geisha" in the same camp of acceptability as "ninja"). You could probably fix a lot of the costumes with a simple name re-branding. An admittedly racist "Indian" costume would infringe a lot less on the ethnic caricature territory if it was given a more meaningful name like "Mohawk warrior" "Apache raider" or "Cherokee Hunter" or SOMETHING with a little more substance (assuming you don't get things blatantly inaccurate, or that those sub-categories aren't in themselves awkward hyperbolic caricatures like "Comanche Scalper"). Who knows, such normalization might even get a basic cursory knowledge of what's what conveyed to the average layman.  I guess if I were to pick a rule of thumb, if it's worth the time, & money to spend on a costume, try to have at least the BASIC idea of what the cultural context actually is.
1:30 Ireland is still to recover from the damage of the famine.
Entertaining and I like the nuance, but overall cultural appropriation is over used as an un-necessary attack.  This is the United States and we're a so-called melting pot.  Much of our culture was founded by the culture of immigrants - it makes most of the arguments against it moot.
Can you make a bad video?
It's always cultural appropriation till white people say ok respect our culture and stop using our creations and  aspects of our culture then turns into bigotry because of " white people did bad things in the past" every race did bad shit and still do bad shit, whites are the only race that love to beat themselves over it forever, you don't see the eastern slavers crying about what they did to black slaves.  Funny how blacks etc can wear knights armour etc and it's ok but holy shit if whites dress like other cultures, I think what I'm trying to say is white people are a bunch of cucks.
Actually Native Americans were mostly wiped out by diseases like smallpox (which was spread unbeknownst to the Europeans) , and the killing that did happens was mostly with the help of other Native American tribes. Before the Europeans got there there was a lot of war amongst the tribes. Furthermore, there was a decent amount of intermarrying between the society. However, that's not to say there weren't horrendous crimes committed against them, but so have white people. For example, Norway, which as I have it was basically exploited by both Russia and Sweden, yet they still suffer from "privilege" even though they've never had a colony or enslaved anyone.
As a Mexican (in both nationality and ethnicity) I feel that most of the racist stuff you mentioned early in the video (i.e., the costumes) is mostly first a world problem. I say this because most people here wouldn't give a shit, and some might even consider it funny. I admit this perspective is probably influenced by the fact that I live in Mexico and thus I don't have to deal with being a minority, however I can understand that this behaviour is simply a joke, so I don't see why make such a big deal about it. To be honest I feel the left could have a much deeper impact in actually improve the material conditions of the oppressed, if it focussed more on racism when it manifests in real abuse enforced by the economic power dynamics between poor and rich countries.
nailed it.
HOLY SHIT you're making the _exact same points_ I make when defining cultural appropriation - including the *fucking Led Zeppelin example* (I sometimes wonder why that band doesn't come up more often in these discussion, and tbh that might be down to black people not really knowing a lot about Zeppelin).  Have we ever talked about this? Cuz I don't think we have. I know there was a reason I liked you! :D
Contrapoints = God
Brilliant video :)
Damn ... I did a Led Zeppelin with a double cultural appropriative twist then.  I have the copywrite on "House of the Risin' Sun" in 4/4 played with a Russian stomp in the rhythm & played in a classic black boogiewoogie Piano/Drums format which got me 3rd place in a song comp in the 'Country Music" capital of Australia, the Tamworth Country Music Festival. I suppose if I said we played gigs dressed in lederhosen, that would be thread too far? (ps - yes I still get royalties for it .. 5% for arrangement & because the song is 'traditional', I get the other 95% by default)
I like the editing style of your previous videos quite a bit more. They had a better flow to them. This video is a bit more disjointed as a result of those spliced in movie scenes and what not.
A great documentary about culture, symbols and appropriation is the 1953 french film 'Statues also die' which is about african art being exhibited without any context
So damn true. I've had especially Tumblr SJWs attack me on these issues.  If we can't exchange ideas we are isolated and can't ever move forward.
It's all in my head and shoshiety's to blame. I need a safe space away from both.   There's nowhere to hide! You're alright, Nick.
This is really more of an aside, I think. But on the topic of open mockery (in reference to Halloween costumes), I'm just on a bit of a mental tangent. How familiar are you with Japan and modern Japanese culture? Because I'm a bit of a shinnichi (or Japanophile, if you prefer), and there's some really racist stuff that comes out of Japan. And I don't care, really.  White people and black people are both the brunt of tasteless jokes and stereotypes, and there's usually little outrage about it. Personally, I think a lot of it can be attributed to Japan being a pretty insulated and isolated culture... even just in terms of geography, which I think is a major factor. When I see things, that to Western eyes, are blatantly racist, I don't get angry and assume Japanese people are generally bigoted and spiteful. I don't get a high and mighty _Oh, they just don't know any better_ attitude either. Japan is just overwhelmingly populated by an ethnically similar populace, and that's reflected in their perception of the rest of the world. It's very different from the West... though the Trump crowd seems a bit inspired by the basic consept, I think.  Those white people, and their big, pointy faces...  https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YBXzHx-jAIo  https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DCjxzpSrFP4  And this might be the most racist thing I've ever seen in my life, and I can't stop laughing, because of it...  https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LfX8pOiuWFc  No moral point, really. Just a random thought.
Still new to being an active participant in Youtube, but love your vids and look forward to watching all of them.  Great combination of being informative, balanced, and entertaining.    I tend to have grave reservations about the trumpeting of cultural appropriation when it can be applied as artistic censorship.  Innovative artists explore new ideas.  The Led Zeppelin situation is shameful - perhaps an extra dimension of plagiarism, itself deplorable.  As for the rest of the vid, glad to see the distinction made between something that is tactless versus something that is the byproduct rapidly evolving culture in multicultural countries.
It's interesting that you took the approach of examining the attitude of one 'culture' to another rather that one 'individual' to a culture, given the countercultural trend to your vids so far. I mean, cultures are basically an attempt to assign the victories and faults of singular individuals to entire groups, largely based on uncontrollable and unrelated externals such as race or place of birth. Acting as a culture or even acknowledging culture as more than a sum of many individuals' choices seems to me to legitimize that mindset, which skirts dangerously close to corporatism. I mean sure, there's a lot of abstract connotation behind what people wear/eat/repeat, but the idea that those abstracts are fixed to specific arrangements of matter outside of the dictation of the individual - that a person cannot have their own language outside of that spoken by others - substitutes free thought for a prescriptive conservation of formal ideas.  Let's say that every aspect of culture falls within the realm of communication, transferring ideas by way of symbols. It's easy to argue that effective communication can only result from the speaker's conformity to the lexicon of the listener. In other words, cultural identifiers have to be tied to the external world. I think most of the time the debate around cultural appropriation assumes this is true, and that what is being communicated by a person by their dress/mannerisms is in keeping either with the lexicon of their own culture or a language more universally human (smiling, shaking a weapon, yelling). This is the case for both groups you highlight, those who deliberately mock cultures by perverting their symbols and those who assimilate (appropriate?) symbols of cultures they admire. In both cases, the external system of reference is active and predominate.  But I don't think most people use symbols like this at all. Exactly like language, the bulk of symbolism is an individual's attempt to consistently communicate ideas to themselves outside of any external meaning. The purpose of abstracts - of language - is rooted in thinking first, and only then communicating thought. We wear clothes we personally associate with our valued aesthetics of what we perceive, largely without the abstract references others tie to such symbols. We collect trinkets symbolically linked to our memories, the most intimately personal and incommunicable parts of our experiences. It doesn't matter what their value is to any culture but that of the chain-gang of flesh and thought we call an 'individual'.  I hope that makes sense to you, I'd struggle to make it any clearer. Viewing individuals as cultures is largely what's caused this mess. I'm not convinced that there's any way to end it while simultaneously acknowledging a presiding 'cultural identity'.  Thanks for all the great vids, they're very well thought out and endlessly entertaining. I hope you get to make many more.
Exactly how I look at it. I'm not going to quit playing ukulele just because I'm not Hawaiian (or Portuguese), but I'm also not going to cover a song that is obviously not written by me without giving due credit. There is a huge difference between enjoying/taking part in a cultural phenomena and blatant theft; just as there is a huge difference between being a respectful individual and someone who, through ignorance/intent, mocks another culture or race.
When you realise your life has no point then talk identity politics ALL DAY LONG!
Oh. I KNOW what you're saying about SRV
Just a minor point but the popular music industry in America (which was arguably mostly white CAPITALIST SWINE) have been taking music from black artists and notating / redoing/ recording them and selling them under the names of other (pretty exclusively white capitalist pig) artists since around the 1920s, perhaps earlier.   It's a dirty exploitative industry that has been around for a looooong time and it's pretty gross.
Wait the fuck up, you only have 7.4k subs? I thought you were a lot bigger. At the very least you need to be. I agree with you overall for the most part. It is complex, and it can be further "investigated" but for what you had to say here and now I agree.
Part of your commentary reminds me of an article I read a while back speculating about if Black Americans are appropriating African culture. It was problematic in other ways but it raised an interesting question about how we apply these ideas.   Black people in the USA don't really have anything but a racial connection with the continent, and many Black Americans have no earthly idea what part of Africa their heritage comes from. That lack of connection with the origins and intent behind the adopted facets of a culture are a chief complaint raised about cultural appropriation.
I don't even like sushi anyway.
did i see the notre dames mascot in the things that arent bad? not that its on the same level as what happened to native american people obviously, but irish people (and children) were slaughtered by the british army when they were fighting for independence.
As long as I can keep on eating curries, pizzas and yorkshire puddings. Though not all on the same plate, that would be blurring the lines too much.
I love hearing you speak. You're awesome. SANE opinions.
i already know how to read and write those runes, we learned it in school so we could pass notes around so the teachers would not understand what the notes were saying
I have a couple of rules of thumb. 1. Would I be comfortable doing X if people from this culture were outnumbering me in the area while I was doing it? (So, 'yes' to sushi, 'no' to running around in a feathered headdress doing a 'tomahawk chop'). 2. Is this something given or taken? (Yoga- given, brought to America by students of Sri Krishnamacharya- most of whom were Indian. That "Sexy Geisha" costume from K-Mart........not so much). It aint a perfect system, but its a start.
Day of the Dead costumes are particularly... (sigh)... PROBLEMATIC for white Americans to wear during an election year in which a candidate with an estimate 45% of the popular vote behind him declares immigrants from Mexico to be rapists, and wants mass deportation.  Even if the person wearing the costume isn't a Trump supporter, the cultural climate right now is so hostile to people who have immigrated either legally or illegally from Mexico, that wearing Mexican "costumes" is just kinda snide.  Of course, the counter-argument is that the people who wear them just don't give a fuck and... well... yeah.  They don't.  I imagine that the answers they have to MANY questions is "I don't give a fuck".
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lining_out So I guess black people really need to stop singing Gospel music.  Ok seriously, this whole "dominant culture" thing is really just an arbitrary morality tale. Whereby you inject your own set of subjective morals & claim them, without argument or rationale, to be objective truths.  No you don't have to give a fuck about the "appropriation" of Irish culture, but neither does anyone else have to give a fuck about the appropriation of black culture, by the same standards you apply.   You see we live in this global community & whilst once you could make a statement like this and no one could argue against it, because many were painfully unaware that white European culture, really only exists in Europe or anglicised nations in the world. Now we get to see how other dominant cultures act, compare respective morality and ethical standards and actually recognise one thing.  White European culture is objectively better. I mean, shit, where would you rather live. Europe or the Congo?
Another great vid, you're on a fucking role PAL. Have you watched Toolimes video response to Peach on Cultural Appropriation? I think he made good points as well.  Also, fuck Led Zeppelin.
Hey Contra! While I agree with a lot of what you have to say, both in this video and the others, isn't it true that culture to a certain extent has become racialized - i.e. that thanks to racism, gentrification & that, the races are not intermingling properly and as a result there is some validity in saying that culture=race? Not saying it's true, just saying it might have more validity then you give it, considering how easily you brush it off as being Wagnerian.
Isn't the dress more Spanish than Mexican? I may be wrong.
Somebody watched Black Mirror recently
Holy shit that guy probably lost his job after more than 18 years and all you care about is meaningless hair styles!
Your videos are a massive pixel orgy for my brain cells.
As a black person from the West Indies/Caribbean dreadlocks aren't even a religious thing tbh.It's just a way cultural black people of the diaspora(descendants of African slaves in the West) style our hair, both my step-dad and Grandmother had dreads all the way to the back of their knees.  Alot of people here in Trinidad where I live take growing dreads very seriously since its a very time consuming thing with washing and oiling the scalp so you don't get flakes in your hair. I've spent many a Sunday wringing out my Grandmothers hair for hours.  Rastafarianism isn't a big thing outside Jamaica and here in Trinidad we only have a small sect of Rastafarianism call the Bo-boshanties;they only live off the land and can only make money off of things they make themselves.  I've only ever seen non-black people with matted hair calling it dreads in the US or from tourists who vacation here to "find themselves".  And I think you're confusing the Hindu Jata with dreads,its a common misconception so I understand.I see alot of Hindu monks with it anytime I frequent the beach.  I don't necessarily think non-black folks don't have respect black culture,I think they just don't respect black americans.  Plus, alot of the Cultural Appropriation discussion is missing some class analysis and I think that's why it's so messy.   If anyone has any questions about dreadlocks you can ask if you like :)
I'm so glad I never gave up my subscription while you were AWOL. You surpass yourself, Sir.
SJW hypocrisy was indeed exposed. Your justification re. caricaturing cultures was blatantly hypocritical. But it also shows different modes of thinking. You approach these (and presumably other) issues with a collectivist mindset whereas I would do so with an individualistic one. Which is fine, just keep in mind that you are the one who judges a situation differently, solely on the basis of the colour of the skin of the people involved.
7:40 Now that's what I call a Godwin point touch down xD (but it's true)
I laughed so hard!!!! so glad I found your videos, they manage to be a lot more nuanced than "pop feminism" as well as batshit crazy. love it
you have a wife?
I mostly agree with you on this bu I do have one quandary regarding costumes.  Now I don't think I'd ever want to where a generic Native American to a halloween party, but what if I wanted to go as a character such as Nightwolf from Mortal Kombat, or similar?  The character isn't the most original design, but I think he looks pretty cool and I wouldn't want to not go as him because he's Native American as that seems like racist reasoning.  I use Nightwolf as an example of a Native American as that's the group that seems to have the most furore regarding Halloween costumes at the moment, but in Mortal Kombat specifically I've scene depictions of Raiden be criticised for being a white guy rather than Japanese.  However, Raiden as a character of Mortal Kombat isn't Japanese, he's a god who takes the form of a human in clothing that's typical of East Asian styles, including a conal hat.  His name is even officially pronounced "Ray-Den" rather than the correct "R-eye-Den".  So if I was going to a party as him would people be upset at me for being white?  I find this stuff gets convoluted and confusing, and seems to lead to feelings that as a white guy I shouldn't consider cosplaying as the vast majority of my favourite characters from fiction because that might appear racist.
👍
Do Vikings exist today? I don't know but I could see how Irish people would find the Irish sports mascot demeaning.    Anyway, I always don't know where I stand with cultural appropriation, like it's obvious to me what goes too far but I don't know exactly where the line is drawn and damn you for not drawing it for me. But the cultural miscegenation bit appeased my fury.   Now I can go get my nose pierced. Sweet.
Contrapoints, you are my spirit animal.
This is eerily well-timed as I (a thirtysomething who loved 90s r&b and wore cross colors as a 13 yr old) recently got into an exhausting fb thread battle with a group of hipster millennials wringing their hands over whether it was ok to wear flashy gold nameplate necklaces or hightop kicks since it was possible that they were appropriating "authentic" early 90s, POC culture. I won't get too into what was said, but your video pretty much sums up my argument. I was throwing around terms like postcolonial syncertic cultures, postmodern,identity performance, and so on, but today's fresh, young intellectuals aren't hearing it (or not understanding it). There seems to be a misguided undercurrent of essentialism going on with these kids, as if any cultural performance in the postcolonial era can be traced to some pure, ethnic origin.
9:09 Why they gotta be black?
Another great video! :)
Hm, thanks daddy.
So CA is, essentially, copyright infringement on cultural level?
Seriously the best video I've seen on the topic so far. ;)
Finally, a sane view of this topic. Cultural segregation as a solution to this issue always sat uneasily with me. Multiculturalism combined with a "Don't be a dick" attitude is the best way of dealing with cultural appropriation.
People who wear stuff like these traditional native american outfits might be mocking the culture unknowingly, they're not fucking monsters lol. Maybe we have to ask the natives whether they really care or not? They have bigger problems in those shitty reserves that the government doesn't really care about at all.You know some days I feel like wearing a hijab because it looks cool. Whatever, I like your videos.
Your videos are legitimately challenging to more people at once than any other creator I'm subbed to and I appreciate you for it.
Your Spanish was really good!
I think its similar to what you said about rape culture, it exists, but it doesn't mean it's reflected in all of society, there IS a share of people who do oppose it. This very much goes for artists being slammed for dreads. There are people who like them and those who dont, but the phenomenon remains for now.
I really enjoy your videos dude. :)
Great analysis.  We need to strive for a kind of middle-way between (1) the "everything's up for grabs" attitude of those who can't see any difference between cultural appropriation and cultural miscegenation, and (2) the "white people can't do anything from another culture" attitude which interprets the idea like some kind of deontological violation.  Sometimes the line between appropriation and miscegenation can be fuzzy, and you just have to play it by ear and proceed with caution. But other times, it's obvious that it's just a case of a dominant culture taking shit from a marginalised culture and accruing profit/status from it which was denied to the social group it originated from.
that's a very smart take on cultural appropriation 👍
you confunde plagarism with cultural apropiación.
this was great. and it gave me a legitimate reason to dislike led zeppelin. thank you
Not all native american team names are equal.  "The Blackhawks were called the Portland Rose Buds before a coffee baron in Chicago, named Frederick McLaughlin purchased the team in the mid 1920's. The team name came from its first owner, Major Fredrick McLaughlin. As a commander of the 333rd Machine Gun Battalion of the U.S. Army's World War I Expeditionary Force, the Major belonged to the 86th Blackhawk Division and felt a many-faceted affection for the name. He also was aware that a chief Blackhawk headed an Indian tribe that roamed the plains of the Midwest."  The Blackhawks are a lot more like cultural appropriation than they are like "a reduction of an exterminated culture to a cartoon caricature."
"philosophy of science is philosophy enough" Anything else you say is a pure opinion. I disagree with most you say here and leave it to other thinkers to point out what is wrong with it.
There's even issues within the Hispanic community of "appropriating" each other's customs. For example, I had several white friends ask me if it was "okay" for me to have a Dia de los Muertos themed wedding because I'm not Mexican but Cuban. I mean, isn't religious as well as national? Just something that made me take a step back to examine this issue while eating Chiptole :P
Recongnizing a problem exists, but also being able to recongnize the mind complexity of it at the same time, and that at best you have to settle to case by case basis, is such an unconfortable position to have, but sometime the only valid one.
I fucking love you dude
why do you remind me of Razorfist, why? why why why why, you're nothing alike, yet so similar wtf.
>I disagree with other SJWs who think we shouldn't borrow things from other races  ehhh, I feel like this is the sort of strawmanny vague stuff we get from the 'other side' - I don't think I've ever seen anyone claim such a thing, and it unfairly represents the general criticisms of cultural appropriation
One of the problems with left activist culture (and I say this as a leftist) is that it often allows concepts to become context-free rules. I think accusations of cultural appropriation have become this thing where people try to turn pet peeves into a moral dilemma.
Thank you for this video! I've been eager to hear you expand your thoughts on this since you mentioned a little bit of it in a discussion on another channel!
You're brilliant.
terrific
(O.32) - Am I just an obsessive film nerd, or have I just spotted a reference to Jodorowsky's "Santa Sangre" ?
I like people who can see the world in shades of gray.   The binary world view most adopt is divisive, and not nuanced enough to be meaningful moving forward.
4:41 Still a Tower Records where I live in Dublin mwahahahaha.
I swear you and hbomberguy have the best editing in the sjewsphere.
Le sigh . . . I will give "cultural appropriation" some credence once those who believe in it start criticizing people who celebrate Halloween but have absolutely no roots in the ancient pagan Celtic culture from which it originated.  Which will be . . . . never.  I have not once heard a black person or an Asian person or someone from the Middle East being criticized or harangued for participating in Halloween . . . not once . . . aren't they guilty of "cultural appropriation"?
first
