【ＩＭＡＧＩＮＥ　ＨＯＷ　Ａ　ＷＯＭＡＮ　ＦＥＥＬＳ】
Natalie is doing really important work here: keep it up.
*As a gay man* the intro is first deeply unsettling and then oddly reassuring at the idea of never having to do that
Now I’m calling my cat FEEEELOOOIID
Whats that song in the intro tahts super jazzy
I can’t hear Olly quote an incel when we know he’s a rampaging sex chad
NO TALL DICK
the Chad king who loves and appreciates his queen vs. the virgin pickup artist who is afraid of the vulnerability involved in making meaningful connections with other people
Look, I'm a guy. Out of 10 I'm lucky if I'm a 7 on my best day. Probably closer to a natural 5 or 6. I'm ok with this. I realize there is more to people than looks. Personality really does go a long way. These incels seem to be a bunch of 5 and 6s who want to fuck all the tens of their preferred gender. These people are not only delusional, but are every bit as snobbish as the girls they hate for their snobbish behavior. If I've been able to get laid anyone can do it. Not being a total creep really helps fellas. Maybe work on not being a fucking creepy manchild. I bet that will do wonders for your ability to find a relationship and perhaps even get laid.
Jim Sterling once said something along the lines of "Just be yourself. Unless of course you're a shitty person, in which case, try to work on being less of a shitty person." Best dating advice ever.
The funniest part of the incel belief system is that they are the losers in their own fantasies. I'm reminded of the scene in Scrubs where JD was the Alfred to Turk's Batman  But I suppose constantly making themselves victims to women and society has a nihilistic plus side. At least they can blame everyone else for their problems as to avoid ever having to become a better person
Incels just make me happy that I’m really gay because my distrust and weariness of men make me not want to interact w them
Solution: Fuck a Ocean
it freaks me out that ppl like this exist
It was so creepy to suddenly hear Olly reading misogynistic messages
This is the best video I have seen explaining this culture. Thank you for the humor but also sincerity you have shown. I am a happy lesbian who is rooting for these guys to pull themselves up, grab some confidence and enjoy life.
I really dont agree with your gender normative restrictive statements like in 18:13. Theyre harmful. I'm a woman and I send the first message usually since I only swipe who I find hot right. Why not? More girls should be like me.
B R E A D  S C I E N T I S T
I SEE SKULLS...... I live for your education and enlightenment Mommy like #YASS
Soundtrack is FIRE!
There's also a 3rd pill, the Blue Pill, which describes men who support feminism. On forums, the men who fight against Red and Black pills are Blue Pills.
Words can’t express how uncomfortable i felt with that introduction
nice use of fingal's cave overture tho
16:07 it really reminds me of one of my high school friends who actually made a effort to look "good" changed his clothing his hair, being outgoing, making a effort to lose weight and what do you know it he got in relationships with woman go figure.
When I saw other focused topics on incels it seems a lot of them are just overly self conscious of their looks while at the same time they allow anyone to join thier "clubs" which much like feminism "activists" and Peta allows all the crazies to come in and be the loudest of the bunch.
With that Kropotkian manbush, one would've expected that the science he was going to talk about was the sociology behind the Conquest of Bread or something.
Mendelssohn is sexy
JUST ANOTHER FEMINIST BITCH.
this is so good that I don't wanna stop watching but at the same time so cringy it's hard to watch....
1:26 for those who don't need to know how a woman feels.
MRAs have NOTHING to do with the red pill, please get the right information
He doesn't even realize  women haven't talked about Paris Hilton or complained about their periods since 2005, its all about Nietzsche and unmasking the lizard people now
09:10 Seeing "men's rights activists" being mentioned alongside incels and p(r)ick-up artists makes me sad. It's sad that there're little to no movements advocating for men's rights and not being at war with feminism. Men's rights worth to be fighting for include getting rid of toxic masculinity and the perception of men as "the disposable gender".
Incels should just move to Colombia the majority of women here don’t care about physical appearance when it comes to dating
"At least these pricks care enough about my pussy to be an asshole about my dick"  And in that moment, he knew that true love did exist, despite his weak chin and narrow shoulders.
I did not expect to experience Thalassophilia today.
"Atleast these pricks care enough about my pussy, to be an asshole about my dick." Oh wow. That's a sentence not everyone can say. I love it.
Google “Natalie Wynn before and after.”  Before her transition, she was a “Chad.”  But that aside, great video.
This is bizarre as shit
4:39 - Frankly; "Becky's" a lot cuter (even looks like Rey from Star Wars and she's adorable and awesome!). "Chad" looks like something out of Cronenberg's version of "THE THING".
Friends,  I understand where you are now, because I, too have struggled with feeling isolated, and being completely and totally alone. I can't say I was an Incel but in some of my darkest moments I experienced the delusional hopelessness I know you are feeling too. I know what it feels like to hate yourself so much that yo start to obsess about   what you would change about yourself that spirals into something uncontrollable that consumes your thoughts. I know the feeling of desperately wishing someone would reach out, offer a hand, know someone cared for you, or even just say hello. While I was in the lowest of my lows I made a vow to be a friend to those who need it and I fully intend to uphold that promise in any way I can. Now, I am not just here to say that it gets better, even though i my experience it does, slowly but surely, because if you're like me you've heard that slogan more times than you can count and it does lose all meaning after a while. Instead I am here to say that if no one else does, I love you. I will always be cheering you on in spirit. And even though your brain may tell you otherwise, you deserve love and happiness. Even if you've fallen into a shady community that you feel you are stuck in because if you left, you wouldn't be able to have anybody to talk to and at the same time you feel you would be judged for even being there in the first place. I understand. The transition is going to be difficult but it will be worth it and if you change for the better society will forgive you. And if you need someone to talk to, I am here and a great friend.  (I promise I'm not spam)
the beginning reading is so painful and cringeworthy lmao I'm pretty sure my soul left my body while watching it
4.2K dislikes must be from incels and mgtows 😂
This was pretty amazing.
So like I gotta wierd chin but I’m not a incel lol
Well Done
You're awesome! Subscribed.
“I feel bad for men in dating apps”. Yeah Grindr comes to mind.
I need a Chadpreet in my life.
Well thank you about that bit of trans lingo, I am now racking my brain on if I've ever called a trans woman "hon" and trying to reassure myself that it's probably contextual and they likely wouldn't have been hurt by my unknowing mistep. (But seriously, great content, so glad I happened to find your page)
i agree. i am a fat, balding, depressive addict with a decent bone struktur. i bang all the time.
it literally just feels like their shitty ass personalities are preventing relationships.
"femoid" sounds so endocrinological, Ill start thinking about my ovaries as femoids lol
question: do you have a water fetish
WAIT THAT'S NOT HOW THE SONG WENT
Olly just sent some shivers down my spine.
Inciels: *Exist*  Asexual people: Bro wtf?!
Just watched a BBC3 documentary on incels, which was more about interviewing different people who identified as incels and why etc, but honestly this video is way more entertaining and informative about the whole spectrum of inceldom ideology. I keep coming back to it because it's so good.
misrepresented.
without incels girls like me wouldn't be able to get into relationships
The sea... Damn. Te llena por dentro y por fuera, y sana cada célula de tu cuerpo.
CHADPREET IM DED XD
I think the saddest part is how they idealize sex and romantic relationships to this ridiculous idolized standard. I mean those things are great and all but it's not all life is and you can live a full happy life without them. I think mgtows realize this but instead of basing thier singleness to self happiness they harbor bitter feelings towards women and blame it on them. It's so weird
Lmao I wonder what incels think about lesbians
I hate tindr. I wait for them to talk to me first now because why bother with someone who whines about men opening with hey but gives nothing to go off of for anything more substantive than she doesnt like hey
Putting aside than I am flabergasted by my own "gender" I learned a lot aboit this community, as someone that can't get laid either ( I don't event try so entirely my fault) and see how one's mindset can shift into those kind of thinking. Great video.
Let me know when you're coming to London and I'll show you around.
Brought here by the ABC podcast Stop Everything Your show is a tonic. So happy I came across you Thanks
Not to be weird or anything like that, but I think you're beautiful.
*while this video is great, some of the comments she cites, for example those from "MutedAdvice1" on reddit, are clearly from accounts meant to discredit that community.... they're made ridiculous intentionally.  Parodies.  Caricatures.
I just loved the way you ended this
29:27 - Wait a minute, that voice, I just realised... that's PhilosophyTube! Edit: just looked at the comments realised that you credited good ol' Olly as the voiceover
What the shit is this fuck? I knew what incels were in theory but...Jesus Christ on sale
Genuinely curious if any legit incel’s watched this
Bitch if a man was baking me bread I’d be fucking overjoyed. Why you panicking that I’m going to say you aren’t a man???
Fifth base made me leave a wet spot I laughed so hard.
I’m actually a lesbian 😂 but this shit is interesting to study  Edit: I love this video lol Hilarious and weirdly educational 🧐 Dammit I’m subscribing
Holy shit, it does always go back to the skull.
I just feel so sorry for these people.  I am not being abusive.  I wish I knew how to help them.
How about going to Colombia or the Ukraine and getting mail order brides?
I feel like alot of pedophiles become that way because of incel thinking
20:50 I just need this timestamp.
Wow this was super well made! The staging, the lighting, everything was so nice. It was hard to do work while I listened to this video because I kept wanting to look at it lol. Thanks for making the video I learned a lot about something I knew only vaguely about!
Did....you just finish by telling incels to walk into the sea...? I guess that would work as well as therapy...   In seriousness, though, a really thought-provoking comparison between different groups that hang around the fringes of the internet. And a good reminder of how terrible Tinder is.
I've watched this video so many times but I just realized  18:27  her lip make up got fucked? idk  good video tho I fucking love it yes yes yes yes
You're not ever gonna play Fortnite
This reminds me a lot of the pro-eating disorder community, as well as "meanspo". I can't believe I used to stay days on proana sites and read those awful things. You made me look at incels in a different light!
M E N.   L I K E.   S C I E N T I F I C.   T H I N G SSSS  !
i feel like dating outside your league (whether above or below it) applies to everyone.... there’s no one group that’s better or worse we’re all human beings just trying to figure it out ... wish we could all stop fighting each other on which group has better morals because each DEFINITELY has its bad eggs....
33:36 ope, me😂
complaining about not getting laid isnt gonna get you laid any faster
The start was disturbing, as a gay guy.
How is happiness directly linked to weather you get laid or not?  Thanks for talking about the fact that when we dive into these spaces it hurts our mental health. When I found out about Incels I got angry and dug deep. But it made me angry away from the computer. What media we intake (including comment sections) effects us.  P.S. are you a water sign? Lol
It's unfortunate that #ripbianca is what brought me to learning about these people 😞
Wait are you from Baltimore???
As someone who has lived unknowingly between Chads and Incels... here's a clue no one has mentioned yet. No matter how many Stacys, Beckys, or sheep Chads fuck, they will never be happy. For different reasons too. Some age out and can't keep the glory days going and just become ridiculously annoying; the fall from the top is long and the splat is shattering. Others have depth to their soul and used for meat just like Stacys, and wish to have actual love and can't ever find someone to bond with, no matter how much pussy they go through, even if its as easy as sorting vinyls at the record store for them.   Happiness comes from believing you have worth and commanding the world around you to treat you as such. Different from demanding... any spoiled kid can cry to be noticed, but commanding respect and love means you are impacting the lives of others in such positive ways, people can't help but take notice and pay respect. Get the fuck off the internet and go make the world a better place in every way you can imagine. Pick up garbage, give compliments, smile at people, do forearm curls at the gym until your watch needs another link in it, troll incel forums and tell them ITT: stupid people who don't know they're stupid but could be worth something with consistent effort. Whether you think you matter to this world or you don't, you're right. But you get to choose which one, no matter how you look.
"Hello boys, lets talk about bone structure"  Thanks Contra
Roosh took the bread pill
31:17 I appreciate the use of Chopin.
There is no such thing as incels. Their problem, is that they are guilty of doing exactly what they accuse woman of doing  - trying to sneak on up that "sociatal rating" ladder let's face it. Some people are just ugly, no matter what they do. Genetics a a random ass bitch. If you were to put any value into this rating system, let's say a guy is a 3 on the scale - do you know how many fucking plain jane women are out there who also fall into category? There are millions upon millions of people in this world, and only a hand full of them turn out to be the "Paris Hilton's". And what's even more fucked about a 3 guy looking past 3 girls, is that the 3 girl is likely going to have much more common interests with you than a pretty party girl anyway. You can fucking nerd out together and shit, and that beats the fuck out of slipping your hot dog into some meat curtains. Sex lasts for a few minutes, companionship can be forever. I'm not even a "Chad" condescending, I'm a Shrek looking motherfucker, over 300 pounds, and well below average looking dude - and I've had several long lasting relationships that, *gasp* even included maxing the sex.
Thank you for your videos Natalie. I watch everything you do ❤️
A Chad or a lad
iui i read those trheads and make those negative comments everyday it makes me feel good that half knowimg that they might commit suicide and i bet its 50/50 incel to cunt ratio
Incels are the most discriminated against group in society today and the bigotry that is being spewed by the woman in the video and the people in this comments section makes me sick to my stomach.
Gracias por la profundidad de tu análisis. Saludos desde La Plata, Argentina.
THAT SKULLMETER!
I hope you were joking about the facial surgery! You are so beautiful!
Just gonna throw in the fact that regular tongue posture and the kinds of food you eat affects the development of your jaw.   Resting the tongue on the roof of the mouth encourages upward growth of the face. Chewing tougher food, such as meat, rather than stews or soup, helps build a stronger jaw. These are just a few examples, look up "orthotropics" for much more detail.   When an incel blames their "inceldom" on the structure of their skull, imagine them only eating tinned soup because they can't make anything more complicated, and breathing through their mouth with a slack jaw.
I'm new here, coming hot on the heels of the Incel documentary and I've gotta say there's something seriously of with this aquaphillia going on here. It's just not right. Sincerely, a Thassalophobiac.  Also, pretty neat video. It was cool too, I guess.
I'm what you would call a pizzacel. I'm addicted to pizza so that I spend all my money on pizza. I cant do anything about it. I need ma pizza. Sorry women ma dick is for ma pizzas.
I’m just here for the triggered anti-incel comments
Can’t stop staring at that bit of extra lipstick on the right side of her upper lip
You are so elegant!
OMFG SOMEONE FINALLY SAID IT! I would’ve given Elliot some mad boy pussy if he wasn’t straight...and a total narcissist psycho. :)
30:09 Masochistic Epistemology: Whatever Hurts is True. Holy crap! Talk about an Aha! moment. I literally (and I mean that in the literal sense) had to stop the video and just put my head back and close my eyes. This is some deep stuff going on here. I love your videos. They and you are brilliant. Thanks for making my brain do some work.
Drugcel? Wow... I was getting laid while I was an IV heroin user. These people are silly
"... You will never know how this feels, because your sceleton is small". LOL!!!!!! :D
Anjir..........
tranny
I lost braincel
Alleighty then... i'm going to go proposition the ocean waves i'm sure we gave similar interests such as drowning in salt or enjoying some seafood haha so ASMR video when?
Came here from a BBC documentary posted on Reddit. It was not good. But you - you are a magnificent beast, and we of YouTube are unworthy of such biting wit interwoven flawlessly with scholarly analysis (not to mention production value). Excuse me while I go catch up on all of your videos.
Okay, I tried, I really tiers to watch this, but literally everything, literally every single thing she said in the first 10 minutes is either wrong or disgustingly misleading. Is this what breadtube is? Guess I'll stick to the other side, thanks.
Hi incels in the comments
oof i couldn't make it through that intro
I lost it at Chadpreet
Why is no one talking about the chad circumference?
I identity as a fartcell, personally. I will never know the touch of a woman because I can't contain my big stinky farts and all the women in a 10 foot radius go "Pee-hew!" and run away when I let out a smelly stinkeroonie from my bumbum
Lol, you seem to be an all-round(smart, funny, gentle spirited plus really beautiful exterior too) beautiful person but I don't think you're getting what Peterson says.   You can always do what you want and let what you do describe you, you know. But you keep fighting nomenclature. XX or XY. Simple. Like apples will never be oranges or oranges will never be apples. It's not the outer crust that makes an apple apple. It's the specific gene sequence.   The phenotype is there, as an expression of genotype. You cannot change phenotype and expect that to automatically change your geno. Cause and effect do not work backwards in this case.
;-;
This sounds like next-gen Eugenics...
"Catastrophizing" Who knew I would learn something about my anxieties regarding employment and financial security in a video about incels. The internet is a fun place.
I'm bi and, no joke, 98 out of 100 right swipes for men have been reciprocated
I lost my virginity late. I got laid eventually. Just always be working on yourself, always practice empathy, and put yourself out there. ( Assume that there are others who are interested in you as bonus advice)
It’s three in the morning, wh—why am I here..? please send help and corn chips
isn't that spoken by Philosophy Tube?
wait wha.. baltimore..
I had to skip that opening read, I hurt myself I cringed so bad.
Thank you
Yee haw
You should honestly just buy a luxury car
I cant believe this guys really think that getting bitches is all genetic, what loosersss
omg these people are so sad
OMG FOPPINGTONS LAW IS SO FACTS WTFFF
I think id rather be called a bitch than a femoid
Im 18 seconds in and I wanna throw up, these guys so cringe. No sympathy for nobody w no bitches
Could you do a video on how /pol/ has a similar effect but with racism on even with people who are actively anti racist. The vocab gets entrenched in your head. It would be cool if you explored this psychological phenomenon.
I work out in a Black Ops t-shirt, guess I'm an incel. Fuaaaaark
it is really sad how electionfags and polniggers invaded every other board on the site. they turned every single one to shit, i mean, it was kinda funny in 2016 but it got old fast.
How about the curious psychological phenomenon where you ignore positive comments and intentionally seek out negative comments?  Masochistic epistemology makes sense. Whatever hurts seem true, because what's hurting seems real and not a fake. Maybe it's that sense of discovering the lies that society has put that excites you but you could be very wrong.   But let me propose an additional explanation :  Cognitive dissonance is also adding in on this behavior : because you believe what you believe is true (negatively), you basically can't stand or respect, listen to opposite beliefs contradicting your own...  That is due to being unable to change your worldview, but why? Perhaps, your identity is too tied to your own beliefs, and changing your beliefs requires changing your identity which is way too hard to do. That is : you must let go of your Ego, of your beliefs. Your beliefs shouldn't define your identity. The second explanation that I can think of, is confirmation bias about your own beliefs. It's very simple in effect here, as you simply ignore whatever is not according to your beliefs.
This video is a fantastic explanation and example of human psychology taking a dark turn... It's truly scary what we are capable of doing to ourselves, and to others, for the rationalization spiral to go on a catastrophizing turn... And we're all doing it in some extent.  And thanks to that, I've understood where my depression came from. Loss of hope, due to catastrophizing the future. That's a hell lot of incorrect assumptions and logical errors and cognitive bias.
I'm so confused now.
(Finds plenty of fish app on phone) Oh, hay, I thought I deleted this account years ago. I wonder if I have any messages...   0 messages
i like contrapoints. these videos are aesthetic
You ever just date a 'Tyrone' named Tyrone.
oh my god women on tinder are treated how attractive guys are treated on grindr. literally theres a level of physical attractiveness that you display in your profile photo and suddenly you no longer need to send messages because every dude on the sight is trying to hop on it
For you incels  Im a short average looking man I was an alcoholaddict for many years and got laid a lot Got sober but then got fat - still got laid Started working out and i´m now in shape - Gets laid but not more or less than before    women likes sex just as much as men do and i have never lied to get into bed with anyone.  The problem is not with women, the problem is with you guys Try treating women with basic respect and dont think that they owe you something, becouse they do not. If a girl rejects you, to bad! there are millions more. Ive been rejected many times for everyone ive acctually slept with, this is called  life.  Stop watching porn and get to know a girl in real life WITHOUT coming on to her or talking/joking about sex all the time (yes i know you do this) When you have female friends you start too see everything with "different eyes" and you might acctually learn something
The ending is brilliant!
You are a goddess and I will be honest I didn't 'clock' you as a transgender until you told me. Love your wit, charm, high quality valuable videos! Also think you are totally gorgeous.
Doesn't that sound like Olly?
I have wrists so petite I wear women’s watches, my hair looks like a burnt bush, I’m only 165 tall, my face needs moisturizer, and I’m still a long way from being fit (I’m working on it ok!) , yet I still have a gf... know why’s that? Cause I genuinely try my best to be an honest person, judge someone by their character and not physical features, and I value honesty and altruism. I’m living proof that the only thing that will prevent you from love is YOURSELF!
There's this boy i know that calls me Hon all the time, now that i know what the word means, it just makes me sad
Wow, 'Skull-people'?  Even I, a disembodied head floating in meatspace, has never been referred to as such.
Fuckin' BRILLIANT!!!!
just did my psych of gender presentation on this! thanks so much Natalie ❤️
My goodness, incels seem to think the world is always cruel. They need to step back and love themselves.
Random YouTube pedestrian, just passing by. Carry on.
Hey Natalie, Quinton recommended this video and damn am I glad I watched.  I didn’t want it to end!   Hilarious, informative, insightful; all that good stuff.  Oh, and those ASMR skills!  Definitely going to check your other stuff.    Just briefly, I especially liked how you tied the incel ideology to the pick-up artist one.  Reading The Game was fun and there _were_ things I learned from it, but the ideology – and, of course, the terminology – kept creeping into my mind in unhealthy ways.  Cynicism to the max.  When I just dropped the whole thing, life became much better.      I hope your message of being aware of and managing your worldview reaches as many people as possible. Cheers from Canada!
this was phenomenal lol i was pleasantly surprised
You look exactly like a woman
I like to think someone came up with all of the terminology as a joke but then it got out of control
Please don't shave any bone matter off your face, you're gorgeous.
Dude, I thought I knew about this shit.  These people are sexual determinists.
I AM ULTRA MASCULINE
Its sad how people can just dive down the rabbit hole of misery and then build a whole world around their view. Great video!
It might just be me but, at least according to the art style, the Becky is way more hotter than the Stacy.  Then again, that might just be because their 'Virgin Walk' applies near-exactly to me (except my coat and clothes are all blue).
Holy fuck I just found your channel and I’m in love
Found you because of quintin reviews video! Definitely the best video essay I have ever watched
The two ways to overcome nihilism according to Nietzsche are arts and denial of pleasure. Basically deny yourself all pleasure or indulge in the arts and create something
The alpha cock carousel, how can you say that without laughing
Goddamn that opening was a roller coaster of emotions
I hate that I know of their existence, but apparently the incels of gone emo and there's now a subset of them called "Darkcels".  I wish I were joking.
Baker: nah cuck soyboy Breadscienist: alpha male rght there
hey incels you know that cute girl becky who used to be your best friend from school back in the day, shes now being piped out to other men not called chad, but steve , ross, malcom, they are all in the I.T department they are like you but you dont have the balls to believe in yourselves, now Becky is getting engaged to Ishmal, Ishmal makes her laugh and fucks her good, he dont give a shit what people think he knows hes Indian and stands out as a minority but hes nice and people love him, ehs one of those guys that are just universally loved because hes got style his own style with everything he does... then there's you... sulking hopelessly trying to reason your incelebacy with ideologys... fucking idiots... @ContraPoints your fucking hot.... ride me
incels are the reasons why some girls are lesbians
I'm laughing hard at the 'ricecells' and 'currycells' part, Chang and Chadpreets lmao, I wonder what their Becky and Stacy counterparts are
so me wanting to shoot speedballs in the work toilets makes me an incel ? ahhh the logic....
I love it how you start by saying you dont want to mock but understand, then immediately mock. I mean its pretty much impossible not to mock these pathetic cunts
Thanks Quinton
I think I found the key to not feeling sexual frustration when you're denied by someone you were attempting to start a sexual relationship with      Become Aesexual!!
wow Roosh V likes to bake bread what a beta cuck lmao, what a fucking pâtissier
Biological Sequin-spotting 2019
Well, now I look at moby dick in a completely new way.
12:30 Imagine being so insecure in your own masculinity that literally feeding yourself needs to be defended.
Has anybody ever met a incel out in the wild ? I think it might be a urban legend a internet hoax  !
i'm never gonna experience that bc i dont have a penis bitch
"At least this pricks care enough about my pussy to be an asshole about my dick"   I... I don't... Just wow. How the fuck does someone come up with something so clever?
I cannot complain.  As a 52 yo white male I've had my fair shake when it comes to dating and sex.  More than a fair shake actually.  Nowadays, I just want it to mean something.
What about those lovible guys Bevis and Buthead.
isn't it fem-oid not fee-moid
Just play with her hair for a bit and take care of yourself easy nigga
Let me chadsplain something to you bra, I used to be what you would call an incel. What you need is to study what you love, sex. Not from a self-help book. You need an academic study of the fettish community.
I lived three years of my life just trying to get on with a girl, pretty much abandoning any sense of self-worth in order to just impress her in any way, it became incredibly toxic, she would call me names, insult me, treat me like shit, and sometimes I reacted doing the same thing to her, until finally it got to physical abuse between us, pretty much ruining our entire relationship. I admit she wasn't the best person, to this day friends and family keep telling me that she was the one in the wrong, but I don't like to act like I didn't do anything bad, I was that annoying "nice guy" without even knowing it, I was manipulative, selfish and let my anger get the better of me. That's why I learned that true fullfilment is reached within one-self, not by getting a girlfriend, I'm obviously not saying I won't ever have one, but it's important to me that we as people recognize that we need to take care of ourselves mentally before we decide to be in a relationship. To this day I'm still learning to love myself, and no longer do I desire for the approval of just one person. To all you people who consider yourselves "incels": Things are not gonna get better unless you make them better yourself, is not about you nor is it about that chick that doesn't want to be with you, is the fact that we're all human beings and we have our own individual needs, and a woman is not to blame because she doesn't want to have sex with you, that's her decision to make, I know it cliche but just be yourself, and stop idealizing sex like it's the most amazing thing in the world, because you're only gonna feel worse for not having it.  And to ContraPoints: I know I'm pretty late into watching this video, but thank you it actually helped me and made me feel more confident for my story, I'm usually very uncomfortable when it comes to talking about this sorts of stuff, of just flat-out admiting I have not had sex yet, but this video made me feel very easy-going with it. Seriously, thank you Natalie.
part 3 forward is sass central & I love it
This made me sympathise with incels even more. Great work with your propaganda.
I’m here from Quinton reviews. This is great :)
The sea is pretty sexy let's be real here
I cant with the bleeps 😭
this is just  s a d
this video was a yiker and a half
if they gained empathy theyd grow
knowing you will be in pain can be an addictive comfort and a self fulfilling prophesy
just learned a lot about the men around me now that i live in california
what happens to walrus incels in the wild?  look that shit up.  yellow tusks.
17:50   🐈 🐈 🐈
I feel like a lot of men have been in this headspace at one point in time maybe not as deep as getting fully redpilled but before losing your virginity you start to wonder “will I ever get laid” I feel like If this continues last pubert into adulthood those feelings can internalise and develop into “I’m not getting laid because...” to rationalise it
Gmork the wolfcel https://youtu.be/kOPAW7Em8mE
this is so sad.... yet i feel so light
its over
I actually think this is a very insightful video and can help people.  Good work!
Really liked the video, as a 27 year old who's never so much as held a girl's hand, I really feel like you nailed a lot of the key points of how it feels. Having said that, here's how I would describe my feelings on the matter;   I think a major thing about it that a lot of people either don't quite realise or forget is that very few people start out thinking in this way, it's mostly learned behaviour. I was bullied and ostracised pretty badly in both primary and secondary school; I had straight up no friends in primary and in secondary I eventually ended up with a couple of "friends" who were very abusive, but I stuck around them because I honestly didn't want to go back to being alone. This state of affairs had me leave school having never experienced romance or true friendship, and left me with little in the way of confidence or self esteem. Even now I only have two people I would truly class as friends, but the upshot of this is that they're absolutely fantastic people and they 100% make my life better in every way. Unfortunately, even as adults a lot of people who turn into incels never find this friendship and I think many incels are near-irreparably damaged by childhood experiences.   So these incels have already entered the dating scene with a big handicap, they lack confidence, which many girls will tell you is absolutely crucial in dating. For me, this point was where the death spiral really started. Looking back, I would class the person I was back then as pretty typical, my friends and I would go pubbing and clubbing whenever we could, we were all on the pool team and darts team for our local pub, all that good stuff. The difference between me and my friends was when it came to girls, both of them had had school girlfriends, and both of them had little trouble getting girls as adults, while I would put in infinitely more effort to get girls and have all of it result in nothing. This in itself is incredibly frustrating, I spent years in abject confusion about what exactly it was that was wrong with me to make me so exceptionally undesirable. Eventually, when getting rejected, I straight up began to ask girls that very question, I would politely explain the difficulty I was having and ask what it was that made them reject me. The answers, as you might expect, were mostly complete vaguery, to the point that I can't recall a single one of them in specifics. This only added to the frustration, especially since I could rely on my friends to tell me truthfully what the issue was, except that they were just as confused about it as I was, in fact one of my friends, for a period, began to get genuinely angry when a girl would reject me.   The rejection hurts, as everyone knows. I became progressively harder to keep trying, to keep putting my best foot forward and try to approach girls with a smile. My friends both settled down, got married and had kids, and as a result we very rarely go out together anymore, and even then it's a quiet night, not the 'paint the town red' nights we used to have. With that, my chances of meeting a girl in-person had failed. It sounds awful to say it, but being at my friends' weddings were one of the hardest emotional experiences I've ever had to deal with.   So I gave it a break for a couple of years, and eventually turned to internet dating, right around the time Tinder was becoming popular, I was pretty excited, I figured the sheer volume of people I would be able to meet this way guaranteed that somebody would eventually say yes, I was older, wiser and I had grown a beard that everyone said made me look better, I was ready.   So I spent as much time as I could on dating sites and dating apps, got my favourite photos, read up on how to write a good bio, I thought I couldn't lose, I could put my best foot forward every time and I wouldn't even have to put on that fake smile.   And this is the point in this video that most resonated with me; the radio silence. I have used Tinder for I guess around 4 years now, Plenty of Fish and OKCupid about the same amount of time, and Bumble since it's been out, I have never gotten a match, never had a response to one of my messages, and never received a message that wasn't a bot.   I can honestly say that this complete and utter lack of communication is sheer poison, but to this day I'm still active on all these sites and apps. I would compare online dating (for an incel like me at least) to a slot machine, the chances of winning are tantamount to nil, and you pay with each pull of the lever, but I can't stop because next time I'm going to win, the next swipe is going to change my life, I just know it.   And just like that I'm back to being confused, except this time I had less options for what was wrong; it had to either be my photos or my bios, so I experimented with both, changed each frequently, and still got nothing back. This was, for the first time in my life, when I really started to wonder if I was simply unattractive. It's well known that while irl dating isn't wholly based on looks, online dating absolutely is, especially with Tinder and Bumble. I figured that if it's all based on looks, and I wasn't having any success, then I must not look good. Hear hooves think horses, so I figured.   Except that I'd never gotten that notion anywhere else, nobody had told me I was unattractive, I look in the mirror, even today, and can't see myself as unattractive, sure I'm no megastar model, but I'm not Quasimodo either. Then I began to think to myself; of course nobody is going to call you ugly to your face, least of all your friends and family, and you're not exactly going to be the most objective opinion on your own looks.   This is, I think, where the addiction to these "selfie threads" comes from, for incels. There's obviously something wrong with you, otherwise you wouldn't be in the situation you're in, and here's this group of people who are willing to tell you, in no uncertain terms, what that something is. It's honestly gratifying in a horrendous sort of way, now you know that there truly is something wrong with you, just like you thought, and as an added bonus, it's something that's not your fault.   This point, for me, never really manifested, as I said, I don't see myself as unattractive, and I've never gotten feedback from the internet on the matter, least of all other incels. But the end point for me was largely the same; it's not your fault.   That's a nice thought, it might even be true. Obviously I recognise that I can make changes; get my hair cut more often, get a professional photographer to take my pictures, hit the gym and stop looking like Skeletor. Except that with that thought comes the inevitable counterpoint; what if these incels are right, what if it is all skull science and all that effort and expense will count for nothing because I'm getting cucked by millimetres of bone.   As for how I feel now, for all of this, I just feel pretty crap. I see-saw between not trying at all to trying my hardest, and I still get absolutely nothing. I realise that if I don't try then it won't happen at all, but every time I do try I end up in no better position and feeling a lot worse. It's even starting to hurt physically, I get this dull ache in my chest, interspersed with short bouts of sharp pain in the same area, apparently stress can do that. I suppose I'm probably depressed at this point, I feel like I have every right to be, I'm not too keen on getting it diagnosed because I'm worried that acknowledging it is going to make it real, it's not like the doctor can prescribe me love anyway.   Anyway if you're still reading this, thanks. It felt pretty good to put all of this into words, I don't tell anyone any of this, I don't want to be seen as that kind of person. I guess you maybe learned something about what it's like to live this sort of life, I know incels bring it on themselves a lot of the time, but I hope in the future people can be a bit more empathetic towards this sort of thing.   tl;dr I want to get off Mr. Bones' Wild Ride
I have no friends, no lover and my Mother died when I was a kid.  I've been on a waiting list for therapy and addiced to drugs for years. The extremism is simply what comes into your brain after long term emotional distress, alienation, isolation and lack of self love. The problem is, your personality becomes increasingly emotionally claustrophobic and scary to people, and so the people who do come close always disappear and ghost you, which adds fuel to increasing rage. What can be done about it? Nothing.
17:51 Now we're talking, that's just the right stuff
It is really social skills more than everything,  and I have realized it over time,  and honestly it is cathartic to watch this video before I became worse,  kinda feel better watching this
JFK! Just blame Darwin and F**k each other.
I thought 'hon' was a short and endearing term for 'honey'.  What....?
You make the internet a better place. I hope this level of thoughtfulness and compassion becomes the norm.
Masterpiece.
good god this was so educational and enjoyable. thank you for existing.
I blame santa claus, when as a child everyone lies to you to make you feel good, then everything you learn is that truth is ugly. Therefore, everything bad must be true
i wouldve never known that she used to be a man
Shallow video. I expected you to debunk all the "red pill theory" but you just talked about yourself, called them woman haters, mysoginists, and mass shooters (as any of other tribes in society dont have their own psycopaths) with cool lighting, editing and pretencious tone, ironically validating their point, trying appeal to emotions to hide facts. Self-centred and boring.
I guess I'm an incel. Except all my hate is channeled inwards, I don't really blame anyone else for my situation.
Oh how easy it is to whine about how ugly you are and how it is genetically inherent and nothing that you can do about it, rather than acknowledging that there is something seriously wrong with you personality / mental state
YOU’RE NOT GETTING REJECTED JUST BECAUSE YOU’RE UNATTRACTIVE, WOMEN JUST DON’T LIKE YOU BECAUSE YOU HATE WOMEN
So, having a penis entitles one to intercourse with another person? That’s interesting.  Maybe their perception of women is the problem, not the women. Ick! Why do incels want anything to do with women if we are so awful?
I have a solution: incels need to just start fucking one another
P.S. you ARE really pretty.....and that's coming from an African man.
i am astounded at the sheer lack of capacity some people have to just be fucking normal. my mind is battling being dumbfounded by incels and having sympathy for them. how is it possible for a human to hit such a rock bottom?
Incels = first world problems
Incels are queer. This is the truth
Yeah, I stopped having sympathy for them when they started attacking and belittling the struggles of women (myself included) in social anxiety support forums. We don't have issues because men generally approach more? Fuck off. https://www.reddit.com/r/AvPD/comments/bzkrvz/current_issue_with_our_recent_batch_of_incels/
is this actually real? have they tried tinder? :S EDIT: ok i should have watched to the end before posting :D
so you generalized all incells by some post on the internet. well done, dumb trash
20:32 I really appreciated this part. Gave me a lot to think about. Thank you for saying it.
Incels are group of mostly young men with constant fixation on their physical qualities and the lives that others are living. Many people mock and belittle,try to understand, and try to redirect their views on life in general and on women. I guess the best cure for an incel is time and hope that things can change. We can all tell incels to go to the  gym, to take a shower, to go therapy, to just get a hobby, but the root behind all of this still remains social anxiety
Well shit... I just wanted to say, for the sake of any incells or less than confidant guys on here. There are a lot of people who are demiromantic, and/or demisexual. They wont judge you by appearance first, they form relationships based on personality, but for this to happen you have to get out into the world and meet them. Try going to lgbtq events and you'll find them there. My first boyfriend was not society's idea of attractive but he was wonderful and I loved him because of who he was and not what he looked like; we have remained friends to this day and he is happy in a new relationship.
I would watch an entire video of Natalie just listing examples of why she hates Tinder
Just looking at these comments, is it outrageous for me to believe all this criticism of incels lately isnt going to influence the creation of an entirely new breed of incels that try to mask or drop their misogynistic ways, or worse yet, evolve it into something more readily accepted by society?
Legalize prostitution. Everyone needs to be touched. Or this this happens..... happened. Thx America.
Incels haven't  been with enough chics to know that most of them are pretty gross (just like men)...8/10 ladies are un-datable, let alone Marriage material.
See for me roasties is shorthand for roast potatoes
The concept of hypergamy is interesting because I've always found women and girls to do the opposite (in my experience). I feel like a lot of hetero/bi women go for less attractive men, because despite being quite attractive, they are insecure about themselves, so they date someone less attractive with the mentality of "I'm doing you a favour by being with you, because I'm more attractive than you and I could do much better than you". So they kinda mentally hold that over them, usually subconsciously.   I don't know if there's an actual term for this, but yeah. I've found that to be pretty common.
I'm skinny, shitty hair, no chin, and poor bo. I still get laid. Give up self-loathing and love yourself. Loving yourself attracts others
Hello, member of r/inceltears (group about exposing the horrible ideology of incels). The ideology isn't just that of a lonely guy. They wish harm, and even death, upon most women, if not, all.
But.... butt what if you're just gay? I rly don't understand this incel community at all lol.   It barely remembers races other than white people, but being gay, asexual, etc just doesn't exist I guess. What a strange, egocentric community. Like wowee, all those conclusions only make sense if you're a straight white male that doesn't realize any other perspective other than themselves.... the end.   I (literally) can't even pretend to understand it, as anything even remotely like my worldview seemingly doesn't exist in theirs, I guess. Very strange.
wait... you used to be a MAN? spoopy.
Whenever I'm losing my mind I come back to this video. Thanks a lot Natalie.
Do you know DJ Pride Vanity?
I'd love to meet the editor and researchist of your cam show. ;)
I laughed so hard
you mean r/niceguys.  That's another name they are called also.
Had to skip the intro because my vagina literally escaped into itself
... Came back for a rewatch. Ftm here who recently got off /lgbt/.   Used to post photos of myself to passgen (the threads where what Natalie talks about took place.) Always did it when I felt unsure about myself, and I walked away feeling more secure, if not better about myself.  I think the security of that "truth" (*heavy* quotations) is why theories like these gain so much traction. It allows you to stagnate, so you stay comfortable in the confines of the worldview, without going through the pain of genuine self-reflection and the discomfort of change. The change to get a girlfriend. The change of transitioning.  So I feel you, and I, too, pity the incels. But it's important to keep your room clean, even if it sucks.
Never really knew incels was that common and didn't know they thought these things its sad really instead of trying to get someone they put their selves down nd put other men up but also seem to hate regular girls nd put up hot girls go after ppl on the same level nd I've seen unattractive guys date hot girls look at Johnny Depp
The beginning part made me cringe so hard that my face inverted onto my heart, killing my instantly. and no one can bring me back.
I love this ~ you’re so insightful~
@5:28 IT MUST NEEDS BE REMARKED
so in short, these are groups that hate themselves and people like themselves.. who also want to be abused by people like themselves?
Truth hurts but that doesn't mean everything that hurts is true.
I adore your videos a lot. I sure hope this helped at least one incel, to think about themselves
brb gonna go fuck the sea
Literally the saddest thing about being a man is that I’ll never be able to create life with my body
Damn, my vagina actually clenched together during that intro, I was so uncomfortable
Honestly. If you’re an incel. And you think it’s wrong that no one wants you. Do you think that people are just meant to find you attractive or something. Half the shit these people say is contradictive
If people that are 600 lbs and missing multiple limbs or having significantly disfigured bodies can find ways to have sex you can too. Like obviously you aren’t fucking trying hard enough🥵 if I could be a ugly chubby gay kid at some point and get a grown man to fuck me I think a 25 year old average bodied white heterosexual male can get pussy. Or maybe y’all ride as fuck and don’t know how to talk to someone. Not to mention I’m sure there’s gloryholes for straight guys. You’re not special. You’re just fucking stupid. Don’t complain if you aren’t even trying
well I think Gone for a while Contra looks a lot more feminine having said that Looking good
your whole aesthetic (rich asmr voice thats epic 😎😎, incredible makeup and outfits, setting, character) is fucking inspiring i-
B-But I have a big head..
First time in your channel and i really loved :) subscribed
Honestly i don't get the need for sex. I just jack off and I'm GOOD. To be fair i'm almost never attracted to real people but I have been attracted to people before I just... DON'T.
You're amazing and I love you <3
A friend posted this and i think it's perfect for this video.  "You can't hate yourself into a version of yourself you love"
Ultra masculine bread science is my kink
Did this video feature the guy from Philosophy Tube reading the comments?
Thank god you said you’re attracted to women!!!
Thank you for your videos contrapoints. I know the board you are talking about on 4chan. I go there too.
Avoid the incel bored at all cost shiz is legit crazy I'm near enraged  from the brief look i took while watching this video. Like wtf!?!
I wish they knew that their inceldom is of their own making stop being a dick and get some therapy for yourself esteem ,and you'd be better whether with or without partner
One of the worst forum threads I ever saw was about a guy saying that the government should assign wives to every male like a state ration, and that these wives should be MAXIMUM 13 years old. The reason? The minds of the "wives" are still pliable at this stage, thus you can shape them mentally to suit your needs. The take-away was that women were cattle, and that the world is grossly unjust to the angry folks who can't seem to get some. The suggestion wasn't written angrily; the tone was of clinical aplomb. The ensuing posts responding to these suggestions were of uproarious approval. The next thread over was one where incels would post photos of their faces; and just like how Contrapoints described, they were absolutely normal-looking. It both horrified me and broke my heart that these kinds of people exist.
I have watched a few of her videos and I didn’t see anything indicating she was transgender until she explicitly says here. There is no good that comes from reinforcing negative ideas, even if there is some truth to them. If you don’t like women and you are not gay, maybe it’s better to just pay for sex or masturbate. Why get into a relationship just for sex if you’re going to be aggravated being around women? That’s a recipe for unhappiness for all involved. It seems ludicrous to be fixated on not being able to get something that you don’t really want.
No male should feel entitled.
And I thought calling women females was weird... 🤢
incels are a 1 always trying to score an 11 im a toycel, i dont have enough toys
I am in awe of you're ability to deep dive into the abyss without losing your mind. You're a superhero.
imagine them taking this naming creativity elsewhere svnuffnweufn
whoever wrote that "imagine" at the beginning should maybe get into writing porn. The start of that shit was hot
Oh the S C U L L. Researching meuing is hard cause there are so many redpilled boys around the topic.
I relate, there's this *hunger* for emotional pain inside of me and it's like crack to me
Incels are douchebags because they can’t get a woman, and they can’t get a woman because they are douchebags...  A self-repeating cycle.
I noodled on my guitar during this whole video. I don't know what this means. Did I release my sexual tension? I'm so confused.
32:14 I didn't know Bob Page was an incel
She's likeable, smart and insightful.  So glad I discovered this channel!  :)
You look feminine as frick , at least 100x prettier than my cis arse.
this channel is awesome
im down for skinny or chubby nerdy boys!! you're just not looking in the right place!!!
Is this video still monetized lol?
the incel groups remind me of the Venom symbiote for some reason. It exaggerates feelings of anger and hatred. Here, a man is upset and self-loathing, and the incel ideas latch on and exaggerate those negative feelings to the point of self destruction.
I’m at step 5 right now, but I’m never going to 6, that shit is absurd. Just because some women have hurt me in the past doesn’t mean that they all want to hurt me.
Mendelssohn, I’m so sorry.
Alana can get this Anala
It's kinda sad because I bet there are "ugly" women would date these incels, but the incels would probably turn them down and whine about how they can't get laid.
They consider a Becky to be less desirable than a Stacy? Are you kidding me? I’d much rather someone like Becky than someone like Stacy. These guys have their priorities messed up.
Incels annoy the hell out of me. Not only are they a bunch of terrorist supporting women hating shit stains, but they make the rest of us awkward virgins look bad. I can’t tell you how many times I’ve been grouped in with these assholes.
Upside is that these guys will never reproduce. Thanks Darwin.
Somewhere the world's tiniest violin plays into this.  What a depressing way to go through life and totally a self-fulfilling prophecy.
I just want it to be noted that there are no latin american chad/incel versions, fucking racists XD
Love your channel. Casey Neistat is a great example of someone who is attractive because of their personality. Casey isn't traditionally  attractive but is popular and attractive because of how cool and great of a person he is. Im not at all trying to hate on Casey. I'm just using him as an example. I wonder how Incels would respond.
ah yes, the sea
I'm an incel and while i somewhat agree with some things in here (i've only watched about half the video starting from the middle) a lot is simply wrong and cherrypicking here. The "hate on women" you described is simply wrong. You purposely picked a kind of hate that is completly unjustified so everyone would relate to you. Practically no incel says "women deserve rape" or "women should be sex slaves". First of all just looking at the upvotes of these posts, its just cherry picking. Secondary, its not serious, its a joke, its a meme. Its semi serious at best. We aren't retarded, we don't simply get mad at some women on her cellphone. The type of women we hate is the type of woman that actually says "short men should just kill themself". And these women exist, plenty of them. Even if they won't say it they will think it or atleast reject you for being short. I have literally never heard any women tell me "If your personality was better, i'd date you". Its simply not a thing. If a women really didn't care about looks she would just date me even my personality is somehow "bad". You don't think i will go up to her like "whats up cum dumpster" right? I will approach her like literally everyone else. Its innocent until proven guilty. As soon as she rejects me just for looks, yes she is a piece of shit. The reason we say "women are trash" is because its just always the case. I won't generalize every women on earth but women just dont like short men, anything else is an edgecase and you would be delusional to say that the majority of women dont care about looks or height. This isn't even the blackpill, its just facts. Being a decent human being includes knowing the truth. If you are actually a giga bluepilled normie you will say things that you can't even imagine. I have talked with normies that wish me nothing but dead. They wish dead to me, i wish dead to them. Ultimately they and women started it. Clearly if you wouldn't take every chance you get to shit on us, we wouldn't be so fucking mad. I respect this video for going that way but ultimately this video is still incorrect. Being delusional won't make you happy. It may make you happy for a shorttime but in the longterm it will just put you on the wrong path. I accepted my fate, i dont hate on any women unless they act like retards. But that applies to normies aswell, everyone. Even incels if they happen to go full braindead with some things. I believe the 4chan thing you mentioned is kinda right. Your voice and four head are definitely something that could be improved. Don't see it as bad advise. Its just criticism, they won't give you an "looks good" like normies when theres only small flaws. They will just mention every flaw. Its pretty much just that  when even these people  give you the "okay" just can definitely go trans. Everything else is indeed a risk. Idk what else to say, but its quite ridiculous to assume no women on planet earth wants any incel just because of their "personality". Do you see me caring about womens look or personality? According to you, men and female arent much different. I would take any girl, with any look, with any personality. Most important thing, i would atleast give her the chance. Maybe her personality actually sucks that hard. But i don't go around like woman rejecting them immediately. I would give any human being a chance that asks me. If you seriously expect someone that wants something so much to just hate on you, you are delusional. The hate is created from the absence of it nothing more. Any incel with a gf would be a normal human being. And rejecting someone for what happened after the rejection is literal nonsense.
"At least these pricks care enough about my pussy to be an asshole about my dick." XDDDDD
i don't understand. most chefs i've seen specifically in the media are male, also i see couples walking around where i live all the time where the man is shorter than the woman, or definitely not what society deems to be attractive. i see that way more often than i've ever seen an "unattractive" woman with a "chad".
Are you saying they should fuck the ocean
"chadpreet" "ricecel" "chadsplaining"   these guys are complete losers but damn if they aren't funny
*whispers* ＡＮＡＬ
What if we create an incel rehabilitation forum, made up of guys complimenting each other and helping the other guys on there to get into relationships and accept rejection.  It shall be called “The Wingmen”
Marica tu estas loca mami si brithny lo estaba tu lo estas pior . Hey Brithny se escapo del manicomio
Love you Natalie ❤️💕
If anyone wants to see something disturbing along these lines, a videogame made by these peoples still able to make money. jesusstrikesback.com Disgusting.
This is the best video I’ve ever seen
Is the British voice Olly?
i mean, honestly, all jokes aside--this is really, genuinely sad.  i don't mean pathetic or pitiable, but just straight depressing.
*slurps tea*
I guess I would qualify as an incel in that finding a partner seems to be a lost cause for me due to my mental illnesses which I am being treated for. I've also experienced a lot of trauma when I was younger that I think has ruined my ability to trust and relate to others. I really want to be loved by someone (and to love them back) and want to experience physical intimacy but I don't think any woman would ever want to date someone like me. It's frustrating but I don't hate or blame women. I feel quite hurt inside and wish things were different for me.
Transwomen=men :)
A death cult: turn men into failed women so they can't reproduce. This channel is a good example. Btw. You are lot "liked". You do not have a vagina. Just an infected open wound. You are a frenkestein monster ;) No pussy. Never. Ever.  Deal with it. And you are disgusting. Faggot.
Never forget 40% of countrapoints kill themselves. And no one miss them. Not even their subscribers.
Btw...how the dilating schedule goes ? Your body is still trying to heal the pus infected you call a "neo-vagina" ? Oh. Btw. Lurk more. You know nothing about pills.
The black pill or "how I love my depression so much".
women are just in the way while men fuck eachother hell yeah brother
sex is overrated, why is it so important for these incels
What is one to do if they're unhappy about being a virgin but also don't associate with incel communities
Watching one of my friends turning into an incel is one of the worse things I've had to deal with.
Oof...digital self harm imma have to read up on that
Wondering if input from a bit of an outsider would offer any further conversation:  As someone who is asexual/aromantic (which is a bit different from celibacy because it's a lack of attraction altogether) , I find it difficult to wrap my head around the incel "sex is the only way to attain happiness" mindset. I'm sure it would help them to pursue happiness in whatever platonic relationships or hobbies they have and see where things go after that.
Paradoxically negative feedback is slightly better than loneliness for some individuals. Some people actively seek out negative feedback to reinforce their personal beliefs about themselves. It's self-defeating sure but they do it anyway.   Biggest gripe is the flawed logic in correlating relationships to happiness. If you are not happy being single, I can guarrentee you won't be happy in a relationship. Or you will inevitably make another miserable for constantly emotionally supporting you.   I'm not particularly fond of online dating sites because it feels.... demoralizing. I can't judge if I will like someone (or vise versa) from a few profile images and a couple sentences in their biography.   Unrelated but I never would have guessed you are Trans. You manage being female really damn well.
Olly’s voice does something to me..
13:27 Wow, this thought process is so me, I had no idea there was actually a term for this type of thinking. I really do hate how anxious I can get though.
bana göre zamanında özgüvenli olmayı denediğini düşünüyorum bazı incellerin. ama herifler çok özgüvenli olunca boş yapıyor olabilir ağzına geleni söylüyor olabilir. ayarı tutturmak lazım aga.
I wonder what Hispanic incels are called
Does..does she want to have sex with nature itself???
0:02 I am already so fucking uncomfortable.
Yass queen
I lost a braincell listening to that guy talk about bread
*bReAD ScIEnCE*
I didn't really like the beginnin of the video But I'm glad I watched the whole thing. Very good
FEEEEEMOOOOOID
Why do these conspiracy theories sound like shitty porn plotlines
Not gonna lie the chad meme is hilarious to me. Inaccurate, but hilarious.
Then their are guys like me. Who could have gotten some coochie by now if they where actually willing to put their foot in the dating scene. But alas we will forever make excuses as to why we don't have girlfriends.
This is such a good video.
I've been accused of being an incel, and just like Elliot Rogers, I have 147 page manifesto.  But fret not!  I am anti-violence and am trying to get into the heads of the next potential mass shooters, to put their guns down.  I, myself, almost shot up a school in 2001.  Here is my manifesto page:  http://www.ultrafaction.com/manifesto
I'm sorry. I fucking lost it at "Chadpreet." Like, jesus...LOLOLOLOLOL!
Thank you, Skull-People, for showing me the way.
I wish I was a bread scientist. I cant even make toast without burning it. Side note: are there many gay incels? I assume since the incel community hates women, they must hate gays too?
i actually think incels actually make a lot of good conclusions but not for the right reasons   yes they experience lots of rejections because they mostly experience dating through apps because they don't go outside. But then again you go outside  with your friends, when you go outside with 4-8 male friends chances are you are not going to meet lots of "potential love interests" AND you also need friends to... go out with friends...   so if you don't have friends, you don't go outside and even if you DO have friends you need to have a circle that allows you to meet new people otherwise it's just another circlejerk   i'm a man and i have a girlfriend i guess i would be what they call a "hopecell" i never gave up after 4 years and eventually got lucky   but still that's not very healthy because as in every normal relationships, whenever you flirt with someone else your partner is jealous and that a big NO NO BOIII. but if you don't flirt that means that you are essentially closing yourself to new people even if you don't see them as potential partners and i'm pretty sure that if i ever leave the situation that i am in i will be alone and depressed again   you will agree that's not a very healthy attitude i don't feel trapped and i love her but if things go south i'm guessing i will be running tail between my legs notice-me-senpai style to her instead of letting her go if the relationship becomes toxic   i don't know where i'm going but i understand what they are saying and the situation do feel kind of hopeless and the only solution is to not give up and have fun (putting your dick in someone is not what will make you happy or i am really bad at it or vice versa) for exemple i like to say whatever comes to my mind on dating apps with the one or two women that i match with and that's how i actually met my girlfriend : Me - hey, are you Marilyn Monroe ? Her - No sorry you make a mistake M - Fuck ! nevermind then i'm not interested i guess H - Lol how are you ? M - [blabla etc... let's fuck whatever...] ya know just havin a laugh even if my humor sucks at least i laugh on my own big win if you ask me   anyway this video is thousands of years old thank you old chap for taking the time to read you're probably the only one let's have a beer someday and maybe we'll go to a strip club and snort some cocain along the way
8:10 It's hilarious that there's no latinocels on that list, hahahaha. As an "unfuckable" latino, I can say I've fucked more women than I ever dreamed of. If you are 20 and still a virgin, just go to Brazil for a month. As long as you are able to communicate you are bound to find a girl who likes you the very first night you go out. Don't expect her to marry you or love you forever for what's inside  though...
As someone who has never been on a date in his life, never mind having sex, I can't believe how much I can almost relate to 'Incels' in terms of that I've never had a girlfriend, or had sex and I have confidence issues. But I just don't subscribe to any of the bullshit ideas that they have. like, they're absolute assholes and muppets.
Wow! As a right wing god fearing father of 5, i was floored by how much I enjoyed this video.   This entertainer was well spoken, had done their research, and spoke from a place of authenticity and understanding.  Also she (i hope i got that right) was very funny.   I wish before anyone posted on the internet they had to watch this video, and take notes on how to discuss a controversial topic with respect and open mindedness.  Thank you for being the change this world needs.
I think I love you
I knew about Chat, but not Stacy or Becky. #themoreyouknow
You are epic and I love your jewelry. Be my BFF; yes, we'll make fun of incels and I'll try to scam on your things, but I promise it'll be worth it.
Hypocrites All!!!   Females as well as Males do the SAME amount of Sh$t talking.  Get over yourselves
No thanks
Ok but “Chadpreet” made me snort 😆
"VOLCEL IF YOU WOULDN'T BITCHES" why did i laugh so hard
It’s like these young guys cling on to their failures as high school and college students and are incapable of continuing to make a genuine effort. I see a lot of these young men and although I’m a man myself, I can still see that many of them have at least a few physical features that can be highlighted to attract women physically. Many of these men simply need to pluck their eyebrows, invest in contacts or at least a fashionable pair of glasses, comb their hair, and dress like the chads they so clearly want to be. It certainly doesn’t help to act desperate or blame women for finding them unattractive. There are also many attractive physical qualities that can be gained by anyone such as a great physique. They also likely in the past have invested too much time into one woman that has clearly expressed no interest. Chads don’t continue pursuing relationships with women that have expressed disinterest, they move onto the next and don’t let the rejection make them believe that they don’t have anything to offer. Chads also take advice from women on how they can be more attractive, incels believe they should be found attractive as they are and are unwilling to take any criticism that could potentially save them from their celibate fates. I would say that I feel sorry for them, but I truly believe that for most of them being celibate is their own fault.
Incel’s have fears that I wouldn’t even blame them for They just go the wrong way
Goddamn it. Goddamn it Natalie. I am now attracted to the ocean. Thanks. I hate it.
If big skulls mean you are a man, then my wife is a dude cause she has a big head and mentions it a lot, lol
Incels just need to get themselves a hobby. Dare I say it sex isn't everything.
Took me a long time to get the energy to watch this video since I was afraid of what I could learn in it. Seriously you rock, i admire you for the courage you have to analyse those kind of topics in such a skilled (and entertaining) way. I wish everyone around me could watch your videos and learn from you
Aaaand subscribed.  I genuinely fucking laughed out loud more than once during this video. Amusing and insightful great work.
My  skeleton is small but my wallet is big and my dick is bigger than my wallet🤣 That is what it should be saying wheres the confidence✊  -p.s Tyrone was here now im off to fck yo girl, sister, mother, auntie & grandma if she's hot.
you know who is also a man? you
If I didn't transition I'm like 95% sure I'd be an incel right now as we speak. That's the answer boys
Hi ! As a pre transition trans woman, it was kinda hard seeing this video especially  the part where you talk about trans people but it was very interesting and i'm glad i did. I'm happy right now in my body even if i am seen as a man in every spaces i go lol. I can't wait to start my transition and i'm really glad i found your channel i love the way you talk about tragic things in a light way.
Dude, I'm a 150kg gaming addict and I get my dick wet.  Just put on deodorant, comb your hair, talk about your hobbies, and learn to deal with rejection and bounce back quickly.
#NATOLLY
Throwing men's rights activist into this menosphere world view is a gross misreprentation.  I'll start with a disclaimer first, as these discussions usually get emotional easily: --- As with any movement you will find groups with different ideologies that put on the same label, in this case men's rights activists. Therefore I will not deny the existence of people that call for dehumanizing stuff like mandated government girlfriends. It is therefore easy to dismiss the movement as a whole because of a few bad apples.   However, dismissing the idea that there are ANY concerns that affect men more than women is sexist as well. ---  The original movement concerns itself with concerns like custody (it is VERY hard for men to get even shared custody if the mother does not agree), higher suicide rates, far higher workplace death/injury rates, etc.  Topics which should be discussed on the merits of the arguments, not on any emotionally laden ideolodical battleground.  Unfortunately discussions about these topics usually also get sidetracked by "whataboutism", meaning changing the topic by throwing in another (usually femininst) topic and arguing which is more important. And I will not disagree that there are many other valid topics, and we should tackle them all. But that does not mean we should ignore the problems of any part of the population because other problems seem more important. Or get sidetracked in our discussion.   Hopefully we will manage to reach a point where we can discuss "human rights" instead of splitting ourselfes into "womens rights" and "mens rights" groups.  I expect the assumption of this grouping is also routed in the documentary "The red pill", which delves into men's rights activism. However the similarities between the presented "red pill" worldview in this youtube video and the interviewed people ends in the title. I highly recommend checking out the movie if you would like to know more about the men's rights movement. Actually I challenge anyone who disagrees to check out that movie, even if you do it only to "know thy enemy"  It never hurts to break out of your bubble.
I identify as an attackhelicoptercel
блэкцелы, каррицелы, рисцелы? ему канал скоро выпилят.
I recently learned that the artist that drew those caricatures used in that Becky/Stacy slide is really upset INCELs are using their work in this way.
"I hate women. They deserve to be raped. Why doesn't anyone want to date me?"
Thanks for the info in such an amazing way! I have never seen you before but I am subscribing and sharing all over the place. You are amazing! xxx
Ew
"your skeleton is too small" - it's not even a drawback, you moron. If you have light thin bones, it means that you can gain a lot of muscle while keeping relatively low body weight. You can become a good athlete with this sort of advantage. Imagine having the strength of somebody who weights 90 kg, when your weight is only 80 kg.
This video struck a chord with me in a weird way. Story-time: when I was 14, I was on a message board on which pretty everyone despised me. It was a splinter of a bigger Yu-Gi-Oh community. Anyway, I became fascinated with the gratuitous hate I was getting on that forum, and I reacted to that environment in two conflicting ways; on one hand, I wanted to win those people over by sticking around unapologetically, in some sort of exercise in clout chasing, and on the other hand, I was curious to see how far I could push their hatred, so at one point, I spoiled the end of Harry Potter 6 just to enrage them.  In hindsight, this is my analysis of the situation: I lived in an environment where adults projected unreasonable expectations onto me, and in a twisted way, being around people who couldn't stand me felt freeing, because there was no way I could disappoint them. There was no consequence to their anger and abuse, and what made it addictive is I could control exactly the kind of reaction I'd get out of them on my terms, as opposed to being abused as a result of failure.  This kind of control is probably what incels seek: they don't feel they have any power over whether women reject them or not, and they're convinced that masculine beauty standards are out of reach for them, but when they deliberately ask to get roasted, they command a specific kind of attention, and that's exactly what they get. It's essentially the same mechanic as posting thirst traps for likes, except instead of saying "look at my conventionally desirable body", they're saying "look at my conventionally undesirable body" in spaces that will validate their thoughts.
If you look in the mirror and dont like what you see you can find out firsthand what Is like to be me. -Gerard Way
Why do you look like a Castlevania villain?
#justgetadoll
thunderfoot is an incel.  now I know why he's always so mad.
Contrapoints really makes high quality videos, I appreciate it.
The music in this video is amazing 🎶😎
Came here because my boyfriend suggested it after we were having philosophy discussion.... Came away understanding that my skull is apparently unnaturally large...
I used to think this was just a relatively small Reddit phenomenon, but I got this video in my recs today called "why pretty people are myopic" and it was the same dumbassery about "feminist brainwashing" and "blackpilling" (side note what the fuck is up with YT's algorithm.)  Seriously though, imagine being a misogynist who stays home all day and thinking your BONE STRUCTURE is the reason you can't get girls. ugh
please SOMEONE TELL ME THE NAME OF THE SONG AT THE BEGINNING!!!
I couldn't get through that first reading lol, had to mute it
32:07 Do women really talk on their cellphones about Paris Hilton?
Dear God ContraPoints, your channel is about the most amazingly interesting channel I am subscribed to. Thanks for all the work you do!
FEEEEEEEEEEEMMMOOOOOOOIIIIIIDSSSS
nice produtction, nicely told. Two thumbs up. Gave me new things to think about. Thanks
You are very beautiful! I hope you believe that now. Also this video is hilarious but also very informative.
INCELS are total dweebs. They deserve to be mocked
My father has a tiny wrist
Sorry but I lost it at "Currycel" lol
Idk what the incel guys r talking about lol, I’ve seen tons of attractive people who listen to music while walking. Isn’t it, normal? I know it’s just a “meme” but they act like it’s all 100% legit
feeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeemooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooid
The fact that you uttered Roosh V's name is way more credit than he is ever due. There's a lot of people I don't like or don't agree with, but can ultimately listen to and respect on some level. Blaire White, Daddy Peterson, hell, EVEN MILO (he's intentionally provocative. It's an act. Not a very good one, but w/e.) etc. but Roosh? Fuck that monster. Get outta here. Pure. Evil.
Chad circumference isn't as catchy as mouth feel
They call women "femoids" and wonder why no one wants to have sex with them?
I live for Olly reading Incel posts. :D
I find it kinda funny how the incel community makes all of these theories about female sexuality while simultaneously not taking female sexuality into account. It's a proven fact that female sexuality is not stimulated by visual queues as much as it is by emotional attractions. If women care so much about looks, then why are there studies proving that women prefer having sex in dimly lit rooms, compared to men, who like doing it in fully lit rooms? Why would women bother to hide the faces of these newly acquired chad boyfriends? Is the looks not why they got them in the first place? And if you want a definitive proof of this, just take a look at Natalie herself - in her one of her videos (I can't remember which, but I think it was either the Autogynophilia video or the Traps video) she reported a change in the way that her sexuality works ever since she started taking female hormones. Sure, it is self reported, but I've heard the same from any woman I've dated or talked to. And if you really want to dive into it, there is a very simple biological reason for this - giving birth to babies and raising them is a lot of effort, and it's a lot more beneficial to have them with someone who is trustworthy and loyal and will stay to support the woman than with some fuckboy chad who would leave once he has the chance. I'm eighteen and I've been in relationships with three women at this point, two of them were much more attractive and older than me - the first was twenty when I was sixteen, and the second was twenty when I was seventeen. Why in the world would a twenty year old girl date a highschool kid according to this stupid theory of hypergamy? I don't come from a rich family, I'm a five out of ten at best, and the most attractive quality about me visually is that I'm six feet tall, and I don't even look it because I'm almost always slightly crouched. And if you want the best part, the first girl actually chose me over a real, honest to god chad - a muscle bound athlete guy her age whom she rejected in order to date me. And sure, you could say that she was cucking me behind my back or some other crazy incel shit, but why would she? Once again, I was a highschool kid from a lower middle class family. We live in a shitty rented apartment, while her family was actually much more wealthy. And unless I have some secret chad superpowers that I'm not aware of, this seems to me like the incel theory doesn't hold any water. Now, all of the things that are said here are obvious to those of you who have some semblance of common sense. But incels are stuck so deep in their delusions that the very basics of common sense need to be explained to them in order for them to take the true red pill - that the one thing that matters is their decisions and that the choice to grow up is entirely their own. And sure, you could say that Iying, or that I'm blue pilled, or that I'm part of the great female conspiracy, but in the end of the day, you are the one who'll remain stuck in a state of mind that dictates that the only thing left for you to do is lie down and rot. Get out, get help, and who knows, maybe you'll even get a girlfriend.
I love getting this from the perspective of a trans woman! The experience of trans men and women is so sociologically significant as it reveals a lot about certain trends around gender roles or at the very least validated them. There’s so many excuses for why certain people can’t talk about oppression (mainly being too close to the issue or not being close enough), and that means that we never get to have a meaningful discussion. When the experience is coming from someone who has experienced both sides, it’s not so easy to discredit them.  (**for the record, this was my first contrapoints vid and you are COMPLETELY passing. I just thought here’s a gorgeous gal with a great melodic deep voice. I know this doesn’t need to be said and shouldn’t even matter, but know that when people are out here calling you a goddess, it’s not just bullshit <3)
A weaponized group of nuts.  Just what we need.  I just don't and can't sympathize with a group of misogynistic aholes who blame women for all their woes.  Men have all the inherent privileges that women would kill for (ERA still hasn't passed so no matter how incels spin it.) Women don't have equal rights that men enjoy by their birthright.  And I don't blame men for all my woes.  That's the difference.  Just maybe incels should examine their misogynistic behavior and realize that no  female is attracted to someone who despises them just because they are female. Oh wait...femoids.  If I can treat men with respect, they can treat women with respect.  And I didn't marry a Chad.  I married a short, obese guy who had a brilliant brain and pleasant smile.  Unfortunately, he turned out to be a covert narcissist and sadist.  So we divorced.  Well, when I got married I would have met criterion to be a Stacy.  So their logic is insane.  Women don't obsess over men's looks the way that men do.  Ignore the self loathing, leave the labels behind, and talk to women like people and your luck will change.
Your voice wtf is wrong
That first story had me just repulsed. No wonder no one sleeps with these guys. They are so creepy and rapey, I can't even right now. I have never felt more disgust in my entire 24 years of fucking existing. Kill me now, PLEASE. I don't want to live on a planet with these psychopaths.
I'm studying Russian and I hate you so much for using the characters incorrectly. Hate is a strong word, just as strong as this vodka I'm drinking.
As much as I love this chanel, I have to say that I completely disagree with the conclusions of this video. I am a cis-male, mostly heterosexual incel, and I also consider myself a radical leftist and a queer*feminist ally. I don't know why some peope end up as incels and others don't, but just as easily as you can observe in your daily life that is has nothing to do with looks, you can observe that is has just as little to do with personality or attitudes towards women, since the most horrible misogynists with the worst characters you know, generally have no trouble in finding a loving partner.
To be fair, that chap’s beard absolutely looks like five year’s worth of pubic hair trimmings that he glued onto his face during a long and harrowing weekend.  I expect he’s doing some science right now. He loves that. BUT NOT HUGS. HUGS ARE FAKE.
I thought "femoids" had something to do with "hemoroids" lmao
I have trouble getting laid because I dwell in the world of science, technology, engineering, and mathematics, where there are almost no women.  I'm a STEMcel.
Geez incel world is so dark. A place where misery loves company and feeds each other more misery. I love how you've shared the beauties of nature at the end.
Um... So without ever visiting an online incel community and essentially living the last few years hating the incel community... Apparently I am an incel? The fuck is this sorcery.
Oh it's Olly! I didn't know about him when I first watched this video
<3
f
I had to do a double take at 11:57 because for a minute I thought I jumped to another vide somehow
Yeah, Tinder is shit
33:45 contrapoints is the author of the most sexy minutes of the entirety of youtube.
loved this video, just subscribed
I can relate to you so fucking much girl. I lurked on imageboards for years as a female teen, watching some creeps idealize the perfect women and making other feel shitty about anything. Currently I'm still mental about my looks, always critizing myself, for not being blonde, having blue/green eyes, having hunter eyes or any of that shit (aryan race, that's how they called them). Even if I have a loving boyfriend and a hundred people calling me beautiful I don't believe any of those comments anymore and believe I am the worst of the worst. There were days I even wanted to spill acid on my face from how much I hated my looks, and the worse is that I know why it's happening to me and I can't fix it. Instagram and social media doesn't help at all either, because all I see is pretty people, and when I compare them to me, I feel so small and horrendous... It has made me hateful and cruel to myself, to the point I get to rant myself every week. "I wish I looked like this" "I wish I was perfect like them" I also have an obsession with my step sister, who is actually blonde, has a perfect skull, proportions, and everything about her is everything I ever wanted to be. I really don't know what to do and... sometimes... I wish I never visited those places in my life, because they have caused me so much harm. I could be called a counterpart for an incel, but in this case, it's just mental, not social...
Incels just fail to see every option i think. I think they are also after Stacey knowing they can't get her, but don't want her either because they think Stacey is a slut. Ergo, they cockblock themselves. Most of them (if not all) hate trans women (why?) And they won't want to be with a 1/5/10 woman.. They won't date a passed 35 year old women because she will only want a ''betacuck''   C'mon... I've been virgin untill 24 i was ready for every option, i want to be with almost every woman. Young old, trans/traps, fat, thin. etc etc. To me the character is most important, the only women i deny is either minors or women waaaay to old for me (like my max will be around 30 years older then myself) or a post op trans woman.   I ended up having sex with an asian woman, 21 years older then me. She has a husband and a kid. Fuck moral standards, just have sex. I don't care if a woman has been fucked by a 100 dicks already. I just wanted to experience love and sex, wich i achieved.
this isn't related to the video but I wanna say you're really beautiful- I didn't even realize you were trans cause I had the video on mute lmao i hope you still don't obsess over your 'bone structure' a lot cause you make for a terrific female
What if your named Chad but your brow bone is lacking...
The internet has vigorously fanned the flames of hate for these frustrated/angry fellows. Being able to find what you want online that validates your opinions is a major drawback of the world wide web. Many people think I'm an incel. I'm white, single, kinda heavy set, & really awkward around women. But the truth is quite the opposite.
Incel + selfie = cellfie
Tyrone, Chang and Chandpreet ... anyone else collapse in hysterics at this point?
Is this tranny POS suggesting people fornicate before marriage? Scum
He's a MasterBaker... how could you pass up that opertunity?
I feel rich famous cuz I have the same free tentacle ring from IG 🥰 plus that Love of the Sea! We're sisters now.
I think incels read A Handmaids Tale and went “ah yes this sounds like the perfect world”
innovative and intellectual tour de force. Bleeding productive sarcasm, revealing wounds yet to be healed while offering a socio-virtual tourniquet to stench the same.  Offering the guiding light of feminine treasure, vulnerability, to light the exit.  Well done!!! Bravo!!!!
I always thought you were a woman in all the thumbnails I saw before I started watching your channel. Idk if that matters but I just wanted to say that after your brutal honesty during the TTTT segment. Hbomberguy is what started your popping up on my feed. Your honesty is amazing. I admire it greatly. Never change except for the better. Thank you for your perspective.
Thank you Contrapoints for researching these bat-shit insane people so i don't have too <3
be incel, chop your dick off and pretend to be a womyn, then make a youtube channel and complain women have it hard in life and other male incels would rather be alone fuck you because you still cant get laid and no one likes you cuz ur a tranny freak
I have some things in common with incels, the self-loathing, and general inability to find a mate. But the shit they believe is wild. I have never once thought to blame my struggles on women?  Also, I've had sex with several people so it's not like I think it's impossible. But it's been over a year and I'm definitely catastrophizing, beginning to believe I never will find anybody.  I don't frequent any message boards about it and besides with my therapist, haven't spoken to anyone about it. Idk how but I feel like this video can help me. I just don't know how to get out of the cycle of not believing in myself
Ditching my self-pity was the best thing I ever did. For me that was unapologetic gender transition. Perhaps I would even be an incel if I never started wearing panties and growing boobs. Will never know. 💁
I was in the hell that is the Black Pill mindset for long time, but im really trying to break out of it. Im 25 years old and im whats known as a KHV (kissingless, handheldless, virgin) in incel circles, its driven me mad for along time but im  geting over it and trying to just live my life. I still cant really imagine any woman wanting to be in arelationship with someone like me, but its something i need to accept. Happiness can only come from inside you, and I hope at least some of these other incels come to see that.
Roosh is so fucked in the head, he's like a caricature
I just want to say for anyone worried about their *checks notes* head size...   I am a cis woman. I have a large head. Most hats don't fit me. I also have big hair on top of a big head.    I'm also sex worker. Soooo. Yeah.
i fucking LOVE you and this video. youre so gorgeous and funny and as a closeted trans woman u give me hope 💖💖💖
It’s as if all these men watched Married...with Children, and completely missed the satire.
I feel you did set it right. Luckily my girl actually chanced me... Actually fell in loved for her for it. I feels great to feel wanted. But you also got it right that men have to go out there and try and women basically wait for suiters which is so much easier with internet. It is tough to be rejected but knowing that is the only way to find a partner. Idk if straight woman get how harsh it is for guys.
My older sister twisted world view for most by continuingly telling me that I was not the kind of man woman chased around with but settle with for stability because my calm and responsible demeanor. It fucked up my world view for a long time mostly because the world aroumd me confirmed it. Sad part is though I got laid at even probably too yong age to prove it wrong. It sticks with you. Even though I got reasons to debunk it. Being short and having long bouts of time without catching anyones eye. Even though I am dating some one. I just cannot stop feeling like I don't deserve her and she settled. Even though she persude me, I cannot help return to the pattern of thinking that she just wants me because I am stable though we met in trade school. We have been going steady for 5 years almost 6 and I always tell myself that I am despensible. I just need the littlest indication that I am exactly that to feel that way. Like noticing all her celeb crushes are taller than her while I am not. Or her or my friends joking that she is taller than me to remind me how adnormal it is.  I just tool my sister's word as gospal because I looked up to my only older sibling and I figured as a girl she would know. Idk where this comes from but it is more than "toxic masculinity" in my experience that gives thid impression of the world.
The female equivalent would be breaking down these feminist losers who think that their entire life is controlled by "the patriarchy"
Incels deserve empathy too
There's definitely some truth in the red-pill theory. To say that it's all BS is being disingenuous and intellectually lazy
Why has YouTube never recommended your channel to me before, the fuck!?
Incels are wrong: I'm 6'5," I have "good bone structure" in my skull (because that matters?) and I do not hate women, in fact I'd like to think I'm a feminist, I can lift very heavy things like a manly man-man can yet I cannot get a woman, and haven't in years.  Take that, Incels!
You are fabulous! How have I just discovered your channel?
Damn. This is a really good informative video, made with exceeding competence. I may have a new reason to binge hours of a channel.
Came for the insights. Stayed for the musical score.
who the fuck told them about phrenology, that was some evil shit
That’s cool and all but can we talk about the production quality of this channel tho?
ContraPoints is gross. If Big Tech oligarchs are going to ban anyone with politics they don't like then they should ban gross people first.
These men complain about women or anyone "sjw" complaining about being victims. These incels seek and relish in victimhood.
Do you do a podcast? You should.
As a teenager who owns a stratocaster, I don't like the stereotype your perpetuating about teenagers who own stratocasters >:(   Fr tho, I just found this channel and this stuff is well researched, properly structured and detailed. I'm subscribing.
Natalie. I absolutely love your style. You look so purposely and painstakingly put together
Such a load of bollocks - there are virtually no legit incels - unless you're homeless or close to it you're not an incel - just go bang a hooker / pornstar, they're way cheaper than traditional dating. I spent waaaaaay more in the first 3 dates with my girlfriend, never mind the crazy amounts since on holidays, trips and all that usual relationship outings stuff. The juice ain't worth the squeeze, sex is overrated (easy to say after I've had tonnes of it over 2 decades) - the real value is having more kids, which I am :)
wait who is the one reading that in the beginning
Incels exist because plain janes think they all deserve a Christian Grey to settle for them.
Your a hoe
The best advice ever given to the American incel came from Cohn Cougar Mellencamp:  "Forget all about that macho shit and learn how to play guitar"
I don't think she realizes what sarcasm is she's not DE radicalizing anybody.......
This is hilariously inaccurate
. awesome video. first time viewer here. I'm a cis white male and you're sexy. definitely not a hon ;) take care <3
2018 Contrapoints: Skulls; unchangeable. 2019 Contrapoints: lmao hold my wine
You are just downright captivating, thoughtful and articulate.   I'm glad I stumbled upon upon this video
Hearing Olly just slowly start to break character on that last /lgbt tweet... The man has boundless empathy.
I HAVE A REAL SOLUTION TO INCELS ONCE AND FOR ALL, AND IT ACTUALLY WORKS!  PLEASE SPREAD THE WORD BY LIKING THIS COMMENT. OR REACH OUT TO INCELS PERSONALLY AND LET THEM KNOW.   THEY NEED JESUS!!! GOD LOVES THEM UNCONDITIONALLY WHETHER WOMEN DO OR NOT! GOD DOES NOT JUDGE THEM BASED ON THE SHAPE OF THEIR SKULL NOR THE HEIGHT OF THEIR BODY!!  THERE IS HOPE! SPREAD THE GOOD NEWS!!!!!
Costomor service thees is Chadpreet how may I halp you?
There was a guy in one of my classes. I never really paid him much attention; he was pretty average looking. In truth he has a bit of acne. Then one day I got assigned to work with him, and we found a common sense of humour and he looked over at me, his face beaming with a smile, and I thought “I would fuck this guy.” At the end of the day, looks aren’t 100% of the formula for good chemistry. They’re a substantial part, but not all of it, and not everyone is totally superficial all the time.
@ContraPoints I am an Incel and most of the points mentioned here are correct, you tried to put herself in the shoes of one but failed on some points, most us don't hate women, well at least i don't. But kindly look into this whole scenario in the shoes of a man who was constantly berated or rejected by the women. You tell us to be confident but how i am going to feel confidant after rejected by 10's of women in my 20's after approaching them in a non creepy way (While approaching ~ never stalked any one, and after 2 3 times of chatting asked for a date and always got rejected).How can i trust a women when she was young and really attractive went out with total douche bags and now (I am 30) when she had her fill then  she approached me to settle down with her not because she loves me only because she has seen and experienced every thing and wants a stable marriage as i am an incel who won't be able to charm other women and have affairs (She literally told me on my face).As I am getting older and moving up in my carrier i am getting more and more number of proposals from women (got 3 proposals from such type of women in last 3 months for marriage , none in the last 3 years.).  Would like to ask how is it in the terms of fairness for an Incel. You are telling us that in a way that sorry bro i was not able to get that other person and you are my back up, so now lets hook up. Sorry but i won't. I will just stay on my path of self improvement of my body, soul and carrier and won't associate with these parasites.
I am the first time viewer and I think that your channel is amazing!  Subscribed! When you told about the language, it reminded me how things worked in the 20th century totalitarian regimes. There was absolutely the same programming of mind with words! It resembles Orwell's newspeak. In fact, the Nazi Reich was a giant sort of an incel forum with hatred directed towards jews and the minorities. This video has incredibly made clear for me how actually propaganda works. Thank you!
Holy fuck my trans friend just showed me your channel and where tf have I been? Haha love love love
This is so good. You're awesome.
EVALUATION: "Does face the worst option. A life of no sex for people who want it. But not very reassuring from someone who confesses in this very video to being extremely insecure about their attractiveness."
I haven't seen a funnier wordplay of dick, asshole and pussy since TAWP. I literally died.
"The inherit eroticism of the sea" got me laughing so hard! I see your point, though... the sea does get me wet all the time...
You sound so pretentious when you say 'duplicitous'. Just say double crossing or deceitful.
Jesus f***
im new here and after ten minutes i hit  subscribe button so hard  pls keep whatever you do
Ure a trans, aren't u?
I laughed so hard at the "that's not a pussy, that's a fuckhole!" moment. I really like how you're able to make coherent humorous arguments while seamlessly teaching people about common transphobic tropes and a lot of the unique and highly personal struggles with transitioning, like navigating online trans communities such as TTTT or reddit hugboxes
I HAVE A REAL SOLUTION TO INCELS ONCE AND FOR ALL, AND IT ACTUALLY WORKS!  PLEASE SPREAD THE WORD BY LIKING THIS COMMENT. OR REACH OUT TO INCELS PERSONALLY AND LET THEM KNOW.   THEY NEED JESUS!!! GOD LOVES THEM UNCONDITIONALLY WHETHER WOMEN DO OR NOT! GOD DOES NOT JUDGE THEM BASED ON THE SHAPE OF THEIR SKULL NOR THE HEIGHT OF THEIR BODY!!  THERE IS HOPE! SPREAD THE GOOD NEWS!!!!!
I am very scared of being seen as a man in a dress
I’m technically a female incel by the basic definition but I would never want to associate with the male incel community.
IMO what TTTT and Incels have in common is anomie, which explains how a group like incels comes about. .... The intrinsic need for a sense of belonging. I'm somewhat inclined to argue that the common incel psychopathology is learned helplessness vs catastrophizing. The inevitability of catastrophe. Disaster following despair. The point you make about incels paradoxically **externalizing** their self loathing is fascinating, though! We often critique groups by assuming that their solidarity stems from mutual disdain for their antithesis, but in that particular community, it seems much more plausible...and dangerous.
If you truly are or believe you are an incel, then just accept it.  You'll never have sex with the beautiful girl you want.  But guess what, you can still have hobbies, other interests, and friends.   So you won't have ever have sex with someone?  Well that's why we now have Pornhub! Learn to beat your meat and find happiness in other things.  That's the facts. Move on and live.
me: afab with a hugeass head dumbass on 4chan: there are no women with big heads me: ok
jesus incel ideology is kinda  terrifying
Awwwww...stupid whore doesn't like it when men would rather go without or see prostitutes than be emotionally abused by greedy, evil skanks out for men's money and nothing else.  No amount of butthurt silent downvotes or whining about that fact will make it otherwise, losers.  Bleat and cry about being so easily revealed for what you are below, evil transparent whores:
Eres tan inteligente. Me agradas mucho...
I heard of Incels but never cared for it or got into it. Seems dumb from the outside, toxic in the inside. Going outside couldn't be better advice.
I really appreciate that you never use anger in your videos, it makes it enjoyable to watch even as an involuntary celibate.
I enjoyed the video immensely, but I gotta ask - what lipcolor are you wearing? I need it!
At no point do you seem to be capable of sympathy. You've all but said outright that these people deserve to be treated as though they have no worth what so ever in your eyes. At this point, you've proven beyond a dought that you are exactly as these people view you. But! Here is a thought what if? hear me out. You empathize with them, try to be more understanding and inclusive, see them as human beings. stop labeling them with dehumanizing terms and blaming them for the abuse they had to endure and just genuinely care about them as people. Do you think maybe then their opinion of you might change?
well made it to 16 minute mark and now she's completely lost all sight of the initial point of understanding "incels" that she stated at the start of her rant and has turned this entire video into a finger pointing blame game where she states that men are 100% to blame for her actions and that if your upset you've been treated poorly it's only because you deserve it and I deserve better.
Then she goes into males feeling body shamed and victim blames the victim. I'm still only 8 minutes in and not once has she even tried to understand how these people feel. All she has done so far is mock and lecture people as if they are less human then she is. Jesus this girl is something else.
Using terms such as Incels while bitching about "incels" using dehumanizing terminology. Pot calling the kettle black much? You know cause using terms such as adult males is too humanizing a term for these pathetic losers. Obviously, she doesn't see them as brothers or sons or maybe even potential fathers.
Does she know what the terms mock and lecture even mean? I had hardly gotten 3 minutes into the video and it seems that's all she is doing. Even going as far as to joke about murder, at no point is it ok to joke about that.
You're too hard on Peterson. Tumbler is trash. This was another great video.
the sea is my waifu
chad chad chad chad chad chad chad chad -- I think im more or a chud although my mum calls me chadster.
Fascinating and sympathetic.  You have earned a subscriber.
I feel like I shouldn’t be so surprised or disappointed that “imagine how a woman feels” was about how it feels for a man to physically touch a woman, and not about the emotions or opinions or experiences of women, like I assumed it would.
Don't agree with everything ContraPoints says (I lean right on many issues), but I'm with her on incels.
This is one of the greatest pieces of postmodern research and analysis. Also, you are gorgeous.
Another cancerous channel, moving on...
I, too, want to fuck the ocean
Cock carousel is a great name for a band
just found out what a incel was from joe rogan
I don't know how I found my way here but I like it.
If you ever feel clockable, Nat, I want you to know this is the first video of yours I ever watched, and I didn't know anything about you, and until 17:37, I didn't know.
I just want to know how no one noticed that philosophy tube read the opening reddit post
Ahhh, the link to the intro title music in the description is broken 😢 anyone knows what the name of the song is?
Come on bitch! I'm a nice guy!
In conclusion it's over for shortcels
*S P R E A D S E E D*
“The manosphere exists because rock and roll is dead.” 😂 hi I fucking love you, subbed.
" I've been this guy... now I'm a girl, so broke out of the system. Ha, ha, to you." xD
I was legit trying to figure out whether or whether not you were Trans the only reason I was debating was cause in another video of you that I watched about a year ago I thought you said you were Trans
You are incredibly insightful and funny. Please keep doing this 💚
MUITO OBRIGADA PELAS LEGENDAS EM PORTUGUÊS
What does TTTT mean? I get that it's the 4chan group for transitioning transgenders, but I'm curious to know what the other 2 Ts stand for. Thanks!
It's the first time I'm watching your videos and... I'm in love
Hey if you want a big woman hating organization with a more positive spin, the catholic church is still open. Literally yall are the modern version of "women are sinful creatures" i hope this video helped pull the wool out from over your eyes at least a little, because now that i understand your whole story, more needs to be done to enrich yall past this toxic viewpoint
is that a fucking tranny lol nice fake voice
For real natalie you are so fucking beautiful. I wish i was as beautiful as you.
Ma’am you are very beautiful :)
After watching this I realized incels are a real messed up individuals. There is some truth to what they say but they take it too far
dating is a competition lol
there are ugly people
I didn’t even know you we’re once a man, your transition was near flawless.
So petty and immature, they deserve their fate tbh. Just sit in your mom's basement all day, shittalk women and victimize yourself on the internet, you did it to yourself my dude.
Okay I'm insta subbed XD
Im a plantcel. Every day we are cucked by the chad moon 😔
If anybody ever introduces themselves to me, by labeling themselves as an incel, I'm either going to punch them or walk away without words.
What was the problematic thing on 18:49
I am almost a year behind in discovering this video. But I love it! Hilarious and informative. Well done.
What we really learned about this video point is that Contra is sexually attracted to meteorological systems. And really, that's the important thing.
Why celibate?There are a lot of hookers everywhere.
I am an anarcha-feminist. I believe objectification is bad.
My skull size is enormous and I’m cis. Wtf lol
I hate that it took me this long to find your channel. You're fucking hilarious.
Good video, but I still think you're denying human nature, by denying that these women are not rejecting men en masse due to looks (because the modern unnatural world has affected their standard), and by denying the natural sexuality of men - yes it is natural and healthy for men to constantly think about sex. we cannot help it, mother nature put it into us and there's nothing wrong with it. many incels are not just being rejected on dating sites where as you say there are a catalogue of faces, they're rejected in the physical world to, out in clubs, at the supermarket, in social events with friends. its a genuine problem that women are doing to men in this unnatural world, and is not the fault of the incel, its the fault of mother nature's requirement that for romantic attraction to occur facial attraction must be present (above all other qualities that make us human), and the fault of modern society that has raised this physical attraction bar extremely high to an unnatural degree (due to social media, mass marketing, internet constantly showing people attractive looking faces). you are suggesting men can easily find women if they dont go on dating apps, this is untrue for people with average or below average looks, who would still find it extremely different. the requirement for looks above all else does not change if in person to online.
I keep trying. I do. But I just can't watch this bullshit. This is like listening to Richard Spencer explain what a Jew is.
This is art
As a 5'5 trans guy with no brow ridge and skinny wrists but has no problem getting laid, i think the problem with incels might just be that they dont see women as people because all the things they bitch and moan about are things most trans guys would have and aside from transphobia obviously most of us dont have a problem getting girls, its really not that difficult just treat women as people not flesh socks used for you to get off.
Was in comments for a completely unrelated video. Someone recommended watching this video (which I've already seen a few times). Someone ELSE responded insulting you based on nothing. So I came here to watch the video again. Dropping a comment mostly to feed the youtube algorithm. Probably better for me and better for you than me getting in a comment war with an idiot.
Incels should get on Grindr and see  hiw many messages  they get... you don't have to be gay to get the ego boost. Infact every man should.
i love u Natalie but it's kinda werid that you coddle incels despite they don't view women as humans, and many of them actively expressing their urge to rape and kill women.
This is the first of your videos I've watched and I loved every minute of it! You're absolutely fantastic at what you do:)
i think i'm in love.  :)
Lowkey upset you didn’t use Ravel’s “La Mer” at the end
I think a huge point that incels miss, and that i haven't yet heard you touch on, is that women work harder to be more attractive than men. We set ourselves to extremely high standards, so a girl in her most natural form may be a six, but she puts in the hours and money to make herself an 8. Everyone can improve their appearance, and its something that incels take for granted, preferring to wallow in what they were born with, rather than improving upon it
Im in love with you, omg what an educated godess 👏🏽👏🏽👏🏽
How does her experience as a trans woman compare to life as a typical women, this is so retarded
BRUHHH ‘RICECELLS’, ‘CURRYCELLS’, ‘CHANGS’ AND ‘CHADPREETS’ HOW TF DO Y’ALL TAKE THIS SERIOUSLY 💀💀
No......
you are amazing
Best content I've seen in a while and I'm pretty well versed in to catch a predator compilations.
you are a saint for including the awesome music in the description as well
really funny video, I subscribed.
Wow, my word these videos are incredibly well made. Also, would smash xD
This video made me lose The Game
Fuck you  Sincerely Wrath
I know this is a serious subject but you are CRACKING ME UP every two minutes
Chedpreet got a laught out of me
I mean.. I imagined it, but it was of me and my boyfriend.. and now I’m thinking about having spontaneous sex with him just because I’m bored.
Daniel Radcliffe is 5'6, and he got a lovely woman. So many women and men also thirsted after him for years, and still thirst after him. He was the first man I thought about when I was in high school.
I used the language at the start of this a lot... when I was 12.
Contrapoints goes on Tinder both as a woman and as a man.  *Now **_this_** is science*
Roosh V. Ultra-masculine baker. Bread scientist.  Wow. Roosh, your enormous ISIS beard doesn't inure you to having to justify making bread?
The sour grapes comment was A+! You’re pretty, I hope that hon bs doesn’t mess with you and make you feel like you need facial surgery. No one should ever be made to feel like they need surgery to exist as themself.
You are fantastic. That's all I wanted to say.
I'm so fucking glad I wasn't in high school when all this shit was around...
9:20 incels really not out here seeing beautiful women with some garbage heap of a man?
Dat is a boy......
If this isn’t one of the most important videos of our time, idk what is. Eloquent and truly in the spirit of explaining phenomena in our world from a completely different viewpoint than my own. You’re amazing 💕
ugh, well I never believed in that kinda stuff, but I had a long period of self loathing and where I thought that I´d never be able to date a woman, have sex and be loved and I kinda started to blame it on things I thought to have no control about and I also kinda hated women, because of how lonely and depressed I was.  thankfully I am much better now, I learned to accept care and love from others and most importantly myself, and I am a happy person now.  I guess what I wanna say is that this incel thing sounds both very otherwordly and crazy and also strangely nostalgic to me ... come to think of it, I also was surrounded by some really toxic macho men back then and the women in my life weren´t any better.  they all, one way or another, treated me like a lesser man, and I myself did that to me of course ... like a fucking echo chamber of depression and pity.  shit I feel sorry for my past self. but in a good way. pat myself on the back, I accomplished alot for myself, self respect, love, happiness.
the best way to pick up girls is to be a girl
Got recommended this video a few days ago. Aaaaaand subbed
почему при скачивании видео субтитры которые есть в YouTube при просмотре на планшете уже не работают?так хочется посмотреть весь выпуск, подскажите может где то есть с переводом или субтитрами
I just love how classy this take down is. By truing to make the incel theory sound legible and putting into way better words than they do, she made it clearly sound ridiculous. Bravo Contra, you literal icon.
""Chads of Color"" I'm dying!!!!!!!
You! Are a bundle of STICKS!
Ok, first time finding your channel, until you flat out said you were trans I thought you were a cis girl. You remind me of my 4th grade teacher, she was very tall and beautiful, and obsessed with Brazil. Anyways, you look like her twin lol.
My friend sent me this video because of the part on self-harm (I'm having a Very Bad Time lately) and I would like to thank you so much for putting it into words. I don't think I can watch the full video right now (even thinking about some of the incel shit I've seen and heard of makes me sick to my stomach) but I'll definitely watch the whole thing soon. Thanks again for this well-thought-out, well-spoken video.
Oh man I'm 4 minutes and this is already a hard watch lol which is by no means her fault. Man these incels holy @#$&..... I try to be sympathetic honestly I do. I feel like every guy understands that its gotta suck. It's easy to say sex isn't important when you've had it and I wanna say any guy could end up like this if they were in that situation. but BOY do they make it as difficult as possible I mean I'm 4 minutes in and it's already so hard!! Anyway this is my first video of hers that I'm watching and I'm only here because she made me laugh so hard on this other girls channel that I watched where she did a little guest spot. Also I think she's trans in which case I hope she tells me I can just hate them cause I will and it'll just be so easy. Sad to say but just from the sixty seconds she was on the other video I know she's smarter than I am lol not a super high bar. Anyway here's hoping in 31 minutes I get to just hate them because it's not going to be easy if she tells me I can't just yet.
The way you spoke about the similarities between TTTT and Incels also made me think that there's a fucked up similarity with the Pro-Ana community
CHADJEETS OMG LOL
You're awesome and beautuful and amazing go you miss <3
While I do not wish loneliness on anyone, if incels only just laid down and died then sure, but please don't shoot up a school, attempt rape, actually rape and/or kill women because you can't bang. My god, the nerve of these people.
u are very sexy and charismatic.......whats that body lookin like?
Does this mean if I ever accidentally call a trans woman hun affectionately they would think I was insulting them?! Oh no! (and this is my 2nd video of yours and you sound lovely!)
I'm shocked at how they are so desperate for sex yet hate women so much
Nuts idea: incels cant get the girl because they’re gay Just saying Don’t come for me
Hypocrite
Society has deceived our youth, and this is the consequence of people learning the truth.
It';s been fucking months and I finally just got the "It's a Divine city" joke
Ok I'll mock incels. I didn't get laid until I was 19. So men get bitter when they can't get laid? Hold the fucking presses. I'm assuming you didn't go to a lot of Dungeon&Dragon conventions. I did. MAN THE FUCK UP. Get a good job and wait. NEVER try to flirt or get laid. Treat women who will no doubt have classified you as an easy affirmation fix store with absolute indifference (unless your friends in which case don't be a dickhead unless you're nurturing a secret crush in which case never speak to her again, it's better for everyone). That alone might get you laid but don't assume it until you are actually inside someone!! NB! Anyway once you figure out that women who want to settle down and have kids (which they have been biologically selected for for billions of years just like you have been selected for the overriding and insane sex drive driving you mad right now)might actually prefer something other than the dumb jock cause reasons. If you are clean and take good care of yourself and make a decent living I promise you you will find love. Now that you're finally getting some, DO NOT MARRY OR COMMIT FOR 5 YEARS OR SAY 3 RELATIONSHIPS. By then you might figure out that being on your own and being able to do whatever the fuck you want may not have been as bad as you always thought. Also you may not be the sweet loving perfect man you always thought you would be if only someone would give you a chance.
17:18 lol I'm this guy right now. Except I'm a girl, so I guess the incels will not take me seriously. Still gonna try do my best and maybe go out and do something productive today. Wish me luck.
hey! i own the same cutting board as roosh! although come to think of it, it's from IKEA. everyone has the same cutting board as roosh.
.....Isn't baking a historically male dominated profession? Funny, thought a red pill guy would have some story about how the evil women feminized baking so good manly men would starve but I guess I was just expecting too much brain activity.
the concept alone makes me want to run head first ,into a wall. For a punch of "smart" guys they really seem to disregard their social ineptitude as a detergent for women.
I literally can’t get over how beautiful and intelligent she is. Like she just seems like an amazing person to talk to, and probably a great friend :)
Nobody wants to admit that they're the problem, and they'll go CRAZY deep into whatever rabbit hole there is, not to have to face that they're actually behaving like a "bad guy". Everyone wants to be their own protagonist... which is understandable. But not always defensible with no exception. You get a lot farther by admitting that you're doing something wrong and trying to do better, than you do by burying your head in the sand and pretending like you're god's gift to life. It's not always fun, but it's overall so much better.
"Volcel if you wouldn't, bitches" killed me dead. God, you're a badass.
My skull circumference is 59 cm/23.2 inches.  Guess I'm a dude, then.
while I see that beautiful and gloomy place where to speak I imagine a lot of incels to which you exclavizas and grabs the hair to penetrate them
youtube unsubscribed me
I’d straight up gay up and ask you on a lady date.
I’ve had partners with all the “flaws” people here are whining about supposedly holding them back. Thin wrists/very slender men, big men, tall men, short men, people with different skull shapes (?), different temperaments, races, and “above” and “below” my league. Never occurred to me to judge them lesser because of those things, but obsessing over how masculine they were at any moment instantly turned them into man babies in my eyes. I think these incel men are projecting their own idea of leagues onto everyone else, like incel dudes I know aim way out of their league based on nothing but a woman’s looks and then act like she’s shallow for saying no and don’t realize their interest in her was itself shallow.
Do you think it's better for Incels like me to just kill themselves before they become a problem to society?
the fact that ur trans had me shook xd no offence ofc just a little moment of shook throughout the big moment of appreciating ur commentary and aesthetics
first video. Super good!
#muremzajaszczurem
17:04 to be fair, tinder actually is garbage in general. It's relatively much easier to find a partner in the more traditional way
Is she a tranny or not ? Would bang either way.
So....is me or do the "wrist cels" seem like they're obsessed with fisting?  Or am I just misinterpreting their rants?
I was ugly as fuck in high school (still am) and even I managed to have a girlfriend. Fucking hell, I see ugly guys with good looking girls (not all the time) but I certainly notice it. Just another black eye for the anti-feminists.
contra makes an honest effort
petition to be renamed part of the ‘skull people’.
Thanos should of snapped incels
admit it you are Incel too. i'll let you ride my cock carousel.
this digital self harm you mentioned very much reminds of my days in pro eating disorder forums. it's scary how similar all these kinds of forums really are. glad you got out of this fruitless hellhole too :)
Happy St Elliot's Day! I wish you a cup of nice vanilla latte. And remember: THE FUTURE IS OURS!
A tranny lecturing incels on mental health
excellent video overall. Wait excel... could that be short for ex-celibate? dun dun dun!!!!
The beginning of this video is a complete censorship failure. Censoring anatomical/biological words while still having the act intimately described throughout the entire post is absolutely pointless. If someone is going to be mentally/emotionally "harmed" by hearing the words for sexual body parts uttered, they most certainly would be "harmed" by the sexual acts described in depth. If you are going to include this passage at all, it is absolutely useless, pointless, and regressive to censor any part of it. If your concerned about rules and guidelines, make the video adult content and leave it at that. I mean for fuck sake you are talking about incels. You surely don't think that by censoring a few words you are going to make this video anything other than NSFW. Am I missing the point? Is the censoring supposed to be a joke? If it is, it certainly doesn't appeal to my sense of humor. To me it's just annoying.
A man! Lmao
The constnt "not all" disclaimer vehund every uttered word is a sign of the times.
Yikes. Today I guess I learned what an incel is... sounds like the dudes who go out committing mass shootings and murders.
that was pretty insightful and fun. You earned yourself a subscriber.
19:09 Actually, I heard people prefer dickgirls, but thats just heard and I don't know if thats true
16:30 Am I genuinely missing something here? I thought there were only a few "incel mass murders" at best. Granted, a few out of a small group is a high percentage but I feel like it might be a bit dishonest. More importantly, I'd like to know how many there actually are, though.  [edit] To be clear there are quite a few points I agree with which is why I'm only wondering about this one for the time being.
Holy shit! I just realized  a pretty dark coincidence regarding your final advice.  Just a couple of weeks after this video was released, a german singer named Daniel Küblböck committed suicide by jumping from a cruise ship into the Atlantic ocean. He was a flamboyent young gay man with serious mental problems and (probably) gender dysphoria.
I just discovered your channel, and I've already binge watched five videos.   You're funny, empathetic, relatable and insanely strong. You being comfortable in your identity is an inspiration to so many of us. Thank you so much for speaking up for transgender rights, we really need more icons like you.   More love and power to you, and I really hope you get whatever you wish for.   A fan.
Utterly magnificent. Insightful and funny.    One question left open is why people seek out criticism.   I think most people go through a phase where they court insults - usually as teens - to harden them against those insults. It's an ordeal by fire that - in most folks - simply tempers their nature to withstand cruelty and accept their defects, deficiencies and peculiarities. In personal, face to face interactions, the responses are only occasionally cruel and mostly humorous. Only the most psychopathically sadistic bully would turn up the temperature on someone who is already withering.    Unfortunately, the digital world is such a perfectly resonating echo chamber that the call for criticism gets a deafening response that can disturb and overwhelm even the most resolute nature. I think it is healthy - almost essential - to go through that developmental phase of self-criticism and self-doubt but definitely not to do it on the internet. Out there be  monsters. There are a hundred million psychopathically sadist bullies just waiting in their parents' basements for a hapless victim to stumble by.
Watching this, aside from learning about incels, I've also learned about the "hon" thing and am now worried that my habit of using the word without knowing it's meaning in the trans community might have been hurting my trans friends...
Interesting 1st 1min basically sums the whole problem as being of universals, hahahahahhahahaha fail.
7:30 h...how do you know that  7:33 *how do you know that*
Just found you but your videos are addicting, this is what happens when you browse YouTube in incognito 🤷🏾‍♂️
So, this is the first time I've ever watched one of your videos or ever heard of you, and 1) took me a couple minutes to warm up to your style, but now I love it, 2) thank you for giving such well researched info, and 3) had no idea you are trans and I literally grew up around trans women, one of whom is my dad and even after you said it, I still see you as a woman. Anyway, thanks for your video and your insightful thoughts!
OMG I am listening to you right now on Ezra Klein! I love him
My man out there trannymaxxing JFL
thank you for this video, you did a great job being respectful and balanced. I have a lot of sympathy for the incels, because I worked in mental health and a lot of the statements remind me of former patients.
Have you any proof that Jordan Peterson is a sexist? This is a serious accusation. If you throw this word around, it loses its meaning and becomes a meaningsless buzzword.
Yeah, let's make fun of lonely depressed guys! Awesome
Hun is also a slang word in the anti-MLM community, meaning someone who tries to sell you MLM crap on facebook or try to get you to be a part of their "amazing business oppurtunity" (scam).
Um just on the “big head” thing. There definitely are women with large heads, you know, like Marilyn Monroe.  Soo if you haven’t heard of it I’d recommend reading into Kibbe body types for anyone that’s interested but basically most women with ‘romantic’ body types (soft, round features. Not as in chubby but the bone structure itself, soo round eyes button nose sloped shoulders) usually have larger heads it’s really not uncommon.
This guy found the solution, instead of chase women be one jajajaja
Two friends: - Hey , how is your sex life? - No sex life - You're incel too? - No , I'm married
After watching this, I am kinda despised yet sympathizes with the Incels. Like let’s be honest with each other, will we end up like them when anxiety and lack of self love get the best of us? Being an introvert is one thing, but an incel takes on a whole new level.
Everytime I watch this video my soul leaves my body at that intro.
This is intense, and maybe one of your best works imo. Olly's voice work is amazing, the humor, and a scary humanizing sympathy. I think the linking of the trans and incel struggles is incredibly apt and makes me understand both better as a cis man who is tbh unsure about their sexual persuasion, while being almost a call for solidarity to pull people away from the death cult of inceldom you describe. This one is gonna stick with me.   Also as someone who doesn't use dating apps, the experience of trans women on Tinder seems both fascinating and harrowing from this and some other things I've read.
I lowkey wanna date an incel. I know it's bad and that they would hate me (genderqueer, feminist). I just want to help them idk.
that ending. I'm gonna go 5th base with the sea
This is a good video, thank you
damn whoever wrote that thing in the beginning needs to start a soft core porno book series
Reddit is so pure and clean compared to 4chen.
The music you use when describing "dark internal thoughts" is truly on point. I'm reminded of my closeted teenage years.
Wait Why does the drawing of "the Stacy" litterly just look like Trisha Paytas
15:06 They CAN'T. They've tried and failed multiple times.
Sidenote: nice music selection!
Wow, this is utterly bizarre. I never really knew much about incels except hearing the word in podcasts and such. You provide some amazing information as well as did this in a compassionate way and really feel like anyone identifying as an incel should see this. You have a unique ability to critique as well as sympathize (to a rational extent).
When you're high everyone is Chad or Stacy
i thought you were a cis woman till 20 mins in
I thought that Philosophy Tube and I was right.
8:06 no mention of Latinos? What a cop out.  8:21 so did we completely forget that Latinos exist?
I think it's sexier in general to talk about the game last night than about, like, Dostojevsky and the hopelessness of existence.
SO MANY NEW NAMES FOR PSYCHOPATHS WOW 😲
Wait, I feel like we actually WOULD have a lot less incels if these cretins would just take their frustrations out onto an electric guitar like a normal person.
Thank you, thank you, thank you
Oh God PT nooooo
Can't understand incels , there are ugly women walking on the earth ,you can take them
"Is that even alloweed?!?!"
I despise you normie, leave us alone  19:52 wait a sec. women dont like that, thank you i have ascended
Incels and MGTOW are quite similar. Both hates women, both believes males are "inherent superior", both wanna take women's rights away. Both believe women are the devil incarnates and the root of male problems. Which is so ironic for then to blame women for all their issues despite always moaning about women not take responsibility for our own problems.
is hon a blocked word
This video is bullshit. I've been rejected by femoids my entire life, and for what? I'm good-looking and I have a good personality. But all of you cunts keep intentionally ignoring me. You will pay one day.
Another key point is that EVERYONE has to develop skills (such as socializing, communicating) that they aren’t naturally good at.
I’m Filipino. Am I Ricecel because I eat rice or am I a Currycel because I’m brown? I’m curious.
Absolutely stunning! Thank you
???  she basically took everything that this group of people made up, and now she's profiting off of it, and people here are calling this video her magnum opus? she just repeated what this group of people say.
YOU MAY PROTEST IF YOU CAN LOVE THE PERSON YOU ARE PROTESTING AGAINST AS MUCH AS YOU LOVE YOURSELF
As a woman, I feel uncomfortable.
5:49 Instantly turning on "Let's talk about sex baby, let's talk about you and me"
Science has so many refined disciplines these days; I want to hear from some actual bread scientists speaking out against Roosh V
Thank you. I've learned a lot. Also your beautiful, don't cut it off imo.
Contrapoints is so amazing
If I'm a hetero man, and I think a transwoman like Contra is attractive, but don't want to play with their dick, does that make me an asshoe?
Oh wow, this channel is awesome 😍
Awesome video! Just found your channel and I'm gonna be binging your content. This video spurred quite some debate among my friends, and the question was raised about what constitutes the "manosphere." Do you think that the sissy community and it's obsession with the Alpha/beta dichotomy means that it fits into this same framework, or is it more like another isolated community (similar to 4chan's LGBT forum that you brought up)? Thanks, and look forward to your next video!
Brava!
When I first saw this I had no clue that ALL of the voiceovers were Ollie. Now that I've finished Contra's backlog and started religiously watching PhilosophyTube, I can recognize his voice. It's remarkable how talented he is.
I'm 5'8, and I hit up a 5'9-10 girl who probably had the prettiest face I've ever seen on a woman. We were chatting, had some obvious commonality, so I asked her out. She said yes. We went out for a few weeks before it hit me how much higher I was punching. I asked her why she said yes, and she told me without missing a beat "You didn't bring up how I was tall, and you didn't call me beautiful eight different times. You also asked me out. I've been asked out four ((or five, this was about 6 years ago)) times in my whole life and three of the four involved how hot I was because of my legs. The other was a normal ask out but he opened with how cool it was that I was tall. I'm not a sideshow"   It made me sad that boys made her feel this way. But it makes me shudder to think how incels behaved to get to where they are. The point that they look fine is very poignant. They likely just treat women like the meat worthy of the title "Femoid" and they wonder why they don't get anywhere.
This video has been recommended to me for weeks now and I’ve ignored it because all I could think was “oh geez another woman going to shit on incels and only discuss how gross they are”. I don’t agree with incels and definitely don’t condone their beliefs but I do appreciate the overall point of this video talking about basically what they are and how they got to this point. Super awesome!! Subscribed!!!
Does anyone else find it funny how leftists pretend to be the tolerant and compassionate ones yet they keep constantly bullying and mocking low value men?
I’m waiting for an incel explanation for existing of lesbians.
I lost it at chadpreets.
Eloquent. Well-produced. Funny. Informative. Excellent screenplay. Found a new channel to follow.
6.35 conflating racism, with generalisations about  female intellect. Women seem to be intellectually inferior to men for the most part. There has been no great female thinkers,   Claiming that is being descriptive nothing more.   We have to point out female under achievement, because men are attacked for it, men are blamed for it, as feminists claim men conspire to keep women down. This is a paranoid conspiracy theory of course.
no
Imagine how a woman feels? your boyfriends are asking the same question Contrapoints, as they rub up against your manly body.
Is there other channels on YouTube that a cis gender white Chad alpha, like myself, could watch to familiarize himself w race/LGBT issues? I love this channel and I want more content like it. I feel like I don't get enough exposure to individuals who are dealing with these issues enough to sufficiently sympathize with them in everyday goings-on unfortunately. It might be because of my privilege, bias etc. but I feel like a lot of content online that attempts to forward LGBT/racial agendas are too...preachy? I'm trying to think of a way to not be offensive in my critiques, but, yeah. I just want more of this type of content that feels more conversational and less combative, I guess. Thx PS: The "Chad alpha" part was a joke. Plz don't yell at me
What a GEM
Incels have the science to back it up. Looks matter
I think the self hate and criticism incels form for themselves originate from the judgemental attitude towards the world. People often say that if you weren't so judgemental towards other people, you wouldn't hate yourself or life as much since people often deep down know that antisocial behavior is negative and wrong and begin a cycle of hating themselves for it.
Once sex robots and vr porn become mainstream, these guys won't be an issue
Imagine that *PssSSAE*
Now I need a full-length sea erotica, narrated by Natalie of course
My reaction during that whole opening monologue was just shaking my head vigorously while muttering "nope, no thanks, no, stop, why dear god no, please stop" and wondering what the actual fuck was going through that man's head while he wrote that and then deciding I definitely DID NOT want to think about that.
So many names for women! Why did they need the word 'incel' anyway, we already have a perfectly good name for them - virgins
even though you are on the left and im on the right. I absolutely love your videos. You are funny and actually bring up great points
And you're a sexist young man, William.
*FEEEEEEEEEEEEMMOIIIIIIIDZZZZZZ*
Every time I look in the mirror, I'm actually a pretty decent looking guy...but 5 mins into taking my focus into something else when I go outside I have this distorted,  ugly and grotesque image of my face that are not even my actual face features stuck in my head. Voices in my head telling me that I am ugly as sin and everyone I encounter is just grossed out with how I look. Sometimes i try to block it out but they are just so damn loud that it takes over my whole mindset which leads to me feeling like shit. Only to find out it was all in my head...is this what mental illness feels like?
I'm a straight guy but if I didn't know u were trans I would totally fuck you 😂😅. Not even kidding.
Me: *Sees the pinned comment has 420 replies.* Me: Nice.
what's the solution then Mr. Contrapoints?
Still her greatest hit
"The inherent eroticism of the sea..." FINALLY I FEEL SEEN! lolol You rock!  :D
This elliot guy was hit so hard and it seems like, they didn't even think about criticising the society he is in. I don't agree  on killing those people, but I see some points of where he was coming from. All I can think about is maoist china and how human beings there didn't care, what clothes you were wearing or what you looked like, but what your opinions and values were. The fight for Socialism is a fight against the reproduction of incels. Clearly this society created incels as a byproduct and it wouldn't occur in a society, where people self critic and aren't acting constantly.
Tyrone Chang and Chadpreet lmfaoo 😂😂 Gotta give it to them the bastards are atleast funny at times
Amazing! This is such a brilliant approach to a complicated topic; it's funny, well researched and compassionate. Thank you.
this video is too good :'O
I also get v uncomfortable when I know other women give me bs compliments. So here is a v real string of compliments I have thought while watching ur vids: You are not only incredibly eloquent but funny as hell. This makes your videos very entertaining while addressing topics that NEED to be addressed. You have GORGEOUS hair, a rockin bod and a very Anne Hathaway esq beauty.
Your the best.
This video was informational, humorous, edited better than some movies, this was awesome! Keep up the amazing work, you gained a new subscriber ☺️☠️
i guess its easier to blame women and classically atractive men for your problems than to wash your balls, have a personality, treat women like human beings, dress well, and not be a general piece of shit
I’m ugly as fuck but even I got matches on tinder the hard part isn’t getting laid it’s having stable relationships in your life.
This channel is perfect
Side note on your plans for more facial reconstruction. I dont know if you're serious or not, but I think you're beautiful and feminine looking. I didnt know you were trans in the first two videos of yours I saw.
so, i see at the beginning that some random incel thought he could actually compete with le marquis de sade! pffff!
Thx you, thé people confuse the Migtow with INCEL because of you ☠️
This video is so fucking funny. Also you're hot as fuck.
I love your style. <3
I didn't know about "hon"... I use it as a term of endearment for everyone I meet... I'm sorry, I won't use it again at a transwoman.
I kinda identify with the MGTOW crowd more then the incel crowd. However I kinda feel like their needs to be a group beyond MGTOW, one that acknowledges that most men are selfish pricks too, and that woman's selfishness is more due to a systemic cultural dysfunction where everyone is more or less out for themselves.
Why do they do it (post to forums who attack them)? Pathos. It's an emotional connection with other people. Cutting oneself has a different reason, there is self-forgiveness afterwards (releases an opiate, akin to taking morphine without doing drugs). The internet enables something which defeats human psychology, abusive parasocial relationships.
this is the best video of all internet
I'm technically an Incel. I don't hate anyone (except fascists). I don't have any feelings of animosity towards woman. I'm just crushingly lonely. I've always turned away, my affections always rebuked. I turned 32 today, and each year my birthday is a moment of great depression and sadness. I've stood at the brink of suicide many times last year. I feel worthless. I promised my mother that I'll try one more year to see if I can be no longer so unhappy. If not, I'm allowed to go.
So it's a little shocking to me how this reminds me of how eating disorder forums and communities function. Eating disorder communities are where majority cis women go to indulge in self hate spiraling and catastrophizing. Posting photos of yourself to purposefully be mocked by others, discussing why your body will never be "good enough" because of things that you can never change. There are /so/ many points that Natalie made about how unreasonable the mind set of incels can be that I would have deeply related to a couple of years ago when I was active on an eating disorder forum. The main difference is that those who struggle with eating disorders don't take their anger out on other. The anger is aimed completely internally and eating disorders have some of the highest rates of death out of all mental illnesses. It's just interesting when someone is experience self hatred and body image issues, cis men are more likely to become an incel and cis women are more likely to develop an eating disorder.
I can't dislike your video, though. You make some great points.
13:30 That's not even close to the same thing as how incels think. If you're a 22 year old virgin who has been rejected countless times, chances are you simply know that you're not going to have it easy getting laid in the future. That's not the same as believing you'll never get laid. There's incels who gymmaxx & still try to be out there. Others simply don't feel like spending all their free time at the gym or dieting. If that is the case, and they're doomed to be single most of their lives, of course they're going to be miserable. You're one of those people who refuses to feel any empathy whatsoever for incels.
I dunno what their deal is.  I don't get laid, but don't exactly care
What’s this about baking not being masculine or alpha? One of the guys I know once brought me brownies he made himself. That moment is literally what ignited my fatass crush on him.
i'm sure i've commented this before but this video should win awards. it is by far the best thing on youtube. hilarious, gorgeously and delightfully stylized, informative and important and brave and created from a place of wisdom and empathy and intellectual curiosity.... natalie is the embodiment of "badass."
it's really nice and all that you take it up the ass and dress up but you really have no idea what you're talking about and even more severe is that you aren't funny.
My darkest wish is to have a Smash Bros version with all of Natalie's characters, epic battles between the most iconic characters in the left, that's what this world needs.
I sub to MGTOW for the lulz but Reddit won't let me sub to braincels for the same reason. :(
I literally have more fucked up bones than pretty much any incel. I still got laid. Life finds a damned way.
Me nine months ago: This video is cool omg who is she why was this in my recommended? Ooh that narrator? Ooh who is she?  Me now after finding and love Leftist youtube: OMG NOW I RECOGNIZE THAT'S OLIVER'S VOICE???!!! Contra is so cute???? Always??? Slay????!!!
What's the name of the title track? The link in bio doesn't work anymore...
IDK if I commented before but thank you for pronouncing "chaise longue" correctly.
I like how you didn't talk about MGTOW. Nice.🌏🤡
Waste of human space just get out and talk to people its not that hard.
Wait...hon is an insult? A lot of fellow trans friends of mine call me that. I just thought it was short for honey.
I'm glad I never actually lost my virginity pre transition. I thought I wanted that at one point, but since coming out as trans I've realized that it was only ever because it was what society thought was normal. I am attracted to women, but I don't actually have any desire to do anything sexual. I'd much rather just hang out, chat, listen to music, watch tv, play video games, etc. So I'm a 35 year old virgin, pre transition that wasn't something I was proud of as I thought it meant I was something of a failure, but now I am proud that I never did that. I don't rule out the possibility of it happening at some point between now and when I die, but it's not something I am interested in pursing. I don't know if that means I was an Incel because I probably always was asexual, I just didn't understand why I felt the way I did.
So I'm a "Becky"? I thought I was a Simiana.
It’s as if all these men saw Married...with Children, and completely missed the satire.
Hummm... I just got to the 11th minute, although it was quite interesting. But as far as I went, it seems that the problematic situation of incels should be blamed entirely on themselves, ignoring the radical transformations of everyday life in these last 50 years or so.
what's hilarious is that Natalie may have left the academia but it never left her. this is The video that i share with all my fellow students and professors and I need this in a form of a peer-reviewed article so i can use it in At Least all my term papers.. anyway. mad respect.
Demography of the United States.  Age group 15-24 years old:  21 million women. 22 million men.  That's a surplus of 1 million men.   Look at 22 men and just by the numbers you know that for one of them, no woman exists.  Explains everything.
As a lesbian who is the most attracted to femmes, you're gorgeous.
A lot of what these people say is despicable but they need help. they are sand depressed people with serious mental health issues. If you want to actually make political change in the world, you need to understand the right and help them, not deamonise them.  listening to the stupid stuff they say makes My heart wrench that they believe that. Imagine what it would be like to actually think like that. Its horrible. I have so much sympathy. If we showed more sympathy then perhaps we could help people who would otherwise go down the tunnel into the alt right world
5:10 LOL I have a near textbook "Virgin Walk" (my posture's better) Though I prefer to call it "Anxious-Depressive Introvert Walk", and I don't blame women for my virginity/"singleness" - when I stop simulating every possible interaction in advance (sometimes a few years ahead), & don't hate myself (at least not as much), I'll be ready to love and be loved. And hey - that's what therapy & antidepressants are for! :D Plus, when you talked about the self-harming behaviours (around the 30:00 mark), and why people seek negative comments or cut themselves, it really resonated with me, because while I don't seek negative criticism online, I do almost look forward to failure so my self-hate can be affirmed. I've also struggled with physical self-harm for several years, and its reasoning evolved from "feeling anything", to "at least pain is real" to "I deserve this"; really both form of self-harm - physical and mental - come from the same place, and I've been extremely fortunate to have the support Incels seem to lack but think they have in their toxic community (of course it's also a question of personality, upbringing etc.) On a side note, I'd like to say how much I love your channel. I watched Shaun's mirrored video of yours "Does the Left Hate Free Speech", which sparked a ContraBinge over the last few days. You're awesome in every single way, and I'm so glad you and your channel exist. <3
you are terrifyingly talented
Well wowee.
Your theory on skulls is brilliant
she cute, dang
3.8k incels disliked this video
Please dont get cosmetic surgery.
Why am I slightly aroused by all the water stuff?
I loved this. Saw your vice interview and i had to check out your channel. You did not dissapoint.   Always found incels fascinating cause i growing up a nerd in the 90s. Worried i would never meet anyone unless i put on a fake thug act. Just took me being myself and talking to people who had the same interests. That and the internet.   Though i never held such resentment to others. It all seems so self destructive of a group yet they find camaraderie and their misogyny which just makes them more volotile and undesirable.   They need help the poor things.
damn this channel is something else! in a good way
I lost it at "An hyper masculine bread scientist."
Is it me or all of those incels seem to be hiding latent homosexual desires? And they blame us for not being lovable, as an excuse for their inability to love a girl. Just saying.
Goddamnit. I bake my own bread. I am rather proud of it. I love everything about the process. And for a moment, a goddamned Planck instant, I thought I'd have to give that up because I would then have something in common with that ridiculous, self-important cock lesion with the beard. That was a long fucking Planck instant. I'm all better now. Also, excellent video, breaking down the INCEL phenomenon.
Just go to /fit/
You look kinda like Keira Knightly and Winona Rider actually
32:47 "We were talking about Paris Hilton, a very relevant cultural figure in 2018"   That gets to me every time
I was almost an incel. I got to the point where I started to entertain the thought that women would never want me because I’m not attractive. I didn’t end up an incel but I did come out of that phase with the thought that I wasn’t good enough or that people didn’t like me. I realize now that I compared myself too much to the people I was around who were people I didn’t like all the much anyway. I have a new friend group now. People who invite me to things and seem to really care about me. I still struggle a bit with confidence but I’m a senior in high school who (less than a year ago) was consumed by the thought that all my friends hated me so I had to act in a way that I thought they would like while suppressing my actual interests so I think it would make sense that my confidence isn’t at 100%. Plus I’ve got all of college and the rest of my life to work on confidence.   In conclusion, please clap.
“Mom, I have to tell you something... I’m a _baker_ ”  “Oh honey!”
can we get an asmr of you tapping skulls and wispering incel propaganda?
27:10 me too.
*They've been churning out mass murderers faster than Marvel can make Avengers movies*
32:08 Ugh, women. Socializing, expressing themselves, talking about their problems, having opinions on art, experiencing emotion. The Feminazis are taking over!
Woah you gotta be careful with that sexy beachside. Don't want to get demonitized
It's not like asexual women exist or anything
It's not like women are ever incels (literally, not the ideology)... Even though the term was first used by a woman, to describe herself
The existence of Incels is a mental/emotional health catastrophe.
DFW you have the bone structure of a jellyfish so you grow a beard
This was the best video I've ever seen in my life. You are amazing! Such a beautiful and elegant woman
I got recommended this video from Stuff They Don't Want You To Know (and then got further encouragement from a friend), and this was super well put! You have a wonderful way of explaining both facts and your opinions regarding why incels are the way they are, and I'm definitely gonna check out more of your stuff! By the time I reached this video, I felt oddly...comforted. Your logic about self hatred and negative worldviews is (although not about being an incel or being trans, on my part) very relevant in my life right now, and I think I needed to hear it. Your vulnerability is appreciated!  (also you're so pretty, like, holy shit)
There's an author from the 70ies Esther Vilar. She wrote a book called ' the manipulated man' where she describes the same theory those poor lost souls called Incels have fallen for.
Just saying, can ‘imagine how a woman feels’ be grammatically right? I mean, a woman CANNOT be felt as a thing and imagine how she feels should be about... something like concerning about her life/ emotions? Hmmm...
I'm so sorry you've researched this...
Amazing.  Compassionate.  Funny.  Brilliant.  I cannot begin to tell you how much I love you, ContraPoints.
15:43 KYLO REN, IS YOU????
What I expected: more jabs at obviously mentally ill men by women who could never empathize with what blackpilled dudes feel What I got: a genuine, compassionate appeal to be aware of how the Internet feeds our self-loathing
There's nothing educational about this.  seriously.  WTH did I just watch?  NO thank you to Sinatra says for me being curious about this channel.  Also the dude/girl/ thing who is talking about all this is.. off putting.  LIke, what are you?!  Though I did learn of some seriously outrageous 4chan/urbandictionary terms.  many I didn't know about.  Not knowing about it was actually nice.  Entertainment value was pretty good though, and the production value was damn high.  So.. while entertaining, I restate, WTH did I just watch?  Also of note:  def not incel then, as never had the terms/views as stated here, been with a few women (2).  I'm not entirely Mgtow either.  for same reasons.  It's so fun to be hard to figure out and to basically fit no where.  Good news is there's SOOO damn much freedom!  asw I'm not vieing for anyone's approval, for validation from anyone else.  Huh, the left was right, it's good to be yourself.  Though I guess I'm probably a true celebate.  I kinda find sex disgusting, but I loooove the female form, and am still genetically hard wired to wanna do it with a woman.
Come on GUYS...............  2.35 MIL views?!?  Pathetic.  A women explaining how "incels" or even dudes think is SILLY
*WHO CARES "HOW A WOMEN/FEMALE FEELS"?>!!*    EVERYONE, it SEEMS in western culture bends OVER backward for females.  so MORE AND MORE MEN DON'T give a SHIT what a women feels!  I'm sure it's a 2D/short term thought/theory
i wish i was that skull
Too long, utterly and totally watched. Long story short, read poetry about the sea. You'll definitely feel better. Liked and subscribed, many thanks for this informative take!
Can even you talk with a normal voice for fucks sake? I came here in hopes of hearing some good anti-right arguments but all i see is a clown who cant speak like a normal person.
I'm a Religious Person  I ain't a leftist But excellent video
The bit about digital self harm reminds me of r/roast me. I always wondered what compelled people to post selfies there.
'femoids' sounds like a breathmint
How is cooking feminine? Wtf?
Don’t men try to fuck women hotter than themselves but settle with. 5/10 because they couldn’t get anything else? Why would you aim for lower than you can get? Makes no sense.
10:40 am I the only one who thinks the ‘cuckboy’ is cute? He also looks smart. I would expect ‘cuckboy’ to be ugly or something. But of course fuckboy is perfect for a fuck. So the incels aren’t entirely wrong but largely.
Ur gay
This is the best exploration of this topic I've seen!  Thanks.  It's alarming and sad.  Glad to understand this a little more and laugh a little.
I have the same internet language thing, but with tv tropes
damn.. as someone who suffers from a lot of anxiety and self hatred, this video was a huge wakeup call in more ways than one
the intro made me feel sick
i think the omnipresence of porn (especially violent porn) contributes a lot to people like these. they see sex everywhere, so they obsess over it until they can't think about anything else. even if they do have sex, they're perpetually unsatisfied by it because it's not as great as porn actors pretend it is.
Holy fuck I wouldve never guessed that youre actually a dude with a dick dressed as a women if it weren't for your voice. You look gorgeous!! wow
"The firing squad of bad dicks" 🤣🤣
It's 1:57am I'm on a youtube trip this was funny and informative  P.S. YEEEEEEEEEEEEETTTTTTTTTTTT
Most incels need to get over themselves. I have what they would consider an incel's skull structure, but I'm happily married and have two children. For most of you, not being a trash human being will help you.
Imagine someone who can read russian and cringes. dgitryaor rolitbtsyao komryaomdt Backwards k isn't an english letter or russian letter at least you used the Russian 'B' correctly
I'm a woman and I'll have to say that Contrapoints is a prettier woman than I'll ever be on any given day
This looks like a guy.
Funny how the guys in the comments section complain about women rejecting men based on height, yet how many men would want to date a women who is TALLER than them. You don’t think tall women (those over 5’9”) have problems getting dates? 😂   Also, guys, you can’t get mad for women rejecting you for “stupid reasons” when you do the same to us:  How many of you have rejected wonderful women because of their body size, boob size, butt size, skin color, nose shape, or facial deformities?
If only I can like this video a milion times! It's already my third time watching this and I still laugh so hard, your savage humor is everything! Natalie thank you for sharing your talent and intelligence with us!! Love you 😘 ♥️
i recognise a lot of this internet self hatred within the “transmed”/“truscum” community (which i admit i used to be a part of). would u ever consider doing a video on that?
I’m color blind, is she drinking water in a wine glass? That’s baller!
This is like dipping a toe into lava.
Que retardada
Salty embrace reminds me of-
This is amazing.  I wanna see more videos
A man pretending to be a woman. I'd blast my fucking brains out if I were you.
Your voice is lovely! Also love your makeup!!! So pretty!
As someone who used to watch MGTOW videos, I will say there is hope. After a few years a lot of the ideas go away, but not all. It is possible to lose the biases it creates.
olly’s voice acting in this is absolutely phenomenal
ContraPoints - Great stuff. As someone that has gone through much of this albeit implicitly, your black pill explanation is quite literally the rabbit hole I went down. This was ... 2017. It led me to a realization that I had instilled within a belief that I am inherently unattractive, and thus, unlovable. These insecurities stemmed from a personal experience with abandonment; my stepmom left me at a daycare when I was 5 years old, and I never saw nor heard from her again. I feel this is as human as it gets. Going further, I even attempted to "explain" away the experience with tales of "hypergamous" behavior ... she found another man and cheated with my father, for example ... thus it must be hypergamy! A 5 year old lacks any understanding of these terms. Anything imprinted on these experiences is a 31 year old's attempt to explain what simply cannot be explained. The real work is self-parenting to a child that never received love from those within his life, ultimately convincing himself that his circumstances are all he can hope for. The real insecurity is rationalizing the experience as evidence of our lack of power within our lives, whether in sex, love, career, hobbies ... that was carried for 25 years. Indeed, that goes beyond the realm of attraction -> That becomes our world.
I’m in love with you
19:20 Abigail is fricking hilarious. Her grimace is perfect.
S A L T Y  E M B R A C E
Why don't incels go trans
One thing that always confuses me about incels is like, why not give it a chance you know? Wallowing in self pity is 100% unproductive so like why not try something else? Worst case scenario you return to your Mountain Dew drenched den of loneliness and masturbation. Best case scenario your life turns around and you no longer need the crutch of inceldom or whatever the shit
I didn't know Attila was transgendered
She should write a book ❤️❤️
Hi I love you
I'm pleasantly surprised exterrestrial humour lol
$2000 Gucci bag? EXCUSE ME? THAT IS A $2442 ROSE GOLD GUCCI CLUTCH AND YOU WILL ADRESS IT AS SUCH. No self respecting Stacy would ever be caught dead with a fucking bag.
This video is a masterpiece
"Imagine how a woman feels..." You mean  like the mouthfeel?
Prospective Bachelor - What color are your panties? I would like to smell them!  Prospective Spinster - ????  Me - Her panties would smell like a faint whiff of raw sewage and ammonia, you filthy bastard.
Dude you are hilarious. Subbed.
This just makes me sad
"manly-man SKULLWISE"....SKULLWISE ahahaha. Why do they use these weird words?
The sad part is, this is 4-Chan is what is free reading material on the internet. Honestly, for me, I think choosing what I read & watch more carefully helped me with my involuntary celibacy. You know what though? I was Co-dependent & I needed help. I was always looking for a soulmate when in all reality that it does not exist.    That is not to say I don't love my current partner. I love them and am very happy with them. Although I will say learning my boundaries and not bowing at their feet is part of what is making me better. For other Incels, I think we should highly consider what mental health issues would be at play.
The first video I have seen on this channel nice voice and attitudes.
so, throw myself into the ocean ? got it
Lmao Natalie’s humor is just brilliant . That chadpreet got me ROFLIng . All the desis got that one 🤣🤣🔥👌
i can only imagine the great pain you went through researching this
Gurl!!! Thank you!! Men don’t understand that because we are offered more lay then them it is NOT all quality. Appreciate you & subscribing. A fellow student brought you up in class as a channel to watch👀
Mmm...thunder and petrichor. 😎
Telling possibly suicidal people to embrace the sea doesn't exactly seem like the best of ideas ...   I mean ... i can probably count myself lucky. I mean, i am celibate, and i'd be lying if i said it was voluntarily, because i would definitly like that to change (but i can't really make up a snappy abbreveation for that) - or at least would have liked that, once - but at least i, for some reason, managed to entirely dodge the whole misogyny-bullet (quite the opposite, actually, because i tend to get along better with more women then men) and exclusively hate myself. That's something, right ?
The inherent eroticism of the sea... count me in!
Wooooweowowoeoeooeoeoewowowow! You’re right. There actually is eroticism in a rainstorm. I’m like blown away by this realization. Honestly. Thanks, I never knew what I was feeling until I watched this video.
3800 incels watched this...
This is my new favorite channel  ❤
16:06 I can't be the only who thinks cleft chins look weird.
Oh, thanks youtube recommended, I honestly didn't know I needed this right now apparently
Fuck I think I just realized I'm transphobic. I liked you and your channel until the transgender thing. Sorry.
The manosphere exists because rock and roll is dead
geez I got excited with the heat from the asfalt
Wow. I'm speechless. You are sympathetic and honest. Well done!
Well, I've never felt precisely *good* about living in a pit of sexless self-loathing, but at least I don't make a goddamn cult out of it!
10:10 wtf usually women are the more attractive ones in majority of couples, what are those idiots are talking about.
Oh man... 20:50 is gold
I can kind of agree on the hypergamy point for incels, it just isn't as drastic as they make it sound. Most girls do want someone who can provide and protect them but they are not sprinting towards the nearest sports stadiums and top tier colleges to find men who can protect them and shower them with money. I'm a military veteran, I compete in Brazilian jiu jitsu, I do muay thai, i'm a college grad with an associates in criminal justice and currently working on a bachelors in political science and history, I might get another bachelors in economics and philosophy but I know I want to get my masters in either social psychology or organizational psychology.    Anyways, I have actually dated women who have told me for the reasons I have listed above that they felt inferior, like I was too good for them, always on the move and various other things. Now women who I have met through one of those many activities and social dynamics are actually more attracted to me because within the realm of college, veterans, Brazilian jiu jitsu players and thai boxers I am a step above some of those guys, well in Brazilian jiu jitsu and muay thai I get my ass kicked plenty lol. But if I were to approach a woman that works three jobs or has several kids she might she feel inferior to me in those regards but another guy with many kids or works 3 jobs she will be more attracted too because he is top tier in their social group. And I was painfully single for a long time because I believe women have their incel social dynamic, its just male incels want a woman that is turned on by baking and dirty talk during sex is all about how they need to clean or some bs while women cling to a man or men who listen to their emotional bs while going through or around hoards of men who want to bone. If you notice with women like that sex is a hot button issue.  The last girl I dated broke everything off but she was so emotionally attached to me and would complain about not being able to find a nice guy like I was chopped liver and any time another girl found me romantically interesting and wanted more than to just shower me with her emotional bs that this girl would get so upset, and I can see it in her eyes when ever she met girls I was dating that she felt like she was being cheated on or something. And when her own friends showed interest she'd scared them off even though she was the one who wanted to break everything off. I had to remove her from my life Because as Alana said when it comes to people who cannot find dating partners, it is because they see their preferred gender in very few dimensions vs recognizing them as dynamic social human beings like many incels and the last girl I dated. And I'm back on the dating scene and i'm successful like a normal person again!
It really is creepy the hop, skip and jump from "lonely nerd" to "hate-filled misogynistic recluse" that makes an incel. I have traveled a similar road to the one Natalie has traveled. I spent a very, very low 4ish months visiting trans threads on 4chan in my early 20s. It was was like... going down to the sewers to do an anthropological study on the mutant mole people. After a while you notice you're not just observing but interacting in a remote, distant way. Then you catch yourself using their language and seeing the world the way they see the world. You should know you're not "one of them" but time and pressure makes you uncertain.  It almost put me off transition. It encouraged the absolute worst of my dysmorphic feelings. I had alt romance profiles elsewhere where I was buried in messages like Natalie's Tinder responses. I almost believed life was either-or for trans women.  It really is scary how easy these worldviews are to grow inside a fertile, doubt-filled mind.
Thank you dark mother
Do you do all the voices yourself? If so, they're excellent.
I have seen this video so many times. One of my fav video to rewatch.
I just want to know where this cock carousel is located. This world incels live in sounds awesome for women. (I'm joking, I promise!)
Irony  one of the most viewed video about incel is made buy a women that is making fun of them.
I am an incel who is not really an incel. Schrodinger's Incel. 28 years old, never kissed, never had a girlfriend, never had sex, which is the textbook definition of incel. But without the misogyny, the skull obsession and all the other nasty bits. I do not blame society, or my unnaturally horrible appearance (my face is average-looking, actually. And my body is pretty damn hot), or some secret feminist agenda or whatever. I am just very depressed, socially-awkward, introverted and with a low enough self-esteem to border on - and sometimes cross the line into - self-hatred. No one to blame but me.  To make matters worse, I have found out recently that I am asexual and bordering on aromantic. It is nearly impossible for me to fall in love: it happened only 3 times so far. Each failure lowered whatever self-esteem I had left and now I cannot even keep a conversation on Tinder without freaking out over all of the 14 million ways it could go wrong and intentionally trying to be as uninteresting as possible to convince the girl to stop talking to me so I can uninstall the app from my phone without being rude.  Most of the time, I just feel hopeless and too tired to look for someone and go through all the steps of becoming acquainted, going on dates and so on. And even if I somehow manage to grow close enough to a woman for her to consider a relationship with me, how does a guy nearly in his 30s explain that he is an incel without being associated to the incels discussed in this video? My best friend tells me there is no way I could be mistaken for one of those guys, but she had not even heard about incels until I told her, so what if she is wrong?  And why did I write this fucking huge essay here? I am not sure. Anyway, I love your channel. I never knew something this professional was available on YouTube. Usually, I can barely watch a 15 minute video without closing the tab and searching for new recipes to try in my kitchen or something equally random, but you make a 35 minute video go by as easily as a 10 minute episode of Steven Universe. This is easily my favorite channel on YouTube. <3
Alright I fucking lost it at Chadpreet.
Volcel if you wouldn’t was ducking hilarious and will only be appreciated by a select few
Thank god I was, mostly, raised by my mum and sister.  These gents need hobbies, passions—they clear have it the energy and passion in them—they need to direct this energy, that becomes overwhelmingly negative, towards something positive.  Good run down. I was not too aware of this cultural subgroup. What a time to be alive, aye?
this is my first video i watched of yours ... i might have to subscriber and binge lmao
The Black Pill is real.
Tfw contrapoints has a better jawline and chin than you. Fucking reeEeEEEEEEEE
These guys are the supposedly one of the internet's oldest filter bubbles, a vortex that any curious passer-by could still visit today to get an impression on how any fairly recent filter-bubbled community might look like 20 years on. It's sad.
Its sad to see this problem and know that its all in their head, since i don't have the most chiseled face and body, so to say, and i get laid a couple of times a year. Their personality really IS the problem.   And also because they go for Barbie most likely, and Barbie is obviously as obsessed about looks as them selves, so ofc she will only pick Ken, its what she does ffs..
MGTOW :  What they think it stands for : Men Going Their Own Way  What it actually stands for : Men Getting Triggered Over Women
Okay, that was epic!
People are strange when you're a stranger Faces look ugly when you're alone Women seem wicked when you're unwanted Streets are uneven when you're down. I'm not trying to anger trans people but I find it sad that trans people want so badly to be "seen" as the opposite sex. Have pride in being trans, say "i am not man and I am not woman, I am trans" you will never be satisfied with yourself as a man or a woman, your only chance at physical and mental self love is to identify as exclusively trans. It's a gender in itself. Its unique and interesting and being unique and interesting is a good thing. I just wish trans people would genuinely accept themselves as what they are just like everyone else has to do. You arent a biological woman or man, you are what you are and you cant expect to be "seen" as normal and that's a GOOD THING!!
My mum walked in as you said ‘I will let you smash my pussy’ and so I’ve spent the past few minutes explaining that this isn’t porn
This was very educational and well put together. I am surprised I have not heard of this channel sooner.
I like the video but I don't fully understand. I think red pill is real and also hypergamy maybe it's a bias idk. So my relations are at 2 of 13 likeable girl and then ugly than me. ( And this 2 are in young age) . And because I am at least a 6 or less you are smoking hot , maybe for a guy like 8 you are a strange creature and no more idk. The thing is like envy for rich people but becoming rich is unreachable for most people and if u born ugly, like 80% of girl are reject you. So the answer is mgtow or hate. Less interest for you by woman is a crucified. Acceptance? Make money and go surgery? Fuck ugly piggy? Idk srsly I am trying to understand what to do. ( Maybe ill go with poor migrant girl beautiful) btw love you.
This makes me physically sick
Incels are basically self brainwashed
Really nice video tbh. Very insightful about a world I didn’t really knew much about. Damn. I like your brutal honesty.
It’s all fun and games and we like to joke in here, but statistics show a pretty messed up picture of reality. It kinda makes you wonder:  https://afsp.org/about-suicide/suicide-statistics/
You missed that step 5 actually IS anal with some incels suggesting that if they cant get women they should just fuck eachother
Can we also seriously add on the fact that, believe it or not, some people think androgyny is sexy. I am one of those people. If you’re on the more feminine side of the scale, whether male or female, I’m likely sexually attracted to you. There’s something hot about having a mix of both. If that makes sense...? I like ladies with short hair and flatter chests. I like men that can do makeup better than me (bad example, that’s a low bar) and crossdress. I’ve always felt more like a guy even though I know I’m not trans. I was born female but I just feel more like a guy. Or like I don’t fit in with feminine people. Maybe that’s all my own psychology, and thus pointless to the discussion. But the point is, and I know absolutely no incel will read and believe this, sexual attraction isn’t cookie cutter. Different ladies and gentlemen like different features. Not all women want huge muscles, washboard abs, height, and mass. Not all guys are obsessed with giant tits. It’s about actually putting effort into finding someone that doesn’t just want to hit it and quit it (unless that’s the goal, obviously).
You are my new hero
if i may,  i am 37 and practically celibate, i dont blame woman, i dont blame society or anyone else, i just came to terms with it , because rejection was encreasicly unconfortable to process.  i am sure mistake is in me, but i never found a key what to change  and probably never will, since  after being alone for my entire life, i can hardly imagine someone letting in or spening that much time with one person. but i remeber stumbling upon this in the height on my not getting any relationships depression and even then i knew this is wrong.
Not an incel, hell I didn't even know about them until now, and I'm gay. But my parents fucked me up good. I just don't date or persue relationships because I don't react to things normally. Human contact makes me uncomfortable and compliments make me feel guilty. Someday, when I have proper insurance I plan on going to therapy.
LORD. There needs to be a Grindr for straight people, they really gotta bang out these issues.
Shit, I call people hon..     TIME FOR A LOT OF AWKWARD APOLOGISING
"Hi Stacy, it's Tracy" !!!!!!!!!!
1:13 plot twist
This what people waste their time with?
I hope this isn't too  late, please don't cut your dick off. just fuck men and women as a chick with a dick. Who would want to bang a fake vag anyway
Your friend Lindsay Ellis brought me here, and I've loved every minute of it. Thank you
Fuck sake. A roastie is British English for roast potato. Knowing the other meaning has now ruined Sunday lunch for me.
can I f you woman, cause it will make situation easy. love - but for what?
You're a genius!
That intro is some creepy shit, but when Olly says it all I can think about is how hot it is...
You have a really good choice of background music!!!
Man that point where she says she won't debate incels because they're not using their ideas and arguments as rational people do, but as razorblades to abuse themselves, is such a deep insight
Holy shit, you actually made thunderstorm sound really hot.
Jordan Peterson really helped me, my sister showed his stuff to me actually!
Can I buy the soundtrack to this video? It's so fantastic
I literally studied psychiatry but until now no one has been able to explain catastrophizing in a way that I could wrap my head around well enough to realize that its the biggest and most deeply ingrained cognitive distortion my mentally ill brain has been using to wreck my life for a decade now. I always wondered why incels seemed so just like me minus my unironic profeminism. I too have never been laid and sometimes it feels like I deserve it that way. I never blamed women for it but I also frequently felt like I was cursed with some uncommon knowledge or insight into how society works. I'm going to keep working on myself and I hope you keep up your good work too.
anyone else jerk of to her video? inceldom is a Marxist response to sexual capitalism.
They tend to have a lack of knowledge about woman anatomy.
I wouldn't even have guessed you were trans until you mentioned it, wow
Absolute genius ! But , how did you avoid using the term phrenology ?
1:26
Olly giving me an orgasm at the beginning of the video 😅
I'm so glad I'm gay, everyone just wants to have sex all the time
This is so insightful on so many psychological levels, not just in terms of being an incel or trans but being a self-loathing person in general. "digital self-harm" is so on point. I went thru this too and it was extremely difficult to stop to the point where I had to not only get a lot of therapy but do active "simple" things that you mentioned--like blocking websites--which was so helpful and actually did work to help me break that toxic, self-harming habit.
I’d never heard of you until a few moments ago and you are too unclockable! I didn’t know until you said something
Jfc I had no idea it was this complex and intricate.
Noone owes anybody sex. You're either worthy of being fucked or not. Improve yourself or stop crying about it. Stop expecting people to lower their dating standards just because you're a virgin.
Umm... I'm a shit person... It has nothing to do with bone structure... I'm alone because I'm unstable. I'm no incel; I'm a voluntary celebate. I chose to lead a shit life. That's the bed I made and Imma' lie in it.
-Southern Accent- Were I to bash in a chad's skole, he would have the same three dimples as old Becky.
what is the song starting from 1:24
22:21 ContraPoints ASMR when?
I loved your video! I've worked with a lot of incels (including the 'curry' type, newly arrived immigrants from Muslim countries, not working in good jobs like IT or medicine, but in warehouses, fast foods etc.) and as a good-looking spinster (or Thornback?) it is really, really difficult. They often claim I'm 'saving myself' for a rich man, but I get a lot of 'indecent proposals' from rich men (married etc.) and I know none of them would divorce their wife to marry me. Most incels could easily solve their 'dating' problem by being nicer human beings, more respectful of women... who happen to be human beings as well, not just boobs and buttocks and holes... A tip from a married guy I met, a Don Juan: 'The first step is to make a woman laugh about you, so that she stops having this fear at the back of her mind that you're a potential rapist or caveman'. So no chest drumming, try a GSOH instead!
Wait trans women worry about the big head thing? That’s an unfortunate comfort to me. I hate my pinhead
Holy shit... This is the best video on youtube. Opened my eyes on multiple thing. Thank you.
So do incels call emails emoids?
Shit someone help me I think I’m in love with Natalie now
Omg I need to wait until the end of the video to comment I leave too much irrelevant shit. This was SO well done!!! Idk like everything about this was just so perfect like you led us through that mind process So So Well. Like the fact that you added in the memes to begin with like already felt kind of like..oh that’s familiar.. and then as SOON as that thought comes up in our heads, you not only correctly identify it and explain it to us (lmfao I always feel so emotionally unintelligent when you lay it out, like “Ohhhh🤭”😂), but then elaborate on how it relates to your personal struggles in such a real, legitimate way.  Like omg even seeing the thought bubbles made it feel more genuine because you just Know like you were going through in editing like debating whether you should keep certain things in, and the fact that you did, it’s just like, idk it’s like a trust thing or something, like I really feel like if ANYTHING was ever going to reach these boys and get them to hear you, like this video was just like the perfect thing, like literally lmao. You did such a good job of expressing yourself 😭😭😂 (Also doesn’t hurt that it was hilarious as usual too, tbh I continuously died at the dramatic readings, like the Emphasis put on certain words just kept getting to me)
Your laugh at having to say “bread scientist” out loud made my life
The chad circumference
This is my first time hearing this from a trans person.  I appreciate it.
Sometimes, when mind-reading a #RockSpider, I feel like an #InCel!
I once partook in the incel subreddit before it was taken down. I myself struggle desperately with women and thought that it would just be a nice place to go to vent. I was wrong. I did not fit in there. I did not blame women for their lack of interest in me the way everyone else did, and rather than actually vent meaningful issues they would just sum it all up with "stacy wants chad," and scream whatever insults necessary in a bid to absolve themselves of all responsibility. I found that I'm the exact opposite of that crowd, I turn all my hate and blame inward for my lack of dating success. I know it's not healthy, but it's certainly better and more reasonable than blaming everyone else.
You look and sound so beautiful <3
One of the best youtube channels. Keep it up!
I have a feeling that the phrase "go fuck yourself" would not be an insult to incels because that's what they are going to be doing anyway.
It seems like a lot of incels are British.
10:10 There is actually a lot data for this though. The Pareto Principle does affect the dating world where 80% of men are competing for 20% of women, and vice-versa. I'll find a source when I sober up. And if I still give a fuck then.
9:15 Hilariously, every camp within the manosphere *hates* each other.
I love you. You’re brilliant. I don’t know if you will read this, but if you do, I will feel like I achieved something.
It's like these folks are miserable, yet they sustain themselves by making other people miserable.  Like a cancer that eats itself in order to sustain itself.
I thought red pill just means a change in political beliefs
"Never heard a song before.", That still makes me crack up every time I come back to this video 😂😂😂
I’ve been on a relationship for 6 years now and have feminists friends who are some of the most intelligent and nice people I know, so I’m pretty much the opposite of an incel. And my god I hate their philosophy as much as they can  hate women . However, I came to your channel because eyepatch wolf explicitly said that your opinions on this topic  where very logical and not hate  fueled so that’s what I came ; I’m not looking to jump on a hate train even if a I don’t think highly of incels .  So thank you for this amazing video and I think it deserves the praise ! BTW you look beatiful, I was surprised about the whole transgender thing . For me it doesn’t show
rip uggocel
Sheesh...
FEEEMMOOOIIDDDDSSS
Is that why effeminate people call me hon?  I am pretty much your dower feminist character. Thanks for that... Now I'll always wonder...
Thanks for the crash course, Contra. I now have an acceptable understanding of these modern catastrophizing death cults. And how dare you make me laugh and smile whilst teaching me about such dark subject matter.   About "Digital Self-Harm" and intentionally seeking abusive comments that specifically target your own vulnerabilities, I think we might find it fascinating, addictive, and maybe even find pleasure in hearing that stuff, because we might think of it as finally hearing the awful truth that people can't say on a daily basis. In a real-life casual social situation, we might get angry or feel weak, but since it's from the comfort of our own home, we are more easily able to face how awful those people are. And seeing people for what they are can be a kind of pleasurable experience.
bitch i love you
Zero empathy.Are women incapable?
If I’m being honest I had no clue you were trans until you mentioned it... none.
“Grab them by their black ops t shirts” 🤣
HOLY SHIT this is so hard to watch People like these actually exist.
This negates a lot of the truth of why these people end up on those forums to begin with.  It's not just tinder outcome.  It starts before that point in time, with a great many factors beyond simple rejection.   Insinuating their narrative is incorrect without any counter evidence is irresponsible at best. The only point regarding their complaints you even attempted to recognize with empathy is the inbox comparison between men and women.   I've never spoken about pictures or seeing a woman's panties, asked for anything remotely inappropriate, attempt to engage in polite conversation.  I haven't had a date in over a year.  You're presuming I must be one of those guys who sends dick pics or initiates the conversation with hey there.    I'm not trying to say my issue is everyones issue.  I don't subscribe to the incel forums or have the desire to collectively feel sorry for myself in this situation.  I do recognize that there is a situation.  It absolutely exists.  There is a real underlying issue going on in society that is beyond just a bunch of mopey men without enough courage to get a real hobby.   You minimized a serious issue, found the most negative subset of individuals and lumped everyone together into the same cart.   There are a lot of healthy outlets for people struggling, people collectively trying to work on a positive outcome, not become a mass murderer.  It's sad that you don't spend a moment of your diatribe  recognizing those groups.   Whatever your personal experience is, doesn't make it more informed because you've had the opportunity to see life from essentially three sides to some degree.  Your experience is still your experience.  It's individual.  It's not a basis for negating an entirely collective of people that see things differently than yourself.   I do agree that it would be better for those people to get off of the forums that promote negativity as the only solution.  I don't agree that there isn't a real problem that needs to be addressed beyond it's only their fault, go fix it.  Our society is bending over backwards to resolve issues women face.  Shelters, clinics, advocacy groups, political groups.  You name it, women get promoted in professional men's sports.  The argument isn't that women don't need those groups, because people recognize there is an actual problem.  Don't men deserve some level of advocacy regarding their issues?    To summarize, the fault of these forums is entirely the individuals who reside their.  They should man up, go just be confident, not feel sorry for themselves and it'll just fix everything.   There isn't a changing mindset in society that really should be addressed, that isn't impacting everyone of all sexual orientation?   If women were doing this, there would be a panel in congress wanting to find out what needs to be done.  Mens suicide rates are skyrocketing.  Not just incels.  Male veterans, once married men. (men who got laid btw)  There is an epidemic going on well beyond what you're willing to recognize because your bubble life experience tells you so?    I could go on, but being you spent 35 minutes lecturing a very miopic world view without really addressing the actual cause instead of effect, I'll presume you won't give this much attention.
I hope that one day Olly decides to narrate audio books because I would buy all of them!
<3
Subbed. That was a masterful analysis. Thank you.
Hbomberguy brought me here.
Is this trap trying to make me gay? Maybe it was just the lighting.. beauty is projected outward from within not the other way around you do you bro... I have chosen to go my own way for a few reasons and in a world with tinder and STDs getting passed around like trading cards fear has a good bit to do with it if the conditions are rite I might not always be mgtow..
Me: *watches until the very end* Me: oh nature, you so sexy...
Girl, you are doing the lords work. Your videos are so important, please don’t stop. Also your whole aesthetic in this video is amazing.
first, I hate fucking losers but it is normal for such communities to arise in a system that glorifies such a primitive pleasure as fuck. it must be a shame not to get a product that is advertised so much. we are in the ultra modern world who dedicated his life to entering a bacterium hole or waiting for someone to penetrate her hole.    also,  there's a truth called pair bond. nevertheless dozens of women talk about love with their deformed cunt.   the other thing I hate is the idiots who try to interpret life with their bad experience. the world is a two-minute observation that knows how to see.  and a bitter truth:   men who was able to be smarter than a monkey knows; women(90%100) are dogs of concepts like money, power, status or sexy men(is that Chad?)  hey idiot incels, you'il either be a pussy whipped or you'il have any power and you can fill up cumbuckets every day.  what kind of literature do you have for those two basic sentences..  lol. if I had mastered fucking english, I could have made better sentences.  and yes, those beautiful women are gone.  all the society are seed, wet pussy and blood. these have been going on for millions of years. then why are we evolved?  the simplicity of humanity makes me nauseous. it saddens me that a woman's existence is just sex. I'm not saying that, it turns out that being a free  woman requires that...  a philosopher says: we did not enter this sea because it was shallow, not because it was dirty.   anyway. no moron, i am not asexual or homosexual.   I'm just going to die of longing for high consciousness women. my interest in women is not just from their holes.  again anyway, sorry about the bad English.  have a factual days, but be careful not to be alone.  adding::  this fag knows how to play the moronic community. incels can be moron, psychotic or desperate. but there's a lot they're right about. there's a reality. even a stoped clock shows the truth twice in a day.    just think. it's not hard.
I knew you were a man by the language you use and the predisposition to be factual. The adam's apple confirmed it.
I actually love your channel. Not only are you hilarious, your videos are so thorough & it’s clear you put a lot of efforts into your videos. It’s really cool.
I've always said, terrorism begins at home. After watching this segment, I stand by my theory.
I love you
Nearly 4 thousand incels down-voted this video.  I'm absolutely certain it will be a whole lot more as this video becomes more popular. Incels.... there are so many reasons why women won't touch your special place.  But the primary reason is that you're most likely a scumbag.  Just thought you should know.
It's almost like a person has to drop out of society to find sanity and purpose anymore.   Labels are like theoretical particles in a particle accelerator.  Their existence is an abstraction that can only be determined by their interactions with other outside systems.
If you want to understand incels, watch Taxi Driver
This commentary was misinformed and outright incorrect.  The incel issue stems from society valuing women more than men and women having far too much unearned privilege .  As well as incel guys having issues with complex trauma and attachment issues.
are men.......ok?
is that philsofie tube i heard
I should not have watched this video at the same time as reading Goethe’s Werther…
Problem is society is creating incels and has no intention to stop the process.
lolled hard !! GJ !
OMG I have that same octopus ring LOL
Did you say a lonely bisexual? Meaning they couldn't get sex with either guys or girls. How unattractive would someone have to be to be a virgin incel bisexual?
How dare you give me phrenology ASMR
I am a short fat dark skin asian nerd with a short dick and bad attitude, yet i can get both girls and guys. Especially girls, people dont care about looks but how you make them feel
this guy puts on women's dresses, makeup, and presumably takes female sex hormones and has mutilated his genitals. yet dares to lecture men about questioning of all things, the relationship dynamics in this society.  they've already got you, don't you realize this?
Your forgot the trannycel or transbiancel. I am transgender and an incel. People don’t know I’m trans and I present myself as male.This only makes me even more misogynistic because I desire to fuck women and also be one. My parents were not excepting of my transgender lifestyle when I came out to them back on 2015. So I crawled back into the closet (which again made me even more misogynistic and hateful) I’m 21 yrs old and currently going to college to become a nurse. What should I do? My biggest fear is that I will never find love and be disgusted with my body. Should I go ahead and transition anyways? I just feel so hopeless
From what I gathered there's more than just red & black pills. There's blue and purple. The "pills" aren't actually so much to do with Women as they are states of awareness that Men are in; in their relation to women.   Many Women had become cognizant in their relation to Men (it wasnt flattering), it only stands to reason that many Men would have become cognizant in their relation to Women.
This is what happens when you launch all these stupid ass campaigns against bullying, the incels have no natural predators now and their shit is getting out of hand. There are no more bullies to keep their cringy asses in check. Think about it. This is the reason these fuckers would get bullied in the first place! Bullying is Humanity's natural instinct for attacking those within the herd that threaten it with their anti-social or otherwise toxic and destabilizing bullshit. Bullying is nothing more than our natural instinct to remove runts and sociopaths.
When you have casual sex and are still an innie (and always have been) 🤷‍♀️🤦‍♀️
This was well done.
Have you not found that you meet someone who is "meh, they're ok" but the more you get to know them, the more attractive they really are? I have been looked over because I wasn't thin enough, pretty enough, had a nicer car, higher income. Well, you get it. It truly is a sad way to be. I have been on dates and the conversation goes to sex in 10 minutes flat. Maybe you might want to experience my charming, wit and quirkiness? Sometimes it felt like I was on a job interview. Sort of like auditioning for a role or for a vocalist. If you don't have thick skin, you'd better get some.   Perhaps giving of yourself by volunteering for all sort of organizations and get your mind off what you don't have. Amazing what can be achieved in serving others. You know what else you might find? People who are not into social media and its false idolatry. These men and women have much more substance to them and appreciate the person YOU are in your heart, mind and soul. That is WAY more attractive than plastic looking people. I see many men commenting about Kate McKinnon and how attractive she is to them. Is she a great beauty? No, but she can nail Rudy Giuliani. No, not that way! Jeff Sessions? Yep. A sultry female? Yep. So truly the answer is yes, she is a great beauty as you are seeing her essence, funny, quirky and vavoom. I shall end with this.  Celibacy keeps you STD free. Get put of your anger and hate. This world is a mess. Be part of the solution and give of your self. You'll wonder why you've wasted so much of your time. Life really is too short and the next few minutes aren't promised to any of us. The next sandwich you eat, think of the miracles it takes to get every single ingredient from all over the world from seed to your plate. Be grateful. We all aren't blessed enough to have even one piece of bread & a sip of water!!
My phone keeps switching back and forth between a video about Incels, and a documentary about Edith Wharton's self-designed mansion called "The Mount", why I don't know!
This is really. really. good. Dudes need to hear this shit.Like, dudes that listen to Joe Rogan and Jordan Peterson. Anyone who's ever listened to Owen Benjamin. Masochistic epistemology is a brilliant way of describing the way we attribute truth by intentionally exposing ourselves to harm, thinking it represents an absolute truth.
Im trans.. i had tinder and a super funny profile (not to brag but it was amazing) and got nothing... but not i have a boyfriend and lifes awesome.. so.. dont use tinder kids..  Edit: my bf is into anime and videogames (sorry babe... love you) but i love it coz he takes an interest in my stuff and is super passionate about his and lets me learn about it and get interested too..
Do an asmr video please
Hey I enjoy talking about who won the game last night why you gotta attack my IQ 😯
5:31 cool outfit please use it more
Well I almost spit out my tea three times, so I guess I'd better subscribe.
why do nazi cunts ignore how gold digging whores are half that problem trump is married and has kids
should focus on their female alternative gold digging nazi whores
Yeah I don’t have much sympathy for incels either but what most people forget is that we’re looking at a mentally ill population of men dealing with severe depression
interesting vid one of the things I have been thinking of for a few years now is how the internet is changing society and the emergent of incel is one good or bad as some see it  how people group together by there grips in life  misery loves company humans are naturally lazy at times
tbh im not an ass, im kind, i dont think i deserve anything, but the gay community dont look at you if your slightly unatteactive
are there gay incels coz im probably a gay hopecel tbh
Hi ! Quick question, I'm doing research on trans men and body image and I was wondering if there is a trans man-version of 'hon'? Thanks
Oh no, a man that bakes Hang on, aren't most of the famous chefs... Men?
And they're not going to get out of that rut by talking like that
Well technically, we are all gonna die. So in the long run, the jump from step 1 to 7 is not only not absurd, but inevitable.      I know I just missed the point by a few lightyears but I couldn't resist :)
Manocels exist because rock and roll is dead
Who gives a shit. This is all pointless. We are all born to die just the same. Everything you love, everyone you love means nothing. If the universe has no meaning, why would you think your pathetic life does?
Eh. Not defending the incel community, but you are misrepresenting what they actually are saying, and you are making a lot of arguments based on assumptions.  1. Not a great start in your completely unbiased lecture about incels to immediately associate them with mass shooters.   2. They don't claim that one skull shape is superior to another. They claim that women are more attracted to one skull shape over another, which is demonstrably true.   3. MGTOW is not part of the incel movement. They are two very different things. Most MGTOW are able to get laid or get a relationship. They just don't because they feel that the risks far outweigh the rewards and will not enter a relationship until the system changes.   4. Statistically, almost all women will have children while only half of men will ever have children.  This statistical fact lends a lot of credibility to the "80/20" rule.  5. Jordan Peterson is not a sexist old man. The fact that you said that leads me to believe that you either do not understand what the word "sexist" means, or you are making that agreement based on what you've heard about Jordan Peterson from people who don't know anything about him.  6. Yeah, most trannies will never look like a woman, and the ones that do, do porn. That being said, I've seen plenty of real women with some big ass heads. Well either that or their heads were normal size but their bodies were tiny.   7. I've stopped watching the video.  Seems like it just keeps repeating talking points I've heard a hundred times.
all this video taught me was that i want to fuck the ocean.
I wonder if the Incels chose the nickname "Tyrone" after black YouTuber Tyrone Magnus.  For those unaware of him, Tyrone Magnus at one point created a lot of content giving dating advice to young men and talked a lot about his sexual experiences. A YouTube dwelling incel would no doubt have come across his channel.
I live for "it must needs be remarked", and "let's watch an educational video now."
I like incels because they are *R E A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A L L Y* nice
You’re my favorite YouTuber!
So if say (gods forfend) an incel DOES somehow manage to find a girlfriend and make the sexy times, does their skull magically change into a chadskull? It's like a Pokemon evolution! "Congratulations! Your incskull evolved into a chadskull!" Just whatever you do, DON'T PRESS B!
I mean, I've seen uglier trans man to female transitions. you're actually quite beautiful. Totally a CHAD lol.
3:41 I think you're mischaracterizing von Braun as not an alpha. After all, he somehow convinced people to let him build the biggest dick ever, and then slap the moon with it.
lol the Chadpreets
Pink Pill lol
carbon form ....
You make a lot of excellent points, but you're wrong about one thing:  Rock 'n roll is very much alive!  1) The Satelliters 2) Radio Moscow 3) Hinds 4) Sister Sparrow 5) Caffeine Carl  Seriously, check out those bands! They're awesome!
Need help? Visit us at drsusanblockcom
Wow, what a misogyne ideology, it took me scared, it is incredible how this “incels” are so far from the reality, USA  society have to end.
The concept of hypergamy is interesting. I think both men and women try to mate with the most attractive partner possible. Why would only women do that? There is an evolutionary advantage for a man to try to have children with the most attractive woman he can find. It seems like incels start by blaming women and then build their theories from that one position.
Lotta truth 9:19
Wholly Crap! I'm an incessant "Catastrophizer"!  I'm celebate... because I work too much! That's worse than being an "incel".
this  is the first video of yours i watched. Insta-subbed!
Fuck, I fucking loved this video, gonna check it out the other ones. I've never tought of incels as self loathing people seeking someone to confirm how much of a failure they think they are. Is like a road leading to downhill . Ive always though that those guys lacked somehow social skills, and never got to really know women other than those shitty stereotyped barbies and stacys, and putting together their ignorance about women and the fact that they can't get one, they choose hate it in general.   But sorry, as a girl I can't simpathyse with them. They're sick by themselves, and they like spread their sickness to other vulnerable minded boys with pseudo scientific shit and a twisted view of the world making probably the life of most people there more miserable each day. Perfectly fine people . For God's sake they cheer mass murderers, they call those disturbed guys heroes, people killing innocent people. All of those communities, should be shut down, disbanded for good. No good comes out of it. Sick peopke are only getting sicker, and worse, they're harming other people, innocent people .
So if you do get laid, do you get kicked out of the club?
What the fuck is with the black marks & beeps?? So childish. lol
Steps to not be a loser: 1. Dress up and try to look presentable 2. If that doesn't work, compensate by developing a useful skill (ex. Comedy, intelligence, hard work) 3. Have some self confidence 4. Seriously, stop being so insecure you little bitch
This was excellent.
there are viruses-of-the-mind, pathogens in language, impurity encoded in words...
"Death cult" is a really good way of putting it
Wow.  You've covered some very dark and and disturbing stuff here, and although I'm not going to say I'm happy now, I've definitely learned a few valuable (if frightening) insights.    Thank you and keep up the good work.
This is still one of the worst videos a leftist has made, nothing but strawman and ad hom against incels, most incels are not bad people. Most of what they say about women wanting chads is true. Incels are black pilled not red pilled. It is easier to strawman your perceived beliefs of incels than to actuallytry to refute actual points. Btw further ostracizing will not help. You dumb tranny.
My husband is a 6ft., 160 lbs. computer programmer who games and has acne and works at Walgreens. We're having out first child in August. How do they reconcile this belief with couples like us?
To any TTTT people here - yes, there are born females with giant heads. I have a 23" skull... which is a waist size I know. What can I say, I just have a big brain. ;)
this is the best video on youtube
This is the first of your videos I've watched. I did not realize you were trans until you said it. The only hint someone that doesn't know you gets is your voice, and I just thought it was an accent I didn't recognize
Jaysus she’s so smart
Can you guys stop using cyrillic letters to represent latin letters? I have no idea what Ц or Ш are suppose to mean in english, and it ends up sounding ghtshmlkrgf...  On the astronouts, look what Yuriy Gagarin sad about women in aviation and cosmonautics.
Great video. I learn a lot.
The part where the guy was super insecure about how he was baking bread blew my mind.  I am proud of showing the stuff I bake.  It never occurred to me that someone might feel "ashamed" of their love of baking.  Wtf is wrong with people?  Not to say that that's the most disagreeable thing I saw in that video, just the one that surprised me the most.  I guess some people are really creative with their insecurities?
17:52 I fuggin Died!!! lmfaoa;laksdfaksjfakj
I respect your efforts, but I don't like you.
The pain of being from Baltimore and not being able to say "hon" anymore 😟 because now it is being used for something awful
In all your videos I see an aequivalent to what the bible refers to as evangelium: freeing people from their restraining doubts and showing a path to liberty and understanding. Bravo!
*This chick identifies as Oceansexual*
This is your magnum opus, Natalie.
This video is a genuine masterpiece
Just found your channel through vice. You're fantastic! Really. Smart, pretty and funny.
Incels are just weird man
volcel if you wouldn't lmao
I find it funny that trans men get plenty of girls (and are often very good looking guys in general) yet have the most feminine skulls imaginable because they were literally born female
You are gorgeous ❤️💞❤️💞
Just binged a bunch of your videos and I love you soo much! Thank you for your perspective and knowledge! It helps me navigate the clusterfuck the internet and social media have become in the last 5 years! Also I love the color schemes and aspect of theater you bring to your videos! ❤💛💚💙💜💖
lol I think I'm just a half-chad then, because my chin and eyebrows looks masculine but my hands are kinda feminine... my god this is so stupid it's funny!
By definition, I am an incel. I have not been the most successful with women, although I neither blame them for it anymore, nor do I consider myself ugly; I think I'm fairly average looking. I am also not exactly the most progressive person either, so I was expecting this video to be a hit piece. Rather, you made a lot of points that really enlightened me about my own situation, so thank you for that
I appreciate this so much. Sometimes I go down the rabbit hole of looking into topics like incels, and I even watched some of Roosh's videos just to see how terrible they were. I go into it prepared to laugh at it, but when I see the amount of people who agree with him, when I see that amount of hate, sometimes it feels absolutely crushing. Watching this video felt like therapy.
I am convinced that "Thank you, skull-people, for showing me the way" is a sentence cut from a cheap fantasy novel somewhere.
2:30  Isnt understanding them the beginnimgs of sympathy/empathy?
Breadcell
It's just an expression of depression... Probably because depression amongst men is ignored or gaslit by the culture at large. It doesn't take long for sadness to turn to rage.
the culture that incels build is far funnier and more interesting than any group online has built for years.
Great vid.   I guess incelism is sort of a religion because they have this build-in mechanism to keep people hooked. "You can never meet anyone" - what a load of bullshit unless you decide it's so and deliberately prevent yourself. I'm quite unattractive by mainstream standards, my skull looks stupid, I have bad skin, and I've always been at least bit of an arsehole. (Strong chin and above average level of interest in world, tho.) I don't meet people at clubs. Never had any problem hooking up or being in relationships.
I live with someone who is CONVINCED ENTIRELY that hypergamy is something that all women have. That they will all try to date the top 10% of guys and will always “date up”.  He recently went on a date with a lovely gal who volunteers, helps her family, and recently just came out of a long relationship and has had a ton of bad dates. They dated for a few weeks and he left her because he believed, “I can do better. She’s way below me and I know that I’m in that top 10% that all women want.”   I just. Can you do a video on how hypergamy and the “science” behind it is not proven? Even the papers that suggest hypergamy talk about how they cannot account for “mate selection” or that the results are not accounting for bots or fake accounts on their small samples...  (side note: I have my degree in animal behavior. Top animal behavior thing you should know... NEVER TRUST A PAPER THAT USES ANIMAL BEHAVIOR TERMS FOR HUMAN BEINGS. Why? Because you can ASK a human being why they are doing something and get exact information. We don’t have “mating rituals” or “mate selection” because we know as humans it’s so much more that just trying to mate. Like, I was drunk and I told myself nobody would love me and then an old friend showed up and I fucked him because I just wanted to forget a bad memory, is not a “measurable mating strategy”).
Natalie I'm in love with you 😍😍
Okay, I lost it at Fair Melusina Overture. Inherent eroticism of the sea indeed.
what is the name of that intro song 1:38
I wanna fuck the ocean.
Current media reports are stating upwards of 30% of US males are incel. That's a greater "unemployment" rate than the great depression. This issue is growing & is going to have widespread economic & social implications. But keep beating males with a stick, what's the worst that could happen?
Natalie: *taps skull*  Me: is this ASMR
That beginning is so difficult to watch. Cringe for days.
Does anyone know the name of the title track? The link was in the description but the vid is unavailable.
I think i fell in love with you. I love your jokes, your way of explaining, your conclusions, your lighting and your face 😍  Just the eroticism and the sea..that Easter egg i don't get 😆
This trans women would be an incel if straight
Not worse then what feminists call men
Is it a transgender
You love the sea, right???
Roast Beef! That's fucking funny. I seen one that looked like chewed-up bologna.
please please dont do stupid stuff on your face ffs woman you're amazing :) thanks for the videos i needed them more than i knew
As a virgin nerdy straight white cis male my self Incels confuse me, like:  Are women realy everything?  If that's the case why hate them?  Have you never jacked off in your life?  Don't you got anything beter to do(I personaly spend way too much time hateing myself to hate women)?  Why atribute IQ to inteligence(i have 130 and can't find shit I'm holding in my left hand)?  Why atribute IQ to human worth(beforementioned self-loathing and mensa lvl IQ)?  Why are girls not fawning over me since I have a good facial structure? I could go on.    Ps. that came out a litle humblebrag-y, but let me be clear, I am not a catch: I have litle to no charisma, I am in terible physical form(not fat, just can't run up a hill to save my life), I have latent anger issues(hence the self-loathing), and so on
oh my god, you're hilarious. proper ASMR tingles from the Chad Circumference part as well lmao Yaaz Miss ContraPoints you got yourself a new subscriber (Y)
This makes me deeply uncomfortable
Running from the truth doesn't work. It hunts you down.
Holy heck I love this. Found you from Vice's video, glad I did!
33:14 "Volcel if you wouldn't, b*es"  LMAOOO You are hilarious.  "Chad" here... I would <3
Excuse me my Stratocaster is not an outlet for my sexual frustration. It being named after a girl who turned me down has nothing to do with it...
I used to be a part of an incel-adjacent community, though it was one that had pretty strict rules against all forms of bigotry, especially misogyny. Although most on there were men, there were also a lot of women too—heck, the admin herself was a woman—which was a pretty big plus since I at the time was questioning my gender identity (I've since figured out I'm a transwoman). Anyway, despite this a lot of the core incel ideas were pretty prominent; the hopelessness, much of the terminology, the self-loathing, the idea that 20% of guys get 80% of women—all that crap.   The reason why I eventually left was because a)I realized they were making me feel worse, and b)I also realized that my problem was the opposite of theirs—they believed that their loneliness was due to them being too unattractive, whereas I'm simply not that attracted to human beings in the first place (I'm a xenosexual, btw—don't worry, no one else have heard of us either). I do still sympathize with their pain, though, and I strongly believe that they represent a growing problem our society needs to address... somehow.
I made bread please dont call me gay please dont call me gay oh god oh fuck
Dude, you have a chin that would make some incels envious. Manlier than Eliot's.
thank you skull people
Thank you for being you and doing what you do <3
i want dick :(
Fuck u
Incels have bastardized the fine pseudoscience of phrenology.
i didn't learn guitar for that reason. its just fun and i was bored.
Bro, Mickey Mouse and Winnie The Pooh! That is mad accurate.
Incels get a lot of shit and I understand it, but I can't help but feel sorry for them. Imagine the opposite sex finding you so disgusting that the thought of contact with them seems so out of reach that you deem it impossible. This belief then builds on itself until they're so deprived of interaction with women that they can't even begin to empathize with them and start to view them as objects. Their whole existence turns into a resentment of every normally functioning person around them further isolating them from examples of normal behavior. Over time their original involuntary celebacy due to something likely easy to overcome becomes impossible to overcome as their personalities mold to their environment turning them into incels where the opposite sex can never overlook their appearance because their personality is worse.  It's a mythology they've created by taking reality and driving it to it's extremes and ignoring anything that doesn't fit with the narrative. This essentially turns it into a religion which causes it to spread like such. So imagine getting sucked into a cult that turns you into a permavirgin. That's what it is.  It's sad because they're so wrong. I'm average looking at best and while I'm not "smashing poon 24/7" I have had intimate relationships with several women who at least in my opinion were very attractive. Some of them even had great personalities. Pretty sure all of them have been out of my league. What's my secret? I don't think there is one. I can say that it seems like the more I interact with other people and get comfortable interacting with strangers the more women I seem to attract. I don't know think it's a numbers thing either, I think it's just an attractive trait. Be friendly, to everyone, strangers included. That's like the most alpha shit you can do especially in a world where half of everyone stares at their shoes.
Chad and non-Chad are both seriously ugly.. One of the Chad's is an Alpha?🤔 I think I got it. Chad is actually Howard from the Big Bang.
This Incel's language reminds me Orange Clockwork dialect
Heard about this channel through Benjamin Walker's Theory of Everything podcast, so glad I checked it out. We need way more content like this.
It'd have an incredible impact if public education focused on deconstructing toxic, yet popular narratives in society. This notion that a man has to look and behave in a stereotypically 'masculine' way to be in a relationship is really deleterious to people's mental health and drives many towards extremism.
No cap I got a little hard at the beginning
12:10 OMG what a fragile ego. Bro, you can make bread and identify as a man that likes manly things without any explanation. Just be like, "yeah I enjoy baking." Which of your friends is gonna be like, "well I can't hang out with that dude, he might make me a delicious cupcake."
❤️
There’s a lot of hate in those communities, but most of it is directed towards themselves. It’s more sad than scary.
Redpill evil cis white Male here! Great quality vid but you can still smell the anti-male rhetoric. Incels were traditionally deformed or mentally unstable men who really did have a shitty hand in life. The backlash comes from society pushing a 'women are beautiful no matter what' but men need to meet a litnest test of impossible standards to be desirable. Now any frustrated male virgin is considered a incel... where this transition happened is another topic! However, the masculine bad feminine good rhetoric permeating our society and even these videos is disheartening.
I went on r/incels to write an angry, "corrective" view of incel beliefs. I wound up writing something peacefully designed for the mentally ill, using inclusive language (pretending I'm one of them). Using a dummy account, this is what I posted:   You have the power to give your life purpose and meaning even if you never find a partner. Since your life is yours and yours alone, you are the one who decides what your purpose should be and how you measure your success in life.  Look at a list of VALUES https://jamesclear.com/core-values  like this one and write down whatever is important to you. Then, go back over your list and add stars to the ones that are most important. This could be two or ten or thirty: after all, it’s your life, your meaning, and your purpose to determine. No one else should get to choose your purpose but you. Next, on the list, write down three simple actions you can take that are in line with each value. For example, if I choose “empathy” as a value, I could: 1. Tell my mom I love her 2. Text a friend who may need encouragement 3. Get on the internet and say something validating to someone who is struggling. If I choose “honesty” as a value, I could: 1. Write my true feelings in a private journal 2. Tell the truth when someone asks me how I’m doing 3. Say something honest, helpful, and kind online. If I choose “fun” as a value, I could: 1. Make a date to play Frisbee in the park, regardless of my physical appearance 2. Read a book 3. Go to the local animal shelter and play with the puppies or kittens. I know that our experiences of rejection and isolation are easily explained by the blackpill thinking that gives us a reason to be angry and give up at the same time. I wish you didn’t feel that way, but I know we all do. Please don’t give up. Don’t lie down and rot. You as a human have inherent worth, and you still have a chance to make a life with meaning and purpose.  So. You’ve chosen your values and have started thinking about ways that you could align actions with those values. Now come the metrics. We choose the metrics we live by and those metrics are how we define success. If your metric is “have a partner”, then you will see yourself as a failure. We’ve all been there. If you change your metric to “honesty”, then every honest thing you do today will be a sign of you succeeding at your own goals in your own life. We generate meaning by acting in line with our values, then we measure ourselves by those values, and we can see that we are succeeding in life. I have several mental illnesses, and am pretty seriously ill. I’ve attempted suicide twice and survived. Sometimes I’m happy that I did, and sometimes I’m not. On bad days, I may not do much but sit in bed with my computer, but because of the metrics I’ve chosen for success, I can feel like I’m living my specific purpose and meaning. I can text someone that I love them. I can write an article about mental illness on my website. I can encourage struggling people on social media. I write to my representatives about the issues that matter to me. All of these actions line up with the values I’ve chosen for myself, so my day in bed is still a success. If I tried to measure myself by healthy standards, I would be a constant failure. That’s what I’m afraid most of us on these boards are doing; we claim failure when we don’t reach the goal of finding a partner. If we take “find a partner” off of our list of values, maybe we aren’t failures anymore. Maybe we can live with purpose, meaning, and self-worth. I want to stress self-worth. You have it. I have it. Both men and women have it. By being alive, you have a chance to have an experience that is completely singular to you. No one else gets to live your life or see with your eyes. You have something to give the world, whether it’s friendship, work, art, selflessness, charity, or simply empathy. You’re beautiful even if you’re not a Chad. Don’t measure yourself by Chad metrics anymore. You have more power than you would believe. Let’s start lifting each other up and celebrating our talents and values. As a community, we can encourage each other to embrace ourselves and strive for a life full of meaning that we determine for ourselves. A lack of a partner does not make you less-than. You are not doomed to a lifetime of misery.  I send out all my empathy to everyone who reads this. Pick your values and determine your meaning, and self-worth and success will follow. I believe in you.
I'm From Brazil, and Incel "movements" have grown a lot on the last years. in part i think, bcause of the rising of an far right wing on society/politics that kinda feeds incel way of think. Here, they got an even worst name for women. they call "depósito" translating= deposit like, deposit for sperm. this whole thing is getting really worrying
honestly i just found your channel and want to thank you. You take serious topics and help break it down in an unintrusive, unoffensive and even humersome way. Somehow you don't humor bigotry, but help people who have internalized even small amounts of it. Youve answered questions I didn't even realize that i have had. Ive had some personal things going on that youve helped me work though, so thank you.
P... P... Paris... Hilton...?
Not very often can someone just speaking in a video hold my attention this intensely for 30 minutes +  Thoughtful, constructive, informative and educational. In other words, really fucking great!
The same is true for conspiracy theorists.
Paris Hilton??  Did...did that one incel time travel to reddit from 2004?
A culture build on top of suffering? I thought I watched a video about incels, not about American history.
I called that shit
I'm learning a lot from this vid. Subscribed. FWIW, I'm from southern Ohio and call everyone "hon". I cringed SO HARD learning that something so innocuous could be used as a slur.  Why do cruel people have to ruin everything?  *sigh*  Thanks for the vid. Gonna have a look around your channel. Sometimes the algorithm does something right!
olly’s voiceover is making me feel something
I was already impressed, and prepared to subscribe, by your intelligence and wit, but the pièce de résistance was the unintentional ASMR from 22:22 - 22:35 🥰
shook
I have no idea why this was recommended to me but this was hilarious
You are trawling the depths to great success. I don't Stan anyone but God damn I stan you nuanced queen.
I could listen to Olly reading incel prose all day.
Anybody know what the title track is or where to find it?  The video linked in the description is unavailable.
On these online apps, if I do match with a woman (which doesn't happen on Tinder), I have to be the one to initiate the conversation one hundred percent of the time. No exaggeration. But also, I tend to match with guys way more, and they will message me about 40 to 50 percent of the time. Every time I get a message from someone i haven't matched with, it's a guy. Now I'm not saying I have an inherent problem with messaging girls first, but the ratio is wack. Just kind of corroborating CPs point about the radio silence. It's disheartening, especially when writing all these letters and sending them via carrier pigeon to stand out from the crowd and just get nothing. Ladies y'all  are in no hurry to break the gender role in this specific regard and it shows.
Love ollys American voice
How the cluck!? Watching this was an emotional rollercoaster ending in unexpected arousal. Your skill with language never ceases to entertain, surprise, and inform. Thank you for your content.
What do you call a group of white men? A subreddit
Being someone named Chad learning about incels for the first time must be like being a me named Abigail seeing (what i'm assuming is) a stereotypical terf in this vid lol <3
this is great thank you
You made me laugh a few times there xD
as a straight cis-male and first time viewer i can only say: wow! natalie, you are a brilliant and beautiful woman and your work here is extremely well done!
It's natural selection, there's no appeal -- make yourself attractive any way you can or fail to mate.  Whinging doesn't help, btw
Almost every contra points opens with discomfort.
My husband is a recovered incel (more of the big husky, hairy biker-macho-caveman type).  When I first met him, he said that "all women were just cum dumpsters".  He admitted that he was angry women wouldn't have sex with him.  He would walk around in a store and shoot daggers/looks at all the women he assumed would turn him down.  Thank fucking gawd the online incel communities weren't around back then, also thank gawd he's not into social media.  He's a perfectly wonderful, loving husband and life partner.
Your cat comment didn't age well for youtube
Damn that stratocaster quote is soo true.
So this is my first time here. Someone mentioned incels on the NonCompete channel & I didn't know what it meant.  WOW, you'd think me being online since around '94, I'd know more of the lingo online, but I don't move in these circles, so I've been learning MANY new words in the last few days, although I know I'll forget them unless I see them more frequently.   Interesting artistic video creation, so I'll give you that.  Thank you for educating me.   I'm an activist, holistic & spiritually conscious, & I've been studying human behavior since 7th grade, so I am pretty sure I know why these things happen & why people are becoming loners & more suicidal, but we HAVE to address that the Internet is partially responsible.  Yes, the Internet is a great thing, but it's also very negative, b/c prior people HAD to go out to meet people, they had no other choice.
Man u got me in the loop now I'm gonna watch all of ur videos and fail uni (only me to blame tho)
I'm absolutely scared by reconizing that I, by myself, came up with a theory similar to the red pill and almost became an incel. Complete with the hypergamy explanation, the "alpha-male" archetype and the illusion that all of my problems are due the lack of sexual relationships, and the reason of my lack of relationships are an innescapable predestination.    Luckly I decide to search psychological help in time.   Now I want to go back in time and slap the face of my younger-self for even thinking such absurds!
Just reads like a female romance novel, just roles reversed. OMG. A male expresses interest. Incels, go MGTOW. You aren’t missing much. All that pleasure has a price. The juice not worth the squeeze. Family court, metoo, divorce court, court of twitter, there is no due process for males. Consider yourself lucky, you haven’t gone down that path.  #RedPill #MonkMode
I got super confused about my heterosexuality when she said she used to live as a man. And I'm OK with that confusion....you learn something new about yourself everyday.  On another note, if you or someone you know begins speaking about some of the more extreme Incel ideology, seek mental health assistance immediately. We don't need another mass murder based on someones delusions of sex and personal image.
Holy shit...  So I don't really think of myself as an incel, I understand that my single status is down to my fear rather than anything women have or have not done, I also do not believe that I am owed anything.  But some of this shit is hitting me hard...  The stuff about hurt being true in particular kinda smashed into my brain like it was Joe Black...   I don't know what to do with this...
I have to admit, that I had to change my YT account to make this comment, which I'm not proud of, but it is what it is.  The part where you talk about your looks as a woman, the ones who are giving you positive feedback are right.  If I saw you in the street, I would have no inclination that you were formerly a man.  And I find you definitely attractive enough to be interested in dating you.  Just thought you should know...
20:06 "we're drowning in dick". And men surely aren't drowning in pussy. The points you brought up for men who are red pilled and black pilled were a touch on the extreme spectrum. But again regardless, a woman is more likely to drown in dick than a man is to drown in pussy. MGTOW make great points, especially about men's rights. Otherwise nice summations.
" _I'm so sorry_ "  I'm not, that bit is funny as fuck! XD
I didn't know mgtow was a thing but oh god I don't like the idea
She is hyoersimplifying the red pill theory and it is mixing it with the Mgtow, incels, mra and pua. Even when I am not a English native speaker and I am Latino I can tell the differences. You shouldn't take her words for granted or mine, people need to read Rollo Tomassi's book, The Rational Male
Why.....am I so attracted to this woman?
Me seeing  the tital: uh oh.
While suicide is never the ideal, I wish the mass murderers had opted for that instead of killing others.
god olly shouldn't be allowed to read profanity like that
Hilarious that "incels" exist. Freakin' idiots
So basically, Incel Blackpillism is the ISIS of misogyny... Also, as for "radio silence," just wait until you start pushing 40.  You haven't heard such a deafening silence LOL
It's like flat-earthers!
Society sure does like to pick on men these days. You are an ungrateful parasite who will never understand what it is like to think like a man or the struggles men go through in 2019 feminist America. You are the trojan horse of this country. My grandfather did not fight in Korea to see cockroaches like you disgrace male masculinity and dishonor us as a whole. Whether or not we men are MGTOW, incel, Chad, it's going to come full circle on you retarded zombies. Women will have to pay for their own food, pay their own bills, buy their own houses/cars, open their own doors, build their own bridges, build their own infrasctructure at this rate, you watch and see. You opened up a door you cannot shut. Congratulations. Good job. You are the epitome of cancer. Now you females will reap what you sow, and all the benefits of equality. Oh, and by the way, if a bitch punches me in 2019, I'm Falco punching that hoe to Saturn. You gon' learn today, with your corny bullshit. Do not mock men. You will regret it. Take it as a threat you fucking inbred she-goat, with your long neck, giraffe lookin' ass. You had literally no choice but to turn into a she-male. Faggot!!!🤣
Ppl will do so much to avoid taking chances that might lead to failing... Also henceforth calling my T shots chadjuice
Honestly I find the Becky more attractive physically than the Stacey. Stacey gives me spray on tan vibes.
I dunno why i got recommended this, but i do have one question. Is that a nigga or an actual girl?
Incel logic: being nice If the wamen does not respond or says that they are not interested Incel becomes very angry and blames chad and calls the wamen a female dog
I found the 4chan part si interresting. I never even knew this was a thing.
"Catastrophizing". So that's what my brain does!
i have a gut feeling that future generations will be tought about incels the way we were about cults and serial killers
What kind of fucked up shit is that? Is that even allowed!?  LOL!!!!!! Also, I am a woman and I have a MASSIVE NOGGIN lol
Excellent work.
But for real. This woman looooooooves water. I assume that was the main message of this video.
These guys are a bunch of creeps. They think about it too much. I blame the parents. These guys are a crowd of pathetic assholes.  Hope the idiots can layed in prison. Where the fools belong.
about bone structure.  yes 👍, it's also this.  the great different is, if you are a women you almost always will look good. if not face so it's Body.  so women not very good example. not the same here. here it's simply non cimetry structure and most people are whit cimetry look.  and all people love cimetry.  i think it's nice that you try to make us feel better.(in some weird way)  bot im not understand y r u choosing , to make fun, getting cruel to us…   isin't better to try to rich  a hand ?
ok 👌. halo to you. try complete isolation. just to get the idea .. how hard it is. yes you are right about few things, but what if the only way it's the one we can never go ?  why we need to be grateful to society that isolate and ignoring? you tell me…  m i wrong?  i got a few things to tell you as a incel.(guy how regected by women of all ages.  I'm  Clean and well maintained, physically calm and articular + hobbies. long before i new redpill things ben difficult for me.  take a minute and  imagine you  it's a little beyond sex and candy it's the complete lack of attention. except when girl needs something. and even that hurt. you need to look at this not from angle of us. what if som of us do car for themselves, but the isolation continues? you know what happens the human you thrown away to the shue?  it's not make them get very caring of the environment. because we are not part in.  about sex, and human proximity it's so important you clearly not comprehend. even if they Harassing you. it is not because you look like shit. last thing,  Red pill are true, like it or not.
This was my first ContraPoints video a while back and I still love it so much.  It made me a fan for life.
I’m like 5’5” and have dated women that were 6’0” tall.. does this make me a little chad? Lol
don't forget incels, you can always NOT EAT, BLOATED SUBHUMANS
Hurts my heart to hear that once upon a time you lived in a state of self loathing but I’m glad that you’ve been away from those sites. ❤️
These incels should just become trans..... if they look half as good as you.I would fk them hahahaha
what is the name of the stck music from around 10:36? the callliope tune?
wow great video.
I'm baffled at how perfect this video was O M G... the analysis is so spot on, you really delved into all of the complexity of this issue. and the connection to closeted trans women is so well put! thanks for this
This autosabotage is preety sad  Sometimes i make words in my Head that constantly hurts me
I've now watched a few of your videos and have found all of them articulate with well-thought-out arguments and interesting topics. Thank you! I'm definitely subscribing.
I've now watched a few of your videos and have found all of them articulate with well-thought-out arguments and inter
I have never had anything to do with incels and viewed this video just to see what it was all about, and I ended up taking something from it. "catastrophizing," "digital self-harm," and "forming mental habits" -- all things I have a tendency to do, and now I have words for them so I can be more aware of when I'm doing them. wow
Imagine her... bleep... LOL
Gee for the first minute I thought I was watching an Apple ad.
Came here for capitalism, stayed for feminism. And Contra's voice which is really satisfying to listen to
I never got to step 6 cos although I am self loathing, I acknowledge its my fault.
I thought red pill was just learning that men aren't as superior as women would like to say. Just watch "the red pill" documentary if you don't know what I mean.
Wow, how do you even inform yourself about this shit?
I’m a straight man, and I think you are goddess, Nat
I think the majority of these guys were emotionally abused by women as a child. I was one of these guys for a while. Here's the recipe: mother got rid of me, aunt had me around until her daughter came, grandmother beat me and my female teacher called me a liar  when I told her. Add a dash of of hardcore, socially acceptable feminism that tells men and boys how terrible they are and you spend your whole life trying to figure out what's so wrong with you. They need two things: to get out and face their anxiety and for women to not get so spiky when they try to share their experiences. It is hard when you even attempt to suggest that your life isn't nearly as wonderfully privileged as women assume and you have scores of women more than willing to shoot you down in order to protect their own assumptions. However, wallowing in your own lack of self worth is no way to live. There. I changed the world, now to go to drugs. 😀  Edit: I need to be clear, though. I never was on these sites, I was just a moody bastard who blamed all women for what happened to me. All of this info is news to me. So, I guess not an incel, just broken.
I remember I used to be a bit of an incel, I had a hard time with girls, I was worried I was unattractive so I didn’t try, but I signed up for tinder, mostly as a joke, but I met a cute Japanese student, surprisingly she liked me and we talked for a week, and told me I was handsome and intelligent, but we couldn’t meet up out of circumstance and I was too scared, but I learned I had potential, the honest advice I could give to incels is improve yourself and get out there, do something interesting, learn something, I met my first girlfriend on a student app who was interested in my vacation to Santiago and how I was learning chinese, as you can being interesting helps, I got a cute chinese girl out of having an interesting vacation.
Very informative thanks for posting it.
Misery loves company, I guess
Hearing Philosophy Tube reading that first post was so freaking disturbing!  His voice should not be used for such things, it's blasphemy!
Is she a dude? Kinda sounds and looks like it
i think your gorgeous
We incels are not always bad or creepy like the jewmedia says we are good people who struggle to find love it's not just sex it's also love
So you’re trans...  I feel like my straight just took a sharp right turn.
youtube has been recommending this to me for months and I didn't think I would want to watch it but boy was I wrong!
Am so glad I found your channel! Was so close to being an incel. Love your content!  Could anyone tell me what the difference between intel’s and neck beards are, I don’t understand... is there overlap?
I saw some statistics the other day that said that roughly 5% of men never have a sexual encounter in their life and 2.5% of women never do.  Now extrapolate that upon the population of the USA, then extrapolate the occurrence of mental illness.  That's the problem, address it however you want but a pep talk isn't going to help.  I recommend sluts, booze and a psychologist.  Cheers!
I’ve been binging your videos all day and I think it’s amazing how quickly you’ve been able to basically perfect your speaking voice technique and how much it’s changed throughout the year
Incels are obsessed with the idea of beauty being the sole reason any guy gets laid, which is kind of hilarious considering that every criminal incel is either average or slightly above average. Their personalities and beliefs are the cock blockers.
1:12 hahaha holy shit, I'm fucking dying
I became-- not an incel, exactly, but a self-inflicted recluse for a good five years because depression and shit self-esteem had me convinced I'd never have a chance at making friends or being in a relationship or... like, anything, basically. It can be a really hard mindset to claw your way out of, especially when it's so much easier to blame other people and not bother trying to improve. If I'd run into an entirely community of people encouraging that mindset back then... man, I might not still be here.
Hi stacy... Its T R A C Y
Here I am learning about incel culture but now I'm done left longing for a rainy summer night?? I guess I'll accept this
U legend!
Truly wish I could rescue you from tinder hell.  Show you an amazing time.  Wine and dine you.  Treat you like the amazing beautiful woman you are.  Then when the moment is right...  take you by the hand.  Take you in my arms.  Look you in those sooo beautiful eyes.  Kiss your cheek.  Then viagra smash the living fuck out of you in every way you desire.
I had to close my eyes when Elliott Rodgers came up. I committed to UCSB only a couple weeks before that and it was hard.
As a lesbian incel doctrine is just so.... strange to me
This is the first time I've watched one of you're videos....and just wow. You're using your platform to do real good in the world in a way that nobody else could have thought of. (And honestly when I first saw you I had no idea you where trans)
This is the most thorough description of “nice guys” in existence!  Edit: corrected misspelling
15:38 "Chadsplaining" F**king gold.    Five minutes later, my stomach still hurts.   As an aside, I used to be "blackpill" - from the 1987 to roughly 1991 timespan, but am now over 20 years married so you can overcome that state of mind once you recognize the fact that you basically thought yourself into it.
I am not going to lie, this video made me laugh my ass off. I feel as much sympathy for incels as I do for fat acceptance chicks. But I will say this one thing in their defense, they learned all of these traits from women. Virtually every pathetic self pitying behavior they have is the direct result of demasculinization. Feminists pushed the idea that men and women are the same and that masculine traits like stoicism are toxic and this is the direct result. These men were taught that they deserved love for "being who they are", and that "everyone deserves love" so instead of doing what is necessary to be worthy of love they get angry. So I guess I blame them 80% and feminists 20%.
the first minute made me uncomfortable
I wanna give you a hug so much right now, you're a great person and create great content
This lighting is the most interesting thing I've ever soon omg like it works well
ABIGAIL LEAVE MY FUCKHOLE OUT OF THIS
This was f-ing fantastic. One point - I've hated women every bit as intensely as the guy at 32:05 - but not when I was an incel (or a volcel as I am now)
Very interesting video. Thank you. Like smashed and subscribed (^_^)
i was always put off of watching your videos by the flashy colors and makeup, but after hearing about some people saying that your worth watching i've sat down to actually watch your videos and wow, its interesting hearing your point of view and you do it in a very good way. you remind me of jim sterling in how you do your skits, but with him i get a migraine and with you i'm laughing my ass off. so I just want to say, its great content keep it up.
This is fucking insane.
The alternative is that they have responsibilities in their ability to get a date. Of course they pick the one where they're a victim.
Oof, I remember being an Incel. Now im nb and I RESPECT THEM WOMEN
I'm 5 ft 3 and I dont give a shit about my height lmao these dudes need to grow up
This video perfectly describes the Incel movement and the problems with it, without the hostile condescension of others who try the same. Well done, new subscriber!
I don't even notice that ur a tranny at begging of this video. I hope to see this quality of transition here in Brazil being common.
But what if guys that fit their description of how incels are supposed to look went into their forum and gave the same advice that you said wouldn't work? Maybe if a bunch of not fantastic looking men infiltrate their forums to try and talk some sense into them, maybe compile some scientific reports that disprove them, come up with some strats to debate with them without getting kicked off their forums (or just be ready to make several accounts). I feel like there's something we can do to help these poor guys... I hate to feel bad for such an ignorant and hateful community, but they're people at the bottom of it, and they're just dejected. This was their way of dealing with it. Surely there's a way to help...
why the fuck does this have to be so indepth, this is legit the craziest circle jerk ive ever seen. Just have a whinge and move on, sheeeeesh
I actually have a tendency towards hyperbolic, catastrophic ideation. All it takes is being denied an apartment, an economic opportunity, myself screwing up something yet again (say, being late to something that will incur costs as a result in one way or another) and my brain can easily flip into shit mode, potentially for hours. To all people who suffer from the same: Practice Awareness, acceptance and commitment. I have other issues as well (in the OCD realm), and ACT (acceptance and commitment therapy) as a component of one's way of life works: I have improved in various ways over the years of practicing it, but it has to be said: I am being mentally counselled as well, so that certainly helps.  However, the approach itself in my daily life is what has gotten me to ruminate over people's impression of me less, it has greatly reduced the intensity and time frame of thought spirals and emotional turmoil, which years ago could impair me for weeks in some cases, and lodge themselves into things important to me for years, being just another component destroying my life.  I also find it helps with what I'd unprofessionally term "micro depression" (I have not greatly discussed it with my therapist yet, so, please forgive me the terminological misstep), where I'd be inclined to just view everything as some sort of to-be dumpster fire.  By recognizing that that's just my brain going haywire, and deciding to concentrate on something else instead of embracing it (to the degree possible), these fluctuations hold less power over me, and my ability to be in such a state for a shorter period of time is improved.  I have originally discovered that approach on a Youtube channel called "Mark Freeman" (the one *without* the 408 suffix to its name) many years ago. If you recognize yourself in this in any way, I strongly recommend you have a look.
I'm so fucking glad I am MGTOW. FUCK! These incels are so fucking pathetic and cringy as fuck.
Im just 17 minutes in but this video is absolutely fantastic, im loving this channel so much.
Holy I never connected studying skulls in incels and 20th c racism
It's also reminds me Robert Crumb's work, some stories are very sexist because he couldnt have sex before he became famous. After that, he always drawed women like a beast only to fuck. Congrats for your wonderful video. You are very wise and smart. And I didnt realize you are a trans until you said.
Ugh what is with this thing about men cooking? The media always portrayed chefs as being men. Such confusion.
Involuntarily celibate here. I'd love to answer questions about these sad misguided men if you are curious.
This is always so funny after a night out
I'm sure I'm in the minority in how I feel about this but I wonder how many incels are guys who are struggling with asexuality.
This is fucking terrifying
As a wristlet I can say this video is pretty fantastic :)
There is another option, you can become a scientist and everything will melt in comparison to your love of the universe.
You look like a pretty girl
Hay ContraPoints. Wanna go on a date with a swedish guy?? ;D <3
I feel like I'm too young to have heard the intro :(
I didn't like this video, at first. Then I heard your story about being trans and the acceptance thing. The advice you gave to these guys is really good and comes from a good place. I think it would help if you went in to a bit more depth about that radio silence on dating sites and how it hurts. That was REALLY important and only got a fragment of your attention. That's a big core, because like you said, these guys don't go out. I'm a "volcel", I guess they say?? Anyway, knowing that women have literally too many messages to read in one day, while some of those messages are from guys that are stupidly waiting on a message back, as though it were a face to face conversation. He doesn't realize the other end, nor can women imagine the radio silence. It's a great thing to cover, because these guys LIVE online. Online dating is probably the only courage these guys can muster up, and it still got them nowhere, to them. Thank you for your thoughts on this and good for you that you showed legitimate sympathy for them, instead of contempt.  Btw, I wouldn't have known you are trans, if you hadn't said anything, especially in the lighting you have. You look like a hot chick. You do not look like a man. You're attractive and a from what I can tell from this video, a decent human being.
Admittedly I am not familiar with you or your channel...but for what it's worth, I had no idea you were trans until you said so. Couldn't tell. Keep on being a goddess.
Wow this video went very dark midway
the t-shirts in the merch shop come in only two genders
I find the incel community to be full of malignant narcissists and all around very sick and predatory people.
Man this is some real staring-into-the-abyss level stuff.
Oh yeah yeah!
I just need to add one more thing - Men are sometimes afraid that Women will LAUGH at them. Women are sometimes afraid that Men will Kill them.  And why is it that there are no actual women incels???  Could it be the same reason that there has never ever been any women who have - started a war, were a mass shooter, and committed some other sort of mass murder???  Hmmm......BTW women do not go out only to f*ck guys!  Only guys do that!  and - The woman's body is under much more scrutiny than a man's body will ever be!
Thank you for the wisdom, insight, and satire in your videos. You are a beautiful person!
This video is a goddamn masterpiece
This was kinda entertaining but I can't get thru 35 minutes of it... lol
Saw you on the David Packman show,  decided to check out your channel and this video made me a fan.  Keep up the great work! Your insight about speaking to people where they are at" is a position I think alot of people would benefit from and is something I'm going to try and practice.  Ps. My gf loves your Victorian character from the trap episode.
Holy shit I'm in love with this channel and I've only just got here
Not even gonna lie to be nice, this girl is gorgeous  and i'm really gay incels get rekt
the true is: a woman feels WAY better than the start of the video describes. The very best part of the sex is the after, when you and your girl are laying on the bed, completely relaxed, chatting for hours about nonsense, damn this is good
- calling out incels - using the term “alpha male” unironically  Lmao what?
And let's face it: We are all nothing but bones with skin wrapped around it as vessel for our thoughts and perception of reality¨. Driven by an unseen energy source none of us can explain where came from.
If anyone asks to smell your panties, ask them if they want to go one better, and WEAR them....! Make it a policy.
SLOW F*CKING CLAP.
(As a cis gender heterosexual man, cowardly using an alias) This was a great video for Incels!  Look - most dudes and some women have been involuntary celebrate for a long periods of their long time.  That’s part of life.  But don’t loathe in it with negativity.  That which is fed grows.  Improvements and constructive criticisms can help.    Incestuous online comments furthering a downward spiral, don’t.
I try not to comment on women’s appearance, but since it’s on topic: yes, you look really good. You deserve to be loved, and I’m glad that you’re taking steps to improve your self image. All the best.
Wow, so many of these phrases were really prominent on "the misc" on bodybuilding. Com forums back when I used to be on there, I know that Elliott Rodgers was also an active user on there until his death. Tbh it was that event that turned me off of the misc.
I don't get why incels don't just save up for realdolls; they should be able to form more healthy relationships when they don't "need" sex as a primary motivator. Obviously what they are doing now isn't working for them, so it should be a viable option until they are confident enough banging a doll to approach a real woman without reeking of desperation. Or until better sex robots are developed; whichever comes first. Then people can focus on having meaningful friendships, instead of chasing validation from (whatever they consider personally attractive) people through sexual acceptance. And you can go crazy with the skull shape on your sex bot, if you want.
i thought you were a woman before you brought up the fact that you're trans. you have less to worry about than incels, but they worry way too much so really, how should i know
Thank God for you, Natalie. I found you through David Pakman interview, now I'm hooked.
I had 4 kids, none of which came from my 'sacred passage' or whatever (all 4 c-sections). It's over rated as hell.
I wanna help them, and I've tried. They do not want help. I'm a Mom, it's hard not to wanna try to help, but it's taken all wrong. I hate suffering so much, especially knowing that they want to die. It's so hard.
This was a great ContraPoints video to start on.
So an actual incel who hated himself and became a "woman" talks about how incels are bad. I agree incels are fucking dumb, but you are a mentally disabled degenerate too.
My non-experience with Incels through time: 1) Didn't know this word or community existed though it could have been guessed... 2) So... incels are just MGTOWs but who actually want to be involved with girls? Bunch of losers... 3) Wait wait wait... aren't all those comments, remarks, pictures just jokes? Most of them cannot be serious, more like self-parody, and to be honest, are completely hilarious. 4) Oh shit how long has it been since I've been in a date? I am incel... 5) Whatever, back to Baudrillard
Well, I must say knowing more about this subculture does make me want to never speak to men ever again.... I'm bi in an open marriage but I'm only really interested in women outside of my marriage not because I wouldn't find other men attractive but because I want to have good sex and healthy relationships with sexual partners, and men don't seem to make that possible? Even the ones I know well? ugh. Do agree that tinder is in fact trash though. just ugh.    HOWEVER, as a resource for anyone who wants to have positive healthy and fun sex with people with a vulva I do recommend OMGyes as a thing you should look into. great information, very well designed. Also please guys know how the human body works.
this is very much not related to the actual point of this video but I fuckin love delicate wrists on men
There's one you missed. They also have the "Chadcel". They're pretty frowned upon in the Incel community, as they have no "excuse" being celibate due to their conventional physical attractiveness.
17:30 ahh there it is. No wonder your voice is so off, your a man.
Actually I came across the term "involuntarily celibate" many years ago, and identified with it because of what the term literally means. So initially when I heard about present-day incels, I didn't even know that the whole thing had been warped into this misogynistic thing. Obviously it's not just straight cis men that could have a difficult time getting laid and finding relationships. Do incels even know this? Or do they know and just refuse to believe it?
That explanation of Digital Self-Harm was really eye-opening. I think I'm guilty of doing that in comments sections about politics and the culture wars. I seek out the ugliest shit and it does give me a rush reading it. Thanks for helping me recognize and I hope I can stop  reflexively doing that
What a second......just watching the little "gem" of what I will refer to as poetry, (but obviously it's totally not, but the way it was read with that instrumental music made it ALMOST KIND OF sound like something from "soft core porn" but not really) the written part at the very beginning of the video, did not mention a single bit about the woman feeling any pleasure, and certainly did not give any mention to the woman getting off so I highly doubt that the man who wrote that little bit of not poetry has NOT actually been in any form of intimate romantic relationship so in conclusion, it must have been written by an incel (or perhaps it was written by a "chad type guy" who just wrote it to piss off incels?) TOTAL CONCLUSION - ALL INCELS need to be involved in heavy therapy! if they don't want to leave the house then they really should just go slit their thin wrists, and leave the rest of the world alone!
Hey ContraPoints Fans! & Shout out to all the haters, trolls, & MAGA Morons too!! Thanks 4 watching the very witty, bright 💡⚡funny, entertaining, ContraPoints by Natalie Wynn!! Since every time you watch, comment, even dislike or otherwise interact with any video on any channel, it actually HELPS THE CHANNEL! So even though you trolls, and right-wingers are so filled with hate & love to spew nothing but garbage just by you bothering to interact (again just watching the video) is helping out the channel! LOVE TO ALL MY  Sister & Brother PROGRESSIVES & ContraPoint Fans out there!  And Natalie U ROCK!
There’s an influx of sexy Brazilians eager to learn about this cancer. Great outreach, Nat.
I come back to this video regularly for "The inherent eroticism of the sea" and "THIS IS LIKE A REALLY VULNERABLE MOMENT FOR MEEE"
Incels are an manifestation of the abyss. I find it best to ignore them.
they literally have worldbuilding going on here, wtf
Great. Now I'm attracted to nature.
Dear Incels,   Explain Danny Devito having sex
Thank you... a lot!  You are the only eprson I have ever seen anywhere who talked about this way of mentally wounding ourselves, u literally explained my whole trauma of discovering I’m gay (bisexual) and you talked about so many issues that almost made me go to some very dark places if I knew about them (like the incel community), also you are the only trans person I ever agreed with and I have a ton of appreciation twards you.  Thanks again for making this wonderful video (and running this channel)!
Is this a trans or a woman? Confused.  Edit: okay watched 3 minutes and can confirm that’s a trans.
Having had an existence on tumblr for the past ~6-7 years, I can't help but see the parallels between Incels and the suicidal ideation and societal ostracism of teenage tumblr users. At it's core, they functioned fundamentally the same; many of us found ourselves on the fringes of healthy socialization, and instead of examining the potential of inner reasons for that, we blamed society and decided to opt out of it. The same "dark humor" was used, with suicidal ideation and horrible mental health practices encouraged everywhere I looked. Memes about how much we craved death; aesthetic art blogs with depressing captions of loss over pristine images; communities of anorexic individuals comparing bodies and posting about how much they hated themselves. I remember posting a suicide note or two...  or more, and taking them down when I returned from the clinic after a failed attempt, or secretly removed it after failing, hoping no one would notice.      In the end, I think we were all (tumblr users, redditors, and humans in general) desperate to be noticed; to feel like we mattered. When the world made us feel like we didn't, we decided that neither did the world, only perpetuating the cycle of loneliness between us, society, and even others on the site. We were so blinded by our resentment of society and the ideals we felt we were expected to meet (just like the Incel ideation of the Red Pill and Stacies, and Chads, etc.). We couldn't see that we were a part of the problem; that we were the reason we (and those around us) felt lonelier than we should have.        I wish I could say that this sense of resentment never had a target, but it certainly did for many people. In the queer community (which I was involved in, as a non-binary transperson), the culprits became "cishet" (often white) men. We saw how men were treating and talking about women and queer folk, and we retaliated. We fueled their fire, and they fueled ours. Unless there was some sort of intra-website "culture war", no one would talk to someone outside of our community. The same in-group/out-group dynamic that is prevalent with Incels was (and for some, likely still is) wide-spread. I saw the radicalization of both sides eventually, and I detached. At that point I had become so isolated and depressed that I sunk into a mire of self-loathing, anxiety, and depression that I lost interest in everything. I had never felt more alone and I knew I needed help, though any effort to acknowledge that within the online community was met with fierce resistance and more "dark" humor. It wasn't until I reached the point that I was dysfunctionally broken and lost interest in doing anything that I stopped using tumblr much at all. I disconnected from this false reality we had all fabricated, and for a while I was truly alone. I finally got help though, and got medicated and had therapy, and addressed the real issues I had through therapy. I'm not the most happy human always, but I actually have people who care about me now; I see some purpose in perpetuating my existence, despite the occasional discomfort.    TLDR: Incels and tumblr users in the early teens of the 2000s had/have core parallels with inverted groups blamed. Both groups blamed a generalized group or society at large for their laments. Societal disconnection, suicidality, and self-loathing ensued, due to our inabilities to reflect on why we feel the way we feel and what we can do about it. The only solution I found was to disconnect from the Internet and social media; find something more important and tangible to care about. Maybe start with yourself, grow some plants, talk to a stranger, make a friend. Find something that makes you happy, no matter how small...
This sounds like some shit in a sci-fi movie or something. I’ve never heard of any of this in my life and it’s strange.
3:19 he meant darwinism, oh my god
People must really avoid going to beaches with you. Subscribed though!
Well theres 30 minutes of my life I will never get back, listening to this person talking utter shite, and all the soy boys in chat loving the lady boy.. lol..
Was not expecting random ASMR.  Love your channel hon, keep doing what you're doing.
I started watching this video not knowing that you're trans, and my first thought was like "oh god, she has sexy voice". I don't know how anyone could tell, that you "sound like muppet"
This Jewess is good...lol
Y chromosome means male. Not changeable.
*F E E E E E E E E E E E M O I D S*
"Voiceover by Olly Thorn" - my favorite thing is that I didn't even know about PhilosophyTube until I'd been following Natalie for like a year already. This was the video that convinced me to subscribe to her. And my first video of Olly? About a month ago. And guess what absolute GODDESS did voiceover on that vid?
Natalie, it’s time to size the memes of production
my sociology professor played this in her activism, protest, and revolution class today. very grateful for content like this to be produced.
Just out of curiosity, how does the incel community view asexuals or demisexuals of either gender?  I fear to hear the answer.
Swimming naked IS delicious. 😌
That incel vocabulary reminds me of Scientology's weird code-speak.
You are fantastic. I'm a 71yr old hetero female. You have a wide demographic. 😎🤗 You don't look like a man. I've seen you on another video with no makeup.
Incels should listen to Prince or some other music from Soul Train. That will  cure them of their affliction immediately. Lol
I got here weeks after watching Elvis the Alien talked about Paul Joseph Watson's talk on "Love is a Mental Disease". PJW's view on love is just damn absurd; anyone feeling that as a former victim of viewer of him?
femoids seems alien, something to fear and to hate
damn, thanks for putting all that energy and emotional sacrifice into the research for this
❤️❤️ I am a cis woman and I think you’re a gorgeous goddess ❤️❤️ keep doing awesome stuff, you’re saving the worlddddd! ❤️
Finally. Representation for sea freaks!
🍆☠️
*_"I bake my own bread, yes I'm outing myself as a baker as someone who likes to cook I'm NOT A WOMAN, I am ULTRA MASCULINE as you can see"_*  or.....  *_"I like to bake my own bread and it's awsome!"_* ..... *PERIOD*  A man who feels he needs to display his masculinity and explain why he bakes or cooks definitely got insecurity issues.
when she was talking about seeking out things that validate your worst anxieties about yourself... well, that hit me hard. i was having this morbid desire to look at these incel forums and see all the awful things they're saying about women and her saying that made me realize i "like" looking at those things bc a lot of the qualities they're trashing are inflated versions of qualities i identify with/ possess
Bravo!
I love the lighting in this video
Wow when did life get complicated or maybe I just don't give a fuck, having said that thanks for a most entertaining video
I mistaked you for a woman once. But honestly, I'd like you less if you lost your tiny cocklet.
Why YouTube did you recommend this? Like I did enjoy the video some great humor but how did I get here.
I think men not so sensetive to have fun with the  wave  maybe with  shells
This is the first ContraPoints video I ever watched. I found Natalie through hbomberguy. So glad I did!
Please start an ASMR subchannel.
#NotAll Yeah, like 99.9% of it lol.  Good job finding the 4 - 5 troll messages.  Now read some of the ones offering you money for nudes, or paid vacations.
2500 And it choose the 6 worse.  Yeah, yeah reeeal good "example" you got there lol.
"Im not here to mock incels"  *proceeds to mock incels for 30mins*
The 80/20 rule is scientifically proven.
3:41 infact, thats what makes them attractive.
2:35  You've already done that.  Just get it over with, go on and poke fun of the cast out of society. Nobady cares.
See, I am a disabled person with fear I'll be alone forever. My wife of 7 years recently left me for a man with an able body and money. It hit me pretty hard. (I kind of think my skull is better if I'm being honest though lol)   But I guess the fundamental disconnect I have between myself and the incels is, I really don't get the misogyny here. I mean, I get being a hateful bastard, I know those feels, but I feel like you're directing your hatred at the wrong party here.   I mean, not to contribute to objectivication of women here, but go with me for a minute on an analogy. If you're obsessed with gold. You desperately want some gold and you're afraid you'll never see any gold in your lifetime. Why would you direct your hatred at the gold? Would you just talk about how much you hate gold mines and how every time you see a gold vein it just makes your blood rage boil? That just seems nonsensical to me.  What you should be hating is the other gold miners. They're the ones beating you to the punch here, they're the ones snatching up all the gold. You shouldn't be angry at the "Beckys" aiming "above their station" at "Chads" but "Chads" crowding you out and getting all the women or whatever.   You go on a dating app and there's 30 dudes literally throwing tons and tons of awful messages at the 5 women on the site at a constant rate, poisoning the well for you, and you're gonna get angry at the 5 women? I just don't get that. I just pointed out 29 guys who are actually causing you your problems and you're just letting them off scott free in favor of some pointless misogyny.   It's just a thing I don't get about humanity I suppose.
This channel is so cool.
Can you please make Oliver Thorn read more dirty talk?   Really gets me going...
You ARE a gorgeous goddess.
All I'll say is that if thin-wristed, weak chinned, tiny headed dudes are sexually unattractive then how do you explain my orgiastic 20s?  Checkmate, atheists.
Is there such a thing as a "Gaycel"? I've never met a gay guy who can't GET IT IN!!
I tthink the thought experiment incels are pondering about the properties of the mysterious "vagina" having never directly observed one is called "Shodinger's Twat".
I'm the furthest thing from an incel, but I'll tell you that something is seriously wrong with our society. Studies have shown that women judge 80% of women to be below average in looks. In other words, women have been conditioned or conditioned themselves to only be satisfied with the looks of 20% or less of men.   When the majority of men have no hope of finding love and sex, society will melt down. Unfortunately, our society has abandoned the idea of marriage and monogamy. Those were civilizing and stabilizing forces.
THE MANOSPHERE EXISTS BECAUSE ROCK N ROLL IS DEAD
When I start catastrophizing and it gets out of control at some point your "oh god we're all gonna die" pops up in my head, andit makes me laugh but also it reminds me that I'm not being rational and helps me calm down.
25:15 Is that Throbbing Gristle?
5:25  404 chin not found had me in stitches😂
In today's world, "completely normal looking guys" are largely ignored by women, especially if that normal looking guy is below 5'10" tall.  Women chase after men who are well above average in pretty much all aspects and due to sexual freedom, they are quite content to share Chad with other women.   Then cometh the wall and the magical disappearance of Chad.   Oooops....Now its "Where have all the good men gone?" and "I think I need more cat food".  Societies function FAR better when most everyone pairs off.  Unleashed Hypergamy is bad for both men and women.  Young women need to be taught these things so they at least have a chance of making better choices.  The current young women pretty much have zero clue until their early 30's, but by then it's usually too late because even though they see the wall coming at mach 1, they refuse to let of their fantasy of taming a Chad.  Hypergamy creates scarcity from abundance.
The beginning of this video always makes me both wildly uncomfortable and thoughtfully focused
Damn those chads and their fuckable skulls
The Imagine How a Woman Feels thing is hilarious because it reads like a raunchy BTS Imagine that someone on Tumblr would write.
"The inherent eroticism of the sea" I love you xD
You love Abigail
I really liked a lot of this video. Though as someone who is more right-wing there are a few things that I think don't quite hit the mark at the beginning...  The red pill isn't related to hypergamy/normies and all the other incel stuff. I'm almost positive that stuff is also black pill. Being red pilled is when a liberal realizes that the left wing is incorrect on things like identity politics and intersectionality and thus, switches sides.  Also pick up artists came WAAAAY before incels and they aren't incels. They think that being attractive is a personality thing that you can master. They specifically think that  a guy can go out and through repeated social interactions teach himself to be the kind of person women want to be around. (Used to be one, sorta)
The thing is, I didnt even realise you are a person that has had a sex change. Good for you. Also, amazing content!
Jesus fucking Christ that fucking opening paragraph.
That must have been brutal to hear "hon" so often living in Baltimore. Surely the regional colloquialism is older than an internet-born language, but still. Damn.  You are also downright gorgeous regardless of any millimeters of bone. Don't let those bones hold you down until you whip them into shapes. Shape them however, but you're still stunning me right now. I also just saw you on Vice and am thoroughly impressed with your presentation and format. Keep up the excellent work! It's probably time to get it over with, and give Patreon some of my PII data.
Why don't incels spend some of their time and energy at least trying to date or get laid? I used to have an incel mindset when I was late teen/early 20's (many years ago). I figured I had nothing to lose by trying and I actually had a few flings as a result. I guess I wanted to get laid more than I wanted to keep feeling sorry for myself.
Lowkey wanna be as classy and beautiful as Natalie. Damn girl you’re stunning 😍
You are so insightful and smart.
Sense of belonging to a community plays an important role too. By posting their pictures and getting roasted by other incels, they are validating their membership to the group.
12:25 I just fucknig exploded in laughter what the fuck is he even saying
I think I'm a ChadCel, an apparent Chad that has limited money and no apparent game. Trust me life is unfair plain and simple. And do not thing cause your decent looking woman are swinging from your cock. In fact it in many ways puts you at a disadvantage. What was once true is no longer.
coming out as a baker literally happens in high school musical as a joke.....
I just arrvied to Contrapoint, and holy shit she's very articulate!
So what would you call a chad or incel Arab?
I know that's just beside the point of this video but the Becky girl reminds me of Rey and therefore my instant thought was "omg she's hot".  Also, not being incel I felt that many points abouts self-loathing and catastrophasing hit close to home. I used to have train(wreck) of thoughts in my high school that went "I'll go to uni [my country has free uiversities], but I'll never get a job, I won't be able to sustain myself, I'll end up under the bridge and I'll find no-one who would want me and will build family with me... Hm. At least bad genes won't be pass over in society". I'm not joking, 18-years-old me said this. And it's hard, really hard to abandon this type of thinking. I still have it sometimes.
For real who is talking about Paris Hilton in 2019 except for that one funny vitamin water ad she did recently
You really want to understand incels.... Start at the beginning.  Most were outcasts LONG before puberty.  When puberty came, girls rejected them because their social status was low.   This further crushed their already low self esteem.  From this, fear of approaching grows.  Rejection becomes immensely painful.  At this point, their ability to function even somewhat normally when it comes to the dating/mating dance simply does not exist. Now we find that at this point, different men take different paths.   Some turn to suicide.   Some turn to drugs and alcohol.  Others wind up spewing venom on forums and a small minority turn their anger outwards in the form of violence.    The standard reaction to incels is to demonize their reaction to their situation.  Few people have the decency to try to understand the forces that caused them to do the things they do   Fewer still understand that the real problem is our society that does NOTHING to help these men back when it can do some good, before or during early puberty.  And, of course, nobody even dares to suggest that women reconsider their (usually insane) selection criteria.
ADHD 5,9 Ugly as sin   If I can get laid, then so can you
I have to get down to the clinic to see about the clap of thunder I picked up in the last erotic storm
Hi.  Love your videos, but you made a critical mistake in designing your « manosphere ».  You mist not include men’s rights activists with these others.  MRAs, while it has extremists who fit that description, are for te most part perfectly reasonable men who are simply advocating for gender equality from the male perspective, as the male populace is disproportionately affected by some issues compared to women. They work hand in hand with real feminists.  Aside from that great video as always.
Hmm let me guess: incels wouldn’t take a second look at a Becky 😂  I do feel bad that they can’t get laid and I do wish things were more fair. But I don’t know what to do about that.  Also I legit think you look gorgeous - no hon here
I always wanted to open a bread scientry
This is the first time I’ve seen the issue of “fellas who ain’t gettin’ any” seriously addressed; usually just hinted at in matters of depression, self-loathing, low self esteem etc. Refreshing. Food for thought.
What strikes me the most about incels the way you described them to me (and since I never ran into any, I have to believe your account of them) is how, at the same time : - they obsess about the effect of superficial genetic markers, such as wrist girth, in the amount of pussy a guy can hope for - they seem to consider (and while part of it is certainly true, they might even take it a notch too far) most women are retarded, self-centered, lazy rapemeat mostly interested in money so they can keep living off the excellent rate they're getting in this day and age when exchanging sex to avoid actual work and other hardships  In your expert opinion, why do they have so much trouble connecting the dots? If Stacy is essentially a whore, her definition of Chad HAS to be money or status-based. So the easiest way around life for someone with too thin a wrist HAS to be sexual tourism, rather than this endless succession "black pills".  I can easily understand how a guy who doesn't get any, in spite of his best efforts for several years, could grow to hate women enough to fantacize about rape, or mass murder, or some other kind of revenge "prank'd moment". But any guy willing to invest the resources in a well-conducted rape or mass-murder or suicide (the price of a couple AR-15s, several unpaid years lost in jail, the end of your whole life) has more than enough to pay for access to sex and companionship. Any mass-murder involving a car or a gun (even a fantacized one where you do not get caught or shot by the police at the end) will set you back a few hundred or thousand dollars. An amount that would get you a night filled with more poontang than you can fuck in Cambodia.  In short, I don't understand why so many incles would rather consider mass murder or suicide than rape (which would be a healthier personal project, from a psychological standpoint), and even better why they wouldn't go for what I call "prostitution" (and which they seem to call "increasing one's value in the sex market").
Decent fan fiction, I mean the grammar is better than usual.
I've never heard of a water fetish tbh
Thank you.
The capacity of people to torture themselves on the internet is UNLIMITED
tap 1 to rock-it!
"2.1 million views"  For fuck's sake
Incel = slave morality-slave work. Christian ethics tearing at it's self. When everyone wants to be meek to inherit the earth, the "real meek"(socially disadvantaged) get attacked even more creating a cycle
I love everything about your videos. the content, the language, the bits of humor here and there and specially the fabulous set design. you go girl
Too much salt, couldn't take it. "Understanding" hehehe
I mean i know so many men who date younger women and i never hear women complaning about that? I mean idc i'm a dyke and i date girls my own age in their early 20's but i did notice that. .. so it seems just as straight women "only care about looks" according to incles, men only care about 18-26 year old women no matter how old they are
I consider myself like a base incel. I haven't  gotten laid in over a year. To no fault but my own mental illness and manifestation chronic pain, as well as gaining a shit ton of weight as a result. I can sympathize with most of these young men to some extent. Not getting laid can drive one a bit crazy. Especially if one has never been laid before. Idk
So many accurate conclusions about the vicious circle of self-loathing and catastrophizing. I have had kind of an incel mindset myself (however strangely, during a relationship), and I can directly relate what you said about catastrophizing to my own experience. Fortunately, I didn't enter 4chan or any forums like that and had lots of support. I would point the paradoxical and, perhaps, common pattern among self-loathing people that when your problems revolve around attractiveness and social acceptance, you crave them, but in the same time you can't get yourself out and try, because you always fear that you will fail, and that your failure will only reinforce this belief. For me it felt as though destiny itself was mocking me, the conviction that I am worthless was like a monstrously huge tower above me that would grow taller every time I tried to reach out to somebody and have at least a decent, genuine conversation. I remember I had a week with no classes, and I spent it in complete isolation, afraid to even simply go shopping for food, because I could encounter people who seemed better than me in this respect or that. Surprisingly, it stopped when my exchange term in Germany was over and I went back to Russia and had to work on three term papers at once. The following semester was very busy too, and it kind of helped me focus on other issues. It's, of course, not a panacea, though. If anybody experiencing similar things is reading this: don't go through this alone, reach out to your friends, relatives, find a therapist, consider medication.  It's a very slippery idea to unravel this on your own somehow (an idea which I was obsessed with), because you don't have a clear picture of your actual self, your brain is wired to focus solely on your weak spots, and it requires some training to recognize the cognitive distortions like catastrophizing, prophesying, overgeneralizing and all sorts of different things.
As scary as it is to say this, I met a guy with asperger's who told me he understood why Eliot Rodgers did what he did (i.e.- being sexually frustrated and losing his mind).... I took the opportunity to let him know EVERYONE has insecurities, and dating/socializing isn't easy for everyone, we all just work through it. He kept rationalizing the frustration and  murder. I find it super unsettling to date.
THANKS SKULL PEOPLE LMAO
I don't have to imagine how a woman feels. Olga, my 18th century Slavic prostitute demon, reminds me every time I try to have a normal interaction with any person I find remotely attractive or wildly unattractive.
30:07 btw thank you for the trigger warning, i've seen far too many videos where i'm just not mentally prepared to hear about self harm. if i know it's coming, i can distance myself enough that i can still watch the content and avoid most of the feeling of being triggered.
The part about 4chans /LGBT/ and posting pictures there hits home painfully for me. I have subjected myself to being mocked and harassed there many times and now im crying.
Chadslaining....bread scientist... im fucking dying. How can anyone be so funny.
Well I think you look gorgeous. No hon intended.
...and this also explains the mental effects of Fox News...
suddenly, phrenology.
Honestly, I wonder if there are gay incels. I mean, there gotta be, right?  I wonder how they talk about their frustration, if it's comparable with heterosexual incels
Meanwhile, I'm here, an asexual virgin with no interest in having sex, taking a snack.
oh...you look preety girl
ah yes, the wristvoluntary celibate community  ????
Truly, these men have no idea that women are fellow human beings, and aren't just sophisticated sex dolls who all harbor the exact same AI and the same unassailable sense of self-worth that somehow drives us to always seek out the hottest guy because we all feel like we deserve it.   Like, you have no idea how many dating profiles I've passed on out of hand because I *could not get myself* to imagine that a very attractive man could respond to me positively -- even were I to claw my way out of my severe mental comorbidities for the day and put on my absolute BEST face.  For someone to believe that ugly women have it any easier than ugly men is absurd. We deal with *just* as much rejection and radio silence.   If anything, ugly women have it worse, because ugly women do not have an entire patriarchal tradition behind them, bulwarking our self-esteem and pressuring "the opposite sex" (*rolls eyes because binary don't real*) to 'not be so shallow' and 'to give ugly men a chance'. There is no long enshrined line of popular TV shows pairing and normalising comparatively 'fat' or 'ugly' men (...which, TBH, they're not *that* bad -- but compared to the sea of breathing mannequins that our media has for so long been obsessed with hiring as actors?, Fine.) with beauteous wives and girlfriends.   We do not even possess the luxury of losing ourselves in the twisted pleasures of anger and misplaced hatred, as men are encouraged to do when they don't get the attentions they feel 'entitled' to.  We are instead left to chase wild storms in the hopes of immersing our bodies in the feel of passionate gale-force winds, all while our ears absorb the jokes of others which insist: "Well, if the wind were sentient, he wouldn't want to touch her neither, haha."  Which, BTW: *Fuck y'all!* I happen to know that the Wind is a straight up fat admirer -- for him, the bigger the better. Why else do you think there is so much wind out by the sea? :3 I mean, that woman is VAST!
I'm sending this video to all my meninist ex-friends
Just discovered this show. One of the reasons I've always liked Last Week Tonight with Jon Oliver was because it did nuanced deep dives on complicated topics. This show does the same thing but with glitter, sparkles, fun costumes, and mood lighting. I love it.
seacel?
"the manosphere exists because rock n roll is dead" this makes sense to a lot more, not just the incels   *i blame nirvana btw
While I'm a towering 6"4 chad, but also a serious leftist intellectual I had Lacan read to me by Grouch, so I know that all sexual relationship are in the end just masturbating with a partner. Instead of wasting my time fostering relationships and training masturbating partners I just hone my own skills.
fuck you trans boi
LEAVE MY BUN ALONE YOU SAVAGES
He is so creepy, good grief.
I shaved my beard to give these losers a chance and they waste it by complaining online. Sheesh
I actually couldn’t tell that you’re a trans woman until you have mentioned it
I enjoy cooking, but it's more art, than science.
I discover your channel a week ago and I love it. Your performance Is funny and reveilling. I am waiting for your new video. Greetings from Mexico.
So incels are whiny, insecure, entitled and toxic spoiled brats who don't believe in self-improvement and personal responsibility? Yep, glad I grew out of that phase before the internet became an echo chamber of that madness.
this appeared on my recommend right after the shooting in a school in Brazil where both killers were incels. I'm so glad to have clicked on this video!! this channel is fantastic and I was just hypnotised for 35 minutes, thank you for the amazing content, Natalie
This is an amazing video. I honestly never would have guessed you were trans, but your insight was great!  But sweetie... rock n' roll never died. We just brought it underground.
I am always excited to hear about the pure e r o t i c i s m of the sea
Lady, you're gonna sound like Bea Arthur someday. Also, that intro voiceover of a man narrating sex is weird. Should have used woman's voice if you wanted it to be sexy. Are you a Gemini?
CHADS OF COLOR
It's funny how men claim to understand the minds of women even though they don't have the mind of a woman themself.
Incredible piece.
Can a female identify as an incel?
Came here from Vice. Funny how no one on the right wing youtube is making videos on her even though they’d benefit. They won’t Because she is spot on. She has a huge audience I don’t understand why youtube never recommend her to me.
The objectively most attractive thing a person can have is self love/confidence. They're literally digging their own metaphorical grave.
Can someone please explain to me the context of the bread-scientist guy?
ContraPoints is so gorgeous!!! <3333  >.<
I love your channel. You have such a unique and interesting storytelling style. Can't wait for more!
Compelling af.
Why did you apologise for one type of names but not another??? Discrimination much?!
The Stephanie Miller show sent me here and I am really enjoying your videos and love the lighting.
Really interesting video and some great insights on the commodification of Romance.
Much better video for incels in particular:    https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eMoBELOiGMk
I wonder how many incels have body dysmorphic disorder without knowing it. I’m a woman, but I have the condition myself and it is hell to live with. It makes you obsess over ‘flaws’ in your appearance, even if they’re not real, and you will do anything to hide them. It can make you think that you look deformed and that everyone else around you thinks so as well. The way that you look becomes the only thing that you can think about, and it is incredibly difficult to feel good or even decent about yourself. I can imagine that being in a community that constantly reinforces that you're ugly and unlovable and always will be could heighten the symptoms of the disorder even farther.
I don't see a reason not to pity or feal sorry for the incels, most of these people are suffering from untreated and most probably undiagnosed mental illness (or autism) and ridiculing, ostracizing or ousting them will only make their shit worse.  Cheaper mental health care, openness and acceptance of people who aren't neurotypical and suffer from mental illness is what these people need.  At least in my humble opinion.
What Natalie's describing @22:00 - a ton if people feel that way, trans or not. I was born female, am female, and wish I could shave down my brow bone or nose sometimes. They're not especially feminine. But, I'm not going to because it's my face and I don't want to have surgery over minutiae. But, like, if you do, cool. Go do it. If you want something bad enough, make it happen. But it won't fix your insides if you're doing it because you feel inferior.
I prefer unconventionally attractive men. I've dated men who are shorter than me, obese, low-earning, needy, shy, has kids, etc. Funny thing is, they cheated on me! Fix yourself. Women aren't the problem.
My autism compels me to point out that the term "red-pill" is just a catch-all for a particular set of worldviews that predicate themselves on the notion that there is some true reality beneath the surface which most are not privy to. For incels, this is the Chad-Stacy hierarchy (which you explained perfectly, btw). Also same goes for the black pill - any set of beliefs which boils down to "the red-pill reality is so innately unfair that I'm doomed from the start and should just stop trying"
What a sad and defeatist outlook.  Just, like, read a book, go to the gym, check out new music, find a hobby you're passionate about, get therapy, or make the effort to acquire a new skill.
Who is doing the David Attenborough voice though lmao
Ultra masculine bread scientist LOL ok gurl keep telling yourself that while preening your beard
chadpreet. nice lol
incels dont like ugly women lol
You're fucking brilliant. Thank you for being you. The world is a better place because your in it.
Sorry can't help myself. I'm a lesbian and I think you are so fucking hot. Okay, back to serious comments.
yo, Super Eye-patch Wolf brought me here, and frankly i feel somewhat embarrassed for not having found your channel sooner. You put into words the feelings I've had about not just incels, but so many radical self-harming online communities so well. And for what its worth, Im a guy and I didn't realize you were trans until you said so yourself.
Muahahahaha foppington's law.... so great looooool :D :D :D
Ah, the metaphysical vulva.
>literal tranny going off about a dude being dysmorphic about his wrists LMAO FUCKING LMAO
Not all women feel the same way, just so you know. Glad you are happy.
bro does anybody know the name of the second song that plays in the video? its the lofi one that i hear everywhere but i always forget to check the name
The one thing Incels probably don't know is that the skull is malleable and there is no need for surgery to re-shape it.
17:53 That made me rethink The Awakening.
You are so brave, so smart, and so informative, and not that it should matter as much but you're really beautiful too. This video was awesome and very necessary. Subscribed.
Thank you, Skull-people, for showing me the way. Fuck, I want to join the tribe called Skull People.
You are freaking amazing!!!
Yo, hit me up when you got a vag.  (I mean it as a joke, but like not really tho pls hit me up)
Isolation, self depredation, anxiety, insecurity, & depression seem to play a role at a psychosis level within the indivduals of the InCel community.   There is an unusual dichotomy of self loathing, & narcissism being played out here. In that their narcissistic nature seems to encourage their own self loathing, & by effect their hatred of what they (their narcissism) can not possess for themselves, they wish to destroy in others to make others suffer for not relinquishing control over to them through sexual intimacy. Thus the useage of objectification terminology in their language.  Ironically, that very unhealthy behavior will lead them to further isolation. Humans by nature are social creatures, & it has been shown that the individual suffers from isolation, just as they would from any other physical (heart for example) disease, with potentially equal effect.  The fact that this behavior is nutured, & reinforced by others (peer review/pressure) could potentially have devastating effects on all involved, or who may become involved in these individual's lives.  Sadly, at the root of this psychosis, is the individual's need not only for sexual release (physical validation of one's worth) but, a need for actual intimacy that can only come from companionship via comradery or relationship. Which I believe, is the source for the catalyst of their self loathing. Thus, the vicious cycle of destruction continues. Never allowing for adult emotional maturity to be experienced, & thus to be nurtured, & grow in a positive environment.  The only way to break such an individual of this self destuctive life (depending on their cognitive ability, & psychological capability to do so) would be to "hard reset" them with years of positive therapy.   Initially they may need to be institutalized, & forced to accept that they are capable, & deserving of companionship, & affection both mundane, & intimate levels.  The average person simply does not have the intensive skillset necessary to help these individuals.   Nor is our society known to encourage such levels of mindfulness, patience, & compassion.   In fact, society too, shoulders the blame for such iindividuals within its ranks. Society encourages many of the mental toxicity, & traits found in the average InCel. I dare postulate, were an InCel of more mental resolve, & had access to a large amount of finanical wealth, most InCels would be the "Chads, & Tyrones" of the marketplace both, in business, & in intimacy, with the praises, & blessings of society. After all the ability to produce large pools of resources trumps even "skull genetics" of physical appearance.  As for women, evolutionarily speaking they are the selectors of who they will mate with (outside sexual assault/rape) so there is some truth the the theory of hypergamy. Although, I would say it's more to do with evolutionary handwiring. A woman (hardwiredly speaking) knows she, & her offspring will be vunerable, & at the whims of fate if she does not choose a mate with proper resource gathering skills, & the ability to protect her, & her offspring. Sex, & by this statement, her fertility, & exclusivity to her mate are all that she brings as legitimate resource to the table, when bargaining for his provision, & protection. Thus a sexual market value is established. A quid pro quo as it were.   "Love" is merely a chemical reaction of hormones in the brain that reward procreation, & subsequently carry over to form pair bonding for a healthy, & better chance for survival next generation of the species.  It is only our high congitive functions in our brains, & how we process information of events that cause us to have feelings of romanticism.  That being said, an InCel, either through self delusion, peer pressure, or prior lived experience sees this natural order of evolution as yet another nail in the proverbial coffin, & either can not, or will not take responsibility, & accountability for their actions, & behaviors. Favoring the societally encouraged "victim" mentality that we are seeing in not only InCels but, in many individuals, across as many communities within society.  The bottom line, is that these people do not want your pity, & do not deserve mercy. What they need is to handle their shit, & to be part of a societal community that encourages them, & reinforce they have tangible worth bith to self, & society.  Only then can any healing for these lost souls can begin. I'd like to close with a social experiement if I may be so bold. I want you, the reader (assuming you made it through my essay, props to you btw) think of your darkest hour thusfar in your life. How did you pull yourself out of such a dark place, & heal? Perhaps, rather then bashing InCels as pathetic losers, instead, share with them how you made it through. Even if they reject your wisdom, & life experience, it may reach, & save one from their destructive path of suffering. Ironic, & rewarding to think, such a person you may have saved, may not turn out to be the next mass shooter because of a moment they had with you.  My last advice is not my own, but rather a sage lesson I long ago learn from a movie called, "Bill, & Ted's Ecellent Adventure." I would like to share it with all of you.  "Be good to each other, & party on dudes! (Dudettes!)"
Oh shit, the part about digital self harm and masochistic epistemology hit way too close to home.
Life is difficult for young men, and a lot of us feel like we've been lied to.  29:30 I can totally relate to the joy in discovering all these hidden truths that our churches and our high schools do not teach about "the real" human sexuality.  I agree that blind misogyny (just like blind misandry) is toxic, but maybe the more insightful incels are calling on WOMEN to improve.  Men are always being told that they need to change their ways, while for a whole generation women have been told how wonderful they collectively are.  Men have been told to stop being shallow, start accepting fat women, etc etc.  Now it's time for WOMEN to stop being shallow.  Date a short man.  Date a fat man.  Date an "ugly skulled" man.  Yes, average ladies even in your early 20's.
Another video made with more Horseshit.
I know you’re looking for constructive comments but these people are just stupid.
Great video.  Someone shared this on Fetlife as part of they discussion about incels and I really enjoyed it.   Love your sense of humor.
Stephanie Miller show mentioned you on 3/18/19 so I looked you up on the next commercial and spent the next hour listening to your videos while working. Sub earned.
This is the most well informed shit ive ever heard
Pretty funny video, considering it's made by a freak who doesn't deserve to live.
12:23 NOOOOOO not the BREAD! Your dick will fall off!!
CP you are an incel
Lol I love this video, thank you for making this.
Imagine all of the individuals who killed themselves because of illnesses, abuse, homelessness etc. And then you see these fuckers making and encouraging suicide threats because they got rejected once or twice and didn't get laid.
You didn't mention the steps they take to become wizards. I am disappoint.
This video is wonderfully well-made!  A great mix of compassion, intelligence, humor, and vulnerability.
this was beautiful bravo!!!
Tbh as a former incel who grew out of it and lost weight and discovered I'm not that ugly, it's a dark place. Mostly bcs we feel lied to, my parents raised me to be obese kid without telling me consequences, which led to being ridiculed by the pretty girls at school, which then led to this dark place of wanting to grabbing a gun and pulling one in their dome to see if they are laughing then. Instead I became over excessive for my weight lost, and I went from obese to anorexic weighing 110 pounds at 6 feet tall. Then I got normal but trust me. It's mentally horrific
Woww! You are brilliant. this is the first video I have seen of yours and it is so funny and intelligent. that creepy asmr clip made me spit my drink out!!
BRILLIANT video! This has given me (a Beck-tacie, tho no Chads ever looked my way) a more compassionate view toward Incels.  Thank you. Warm hugs! And, you ARE beautiful!!
This is very informative, I've been hurt by these types and I've probably hurt them .. they are probably bad truamatized and aren't ready for a relationship but are horney or something. Hating women is ruining the world... But hating the people that hate the women wont make more love...  Everyone just needs more love..... *Cry* lol
This is very refreshing. It's great to see someone who DOESN'T agree with these ideas discussing them without being dismissive.
Wow you NEED to do ASMR that one bit was niiiice
Pure genius, my hat's off to you contrapoint this is so well put ,well said, funny, touching and brilliant. This is my first video of yours, I will definitely check out the rest. Thank you for doing this ,you may just save the world
Thumbs up for the inherent eroticism of the sea. So wet...
I know you are reading this negative comment Natalie and you are a big poopy poop face who eats poop and is a butt.
To get a chin just tense ur jaw from stress that’s what I do
“Chad” looks like one of the JACK androids from Tekken
This is a god damn amazing video oh my god
This world is crazy! I'll watch the last 25min later.  Wow women date above their social status? That's a problem? Men adore youth and women desire stability and protection. This crowd of angry pathetic men is crazy. Look up mewing for goodness sakes. Fix your bone structure and get on with life!
This is incredible.
This made me feel so awkward, those incel posts and videos are. Dark and creepy as hell
So, yes, progressive and inclusive activists calling “everyone beautiful” without any further conversation, could easily be read as obnoxious or fake. Within the constructs of our society, of COURSE there is a hierarchy (bread from sexism and racism) that determines the highest standard of beauty.   I would argue though, that if one is scrutinizing that very structure, and pointing out its absurdities and destructiveness, then one could very easily say that everyone IS beautiful, because beauty is just an (exclusive and oppressive) idea.  For me, to say that everyone is beautiful is synonymous with saying “fuck this system that tries to define beauty for us. Fuck this system that says womanhood is based on one specific appearance, or appearance at all”.  Furthermore, one point doesn’t cancel out the other. So if you wanted to be HONEST with someone transitioning who is asking for your opinion, you could highlight BOTH points that they may still be somewhere in the middle their journey of “passability”, but then also  immediately question what “passability” even means, and stand strong in the belief that everyone is truly beautiful. I would reiterate to the transitioning friend that the most beautiful thing about them isn’t whether or not they APPEAR to fit a standard of beauty that oppresses the very cis women they may be trying to emulate. The most beautiful thing about them is their enlightenment and honesty with themselves about who they truly are. In my personal opinion the pinnacle of their beauty is their bravery in fighting every damn day to BE the person they know they are meant to be.   Yes unfortunately, nuanced conversations are time consuming. Even with free time, many people don’t have the tools to express those nuances. But generally when I see an attempting-to-be-inclusive statement such as “you are beautiful, everyone is beautiful”, that’s how it reads to me.
Yo, the piano music is too loud.
Any skull is fuckable if you just keep quiet and let a girl sit on it. *shrugs*
Skeletor is the ultimate chad
You are a gorgeous goddess!
The bread scientist had me in stitches
Excellent video!
Damn I thought that you were naturally a woman. You can totally pass as female. It’s crazy how you only started to look manly when when you mentioned it.
22:38  4th Base music pls?
I am a woman and I have a big head, my head is rather manly. But I'm a woman nonetheless. I have 2 kids that came from my vagina. I have a hetero husband who often makes fun of my large, caveman forehead. Doesn't stop him from putting his dick in my face hole though. So its total nonsense to say women dont have big heads.
Speaking as a straight white male you Rock
Ewe that poem is so creepy
Nicely done. Great video.
33:15  I'm sorry to ask about this but, I'm not fluent in english, and I kinda need to know the meaning of the "volcel if you wouldn't" line?   Like if you could rephrase it I would be so kind of you..
What if you were an incel *called* Chad?
Sorry I got distracted by the unintentional ASMR of the tapping on the skull, what did you say?
You’re beautiful and wonderful, and wildly smart and creative! Thank you for blessing this world.
This video is a masterpiece <3
I'm an MRA.  MRAs don't believe red pill theory, any who allude to something like it would talk about it in terms of men being unappreciated and undervalued as people which results in a distorted view women have of men, a kind of universal negative modifier which shunts those 2's to 1's and 1's to 0's and so on. This is believed to be sociological and a result of misandry, similar to the need for a "Black is beautiful" campaign and so on, but more around appreciation for male body types as well as mens humanity as a whole.  Crucially, not all of them buy this. It is an attempt to explain the phenomena being described by other factions of the manosphere in sociological terms related to misandry, especially explain the data they throw out with attraction bellcurves and so on. If you go to the MRM reddit and ask them, they'll tell you as much.  I think that MRA approach is a start, but there's also need to focus on mens fashion choices not only as directly addressing this, but as a recognition of a form of feminine power which men can appropriate to advance their rights, control over appearance with an eye to the fact that attractive people often wield more influence, and that maximizing your agency is important both personally and politically for the movement. Even if you are not attractive, you can be more attractive.  There's also the impact of slut shaming and women not initiating and how this impacts the dynamic which you're probably aware of already in terms of how it benefits more attractive men, but beyond that there's the impact of the pill, which artificially lowers womens sex drive. (Not coming out against the pill per se, just noting factors behind the current problem. Male birth control or alternative birth control becoming more common would be good for this.).  Artificial scarcity of womens sexuality caused biologically by the pill and sociologically by slut shaming ofcourse means distribution is skewed instead of more balanced. Testimony from women who abandon the pill and suddenly notice they're finding far more men attractive and have a higher sex drive explains a lot of the current dynamic. The bell curve Incels use to argue for womens hypergamy (That men rate womens attractiveness on a bell curve, while women view highly attractive men as average and 80% of men as "Below average") could be explicable by a chemical reduction in womens sex drive and consequently how attractive they find men.  There's plenty of shit MRAs might say about hypergamy as a phenomanae, but they don't like the term because of the ideological baggage it represents, and they don't believe the red pill interpretation of it.
The amount of trans women on 4chan is a phenomenon that fascinates me to no end
Such lovely people. I wonder why women don't throw themselves at them.
This was amazing! Thank you for this!
I appreciate the new perspective
hehehe the incels have a "dicktionary" hehehe... i'll show myself out
I have a suggestion for the incels... Go to Wal-Mart - ALL the fatty, nonChad men are married!!
Holy shit, when you said chad-splaining i lost it, this channel is amazing.
She got a point. The sea is very sensual🐙
I actually enjoy your videos. You're clever, actually do your work, and only express judgement where you actually think it needs to be expressed, without having prior bias. Plus, you put a lot of work into these. You're like, an "SJW" type activist, but you're respectful, and actually know what you're talking about. Keep it up.
I hadn't heard of tttt until now, but now that I know, I feel its gravity pulling on me a bit. I don't want to look. But it's basically the headspace I've been stuck in, without dwelling to that extent, for a few years... I live in Portland, where everyone's super supportive (you wanna talk about hugboxing), but I just can't quite untie the knots between myself and an honest identity.   Well, I won't go look at it today. That's a start.
why did 6:12 kill me
Just blocked 4chan and tumblr! Thanks friendo :3
29:10 ran a chill down my back This is literally Lovecraftian cosmic horror. "The most merciful thing in the world, I think, is the inability of the human mind to correlate all its contents. We live on a placid island of ignorance in the midst of black seas of infinity, and it was not meant that we should voyage far. The sciences, each straining in its own direction, have hitherto harmed us little; but some day the piecing together of dissociated knowledge will open up such terrifying vistas of reality, and of our frightful position therein, that we shall either go mad from the revelation or flee from the deadly light into the peace and safety of a new dark age." When knowledge about the Truth, or the perceived truth, harms you... are you supposed to seek the truth, or hide from it?
You are wonderful! Funny, insightful and honest - I'm totally blown away. So glad to have found you and thank you for excellent content.
Ah! What a joy it has been to discover your channel thanks to vice. Most political videos leave me feeling angry or sad. I have been watching your videos for a while now & they have a calming effect. Time for bed but I can't wait to binge watch the rest.
*Ram bow chin*
4:27 not just a brilliant turn of phrase: it may actually be the first time I’ve heard someone use the term sour grapes in the correct context.
Now I want full on hours long skull-tapping and incel-bad-talking ASMR streams.
This is my new favorite YouTube channel. Contrats, Nathalie, you got yourself....... A BRAZILIAN FAN!!! How exotic, am I right?
Dating isn’t easy for anyone , habits have more to do with success then pre determined qualities everybody likes funny it can sometimes matter more than looks.
That beginning made s o uncomfortable 😂
Semi interesting point about Elliot Rogers saw documentary about him , he never tried to approach any women or be social with anyone. This persecution complex of his was a by product of his mental illness, he was minimally social in activities didn’t really have any friends didn’t try to date.
"Skull-people" is hilarious.
I love how they can't change skulls and shit but they can change their shitty personality so they blame the skulls ✨
I guess I'm what you would call a "volcel". I'm an asexual woman who figuratively and literally dgaf when it comes to sex. That said I understand the point about feeling some sympathy. While I can't relate to the desire for sex, I'm open to the idea of a relationship but haven't had much luck. I don't blame it on my looks and I'm aware that I'm not super social. But I think it's dangerous to let your happiness depend so much on one person, hypothetical being or not. And I say this as someone who tends to catastrophize due to mental health issues. Be proactive and always look toward self-improvement even if you need some time at first to wallow.  I love the trans perspective you brought to this discussion. At the end of the day acceptance is something we all crave so it's counterproductive to antagonize and isolate incels; their thought process is worth examining and deconstructing. Hopefully some of them watch this & reflect on your experiences as an eye-opener.
Talk about being honest and vulnerable. You're amazing. Fuck.
The female sexy way is
Stop! Stop being stupid!
I think I've finally found myself.      *_and now I just wanna die_*
Omg I love this video. You're funny, intelligent, inspiring and beautiful. You just got yourself a new subscriber (and admirer) <3 <3
That is the saddest thing I've ever heard of......I wish it was illegal
I was friends with an Incel without knowing it. I started dating him after 4 years of friendship. I took his virginity without knowing it and we where together for more then 6 years. He pretended to be loving, understanding and the perfect boyfriend. Then I found out that he had met a 13 year old younger girl about a year ago, started dating her and lead a double life. He fucked me and my family over pretty good and also his second girlfriend. He faked having cancer, took money from me, lied about everything. I learned to never give an ugly, fat, incel a chance again. I only date men who are extremely good looking and a lot younger then I am.   If you give an Incel a chance they still treat you like a peace of shit.
BREAD SCIENTIST!!!
I fell asleep watching this vid
INCEL’s are actually pretty easy to explain.  They’re guys who are too socially awkward and/or unattractive to get laid at a party or other social gathering and too lazy to go out and get a job to earn money to pay for it.  Oh.... and rock and roll is NOT dead, damn it!
God I’m such a fuckable chad What with my dad bod, forehead for days, and   C A R E  A N D C O N S I D E R A T I O N  F O R  O T H E R  H U M A N S  A N D  A C C E P T I N G  A N D  A D D R E S S I N G M Y  O W N  F L A W S  A N D  I N S E C U R I T I E S
Wow Gurl you got me!
phe-nominal video! like seriously!!! You are a blessing to this trashbin called PooTube.
I must write this comment.  I used to be a frustrated incel at one point in the past. I am no longer one and the reasons are different than the ones you offer as the possible solutions here in the video.  My one single genuine question is this:  Isn't Hypergamy real? And most of primate, or mammalian species in general are hypergamous with one overly sexual male (call him alpha or any other thing) and most other males trying sneaky sex most of the times. Many weak males not even surviving to the age of sexual maturity ?  I dont want to commit the naturalistic fallacy here and I know human society is more culture oriented than being based on natural givens, but still that don't nullify the natural 'truths' the society stands on.  But I do get that those naturalistic truths hurt the sensibilities of Modern left, which indeed have brought about big changes when it  comes to changing our attitude towards culture and human capabilities. But this 'progress', you have to agree, is not an infinite process. At some point or other you would come face to face with the wall of the natural construct inside which life exists. Our capabilities to subvert the natural world is directly proportional to our capabilities when it comes to the scientific realm. And we have started to see the limits of that endeavor.   Trans-phobia would not have been that big an issue in a world where we would have been able to change the sex of a person on a genetic level and change the complete body anatomy of the person based on their preference. That would've meant the total command of the natural world and structure by the scientific mind of man and hence these objections and conflicts would not have existed.  Many of the issues like trans-phobia, incel culture etc are the result of the speed difference between the capacity of human mind to think up things and the scientific advancement that allows us to realize those thoughts. The biggest red pill is that the meme sold to us of infinite progress of human intelligence and the subsequent advancement of man becoming god, is just a delusional egotistical myth and nothing more than that.
17:52 "Ooh yeah don't you just want to get in there" LMAO
This is pure cringe. I am not talking about the Incels. But, this confused person trying to explain other people's dilemma and life problems while pretending to have own life in order. Atleast the incels are not pretending to be the opposite sex to get some action.
Wow this is a thing and there's this much about it insane pretty informative though
wow. this is literally phrenology......wow.
This person was a dude right?
The thing is though, I know A LOT, I mean A LOT of ugly guys who married beautiful women. I always got the impression that women were willing to date and marry ugly guys based on what I have seen in my life. Why does it all have to be about looks and social status? Can't it be about love and just being true friends with people? Their heart and minds are sick and need fixing not their looks or whatever else. If they hate women, why would any women want to be with a man that hates them? Why don't they just be gay and date other men since they love men so much? Not all incels, but those that hate women.
Seems to me more guys try to be with women a lot more attractive than them
This is hight art and I think I love you????!
so, everyone should be given a state purchased electric guitar. this is the best treatment of this issue I have ever seen.
Phrenology + ASMR = DX
Lol I love this shit. Good fucking shit.
I find your manly facial bones sexy.
Isn't roosh the asshole who's trying to legalize rape? Fuck his entire family tree and all the tasteless, fragily masculine bread he bakes
The sad thing is that people who proceed to mock incels are doing more harm than good. For example r/inceltears is doing a great job at alienating incels even more. We need o treat them for what they are - mentally ill, just like anorexics and bulimics and other body dismorphias.
There is no way that there is a dick thicker than any wrist. Because if there was then i’d know about it
Chad is not only “a type” that has ALWAYS turned me off - I’m not attracted to “the look” or the arrogant attitude that usually goes along with it. If these incels used a millionth of that energy towards being a better partner - Maybe their lonely asses wouldn’t be lonely 🤦‍♀️
Just become a trap bro.
4:41 that’s actually a piece of fetish art. It’s from a dude on deviant art. Though it looks like the person who made it “memed” it up a bit.
18 years of being an incel is not a mundane setback.
The first minute and twenty-six seconds explains the deranged ideology that warps the minds of insecure men. She groans because she enjoys receiving your manhood. She feels ecstasy BECAUSE you ejaculate inside her!!! They look at women as objects who are not only suppose to please them  but as objects that are suppose to derive pleasure from pleasing them.
I am a nerd but I don’t understand incels pos modern society looks crazy
They should try 2 things. -not being shit people -actually going out once in a while
The production value of these videos!!!
"Sacred passage" DYING
Ok recommendations, I finally clicked it jeez.
Just rub one out to the erotic sound of the ocean and stop catastrophizing.
To the people who came here from vice welcome to the family. Hope you stay and subscribe.
It’s your 5’8 thin wrist mentally handicapped boy here to tell you that you can always get a loving woman if you try hard enough. I had a 2 year long relationship with a girl who I haven’t gotten over lol (Edit): the red pill is Fascism The blue pill is Centrism The black pill is the “realization that society will collapse and nothing matters therefor just do whatever the hell you want” Etc
First time I’ve seen these videos. Subscribed!  Funny and beautiful and brilliant: no “hon” about it.
Hey hon how ya doin?
I liked that you actually tried to empathize to how hard it is to adte as a man
Fuck! I’m glad there was no Internet or Incels, When I was teenager. … As I Definitely had the potential to Become one. But as you so eloquently stated it, for me it was a Hohner Marine Band Harmonica, not a strat (Insert jokes about oral fixation is here). Between my undiagnosed ADHD, my learning disabilities, heightened sensitivity, and PTSD from childhood trauma, being that I was overweight, Being that my father was an abusive narcissist who have no idea what a “man” was, I would have been the perfect recruit. And then, throughout my 20s, I ended up in what we all affectionately referred to as the “friend zone“. As an adult male, I understand the friend zone is horseshit, now. But I had to fucking grow up first. Fortunately for me, I had for whatever reason, and ability to be introspective. Granted that didn’t help at all the self-loathing, But like you Natalie, I have a philosophical bent. And my only safe place as a child, was my mind. So I got to know it. It’s interesting in retrospect, I actually lost my virginity at 14 (Add a weight watchers summer camp… So, add that to the pile of teenage self loathing… Only a miserable little fat boy would be depressed about getting laid at a weight watchers Summer camp, and she was beautiful truly… We are actually still friends). I do have empathy for these poor lost dudes. Ironically, empathy is the only way that any of these guys are going to find any kind of peace. Empathy for others, (which women find appealing… Hello!) And, the hardest challenge, empathy for them selves. Fuck man, I’m 48 years old, and it’s only been in the past year, that I’ve learned to treat myself with compassion. And look I’m in a healthy marriage, with a wonderful, beautiful compassionate intelligent woman. But it took me years to find her, I literally met her right before my 37th birthday. And thank God! We were both too adult to bullshit each other, end or more pointedly, too exhausted with life to be anything but real. And frankly neither one of us were looking for a serious relationship. But I believe, because we saw each other for who we truly were, warts and all (got those removed…) and we didn’t bullshit each other… As far as we know I’m in shit we all bullshit ourselves right… He’ll actually the fact that we can bullshit each other, in the long run help us to stop bullshitting resolved… That’s a whole other conversation. My point is,… Oh did I mention that I have a history of catastrophize Ing fucking everything… My point is… Look shiny object… My point is, you can get To a place of… Peace with what is. Because I mean truly that’s all any of us can work towards, right? All you can do, is be aware of the one thing that you have any control over, which is your reactions to your own feelings.… CBT fucking works! Anyway… Squirrel! Anyway, if you’re ever in the Shenandoah Valley in Virginia, Staunton Virginia is a safe space... And I’d love to buy you coffee! Hope you’re well.
The skull is changable google orthotropics https://youtu.be/zbzT00Cyq-g
I don't know if gorgeous, but certainly you're beautiful. And your voice is funny but in a good beautiful way.
God, you are gorgeous on every possible level and I deeply love you. Like, I'm a gold star gay and this is purely platonic but, ya know what I mean. Love ya, keep doing what you do.
I do kinda understand where they are coming from. In a world that tells guys growing up that personality is what matters and looks ain't shit, yet as years go by you kinda start realizing that the asshole gets praise and pussy. Or the fact that short men are the least sought after demographic over fat women yet "short male shaming" doesn't exist in people's mind. A male with a small penis will be ridiculed for having a small penis, but a female with small breast has solutions and can even get another man to pay for her enchancements. These guys grow resentful, resentful that they were lied to by their own parents and society at an early level to not make them cry.
Really interesting.
I just discovered you today, thanks to the Vice interview. That was pure awesomeness. You're a great person. Glad you've stared at the Abyss long enough without it taking you. Excellent point on the mental viruses - too many are sick and its too overlooked.
You, my empress, are an intellectual rocks star. Your channel is so 👏 important 👏.  I love how you seek to understand, explain, unpack without judging, and lead to logical conclusions. I love how you lay out what's problematic, but also finish with what can be done about what's problematic. You're a sort of wicked interloper. A vaccine against fascism.
"You don't open with panty sniffing"  <---------- My favorite line
Jesus Christ this is sad.
...This is first video I watched from you. ...was not expecting that opener
Love you. Best youtuber ever! Philosophical ideas translated for laypeople.  Kudos!
give me a break. This man would be an incel if he didnt take it up the ass and pretend to be a girl. The irony here is astounding
It's all hilarious until I remember we're talking about real people here...
Im sorry I lost it at fucking Chadpreet
I hate myself and I will never be happy.
So I'm not a "Chad" I'm not physically perfect. I'm overweight, cross-eyed, a recovering addict, etc, got a weird bone structure. But I get mad pussy and I seem to attract women easily. So tbh charisma and the courage to talk to a female is really all you need. (also making them laugh helps.)
Why does shoving a warm piece of sausage in a warm hot pocket have to be so complicated.
I knew i found my sister when we both clocked Paris being talked about in 2018 xD
I'm entirely new to your work and this is the first video I've seen (thanks to Vice). I had no idea you have lived as a man. I wouldn't have had a thought to question it if you hadn't mentioned it. You've clearly moved beyond this kind of praise but the things you mentioned in the fourth base of this video have convinced me to go ahead and mention it anyway.  I'm enjoying your words. Thank you so much. <3
bravo! 🌷🌷🌷🌷🌷💯👌
I'm a camgirl, I can about 20 requests a day from Chad's who want to fuck. My boyfriend is 106 pound tiny wrist "incel" and I would way rather suck his dick anyday. Why? Because he's confident enough in himself that he's the only guy who's never been shitty about my job. He knows I'm happy in our relationship and doesn't care what I do for work. But I have these smoking hot dudes who literally say "we can date but you gotta quit your job" and it makes me cringe because no one asked to date you 😂
You are magnificent. Your content is moving and I'm so glad to see that someone is facing this challenge head on. I could go on and on about what I love about your video. This is the first one I've seen and I subscribed. Btw, I didn't notice you were trans for a solid five minutes, and I still doubted it. So I'm not sure why you would think you look too manly, not that it would be a bad thing if you did anyway. 💖💖💖
You could also listen to Enigma (Principles of Lust) or The Devil's Blood.  Eroticism is everywhere. One needs only cultivate a proper sense of receptivity.
Removing the stigma from sex work might help!
This was the first Contrapoints video I ever saw, and is what led to my becoming a firm fan of Natalie and her amazing mind. (The amazing outfits, props and lighting is just a bonus, imo.)  I just watched it again, and it's still my favourite. I know it's inappropriate to say, but I think I love her. 💕
Your videos are a Gesamtkunstwerk!
I can only imagine how many men out there started self smashing during your video, only to realize...surprise!!!😂😂😂 Jokes aside, I learned a tremendous amount by watching this, I had no idea what 'blackpilling' was, for one.
F E M O I D S
fist time watching. I watched the entire video, which is rare... subscribed!
Great points all around.  Especially the end about rock n roll, even if that was a bit of a joke :P  Also not sure how someone can be insecure about baking bread...though i am sometimes insecure about my man purse and have been thinking about blinging it out with some band stickers or something.
This channel is amazing omg
I NEED DAT POOS. Yee boi. This shit has me geekin ngl. But only cause i get mad poos. Tbh youre funny but i disagree on most of your opinions. This is just funny cause pussybois cant get poos. Lmaoo
Thanks for making this! When you brought up black-pills and catastrophizing it was like looking in the mirror. I've never considered myself incel but I've been down some dark paths in my head lately. Thanks for showing me some light at the end of the tunnel.
They're all setting themselves up for failure. It's really sad actually.
yup the strat method actually works
14:00 I make 5 points on that, I hope never reach the sixth one... :(
Did anyone else crack up at that clip where Roosh referred to himself as being "Ultra Masculine"?  No he ain't.
Great video. Also, I think you have a nice voice. So try not to stress about that. :)
Love you!
First video of yours I've ever found. You're fantastic! You're quite insightful, as well as beautiful. Will definitely be back for more videos
Having a erection from the last part
You are a gorgeous goddess! <3
I disagree with you on nearly anything but really enjoy your videos a lot. Incel these days just means anyone who does not agree with "progressive" ideas. It's what happens when words are misused too many times. I am subscribing nontheless because you are very entertaining and kinda hot!
thanks for shining light onto this. incels are actually lacking empathy. they've been through so much bullying and torment from society and are so hurt, they hate women but very reasonably so.
[sexual whispering]
You are absolutely brilliant.   I am curious how long it takes for you to work on a  script.   This is just brilliant work!! OMG I loved the humorous addition of Abigail.   The head size rears up in the 4th act!!! I just cannot believe how genius this video is!! The dark turn!!  The 5th act begins with a whisper of Anal.   The perfect light funny humor to palate cleanse before the 5th act began.  Never knew much about incels except that they are angry guys not getting sex with some weird vocab. Thank you for the amazing video on the topic.  I appreciate the relate-ability and the vulnerability it takes to speak your truths. I bought a foreclosed house in southern maryland I am still doing some work on.  So if you ever need anything let me know since Baltimore is straight up route 2.
Vice brought me here... and I am so glad they did! This was brilliant!
That ending is awesome. Quite beautiful.
Who is the guy you use to read the textposts?
This is literally the best thing I've seen in at-least 6 months. Funny, informative, quick-witted. LOVE IT. Thank you ContraPoints!! <3
Your humanity and patience is moving, Natalie; thank you for making this series. It’s very enlightening!
Love this video!!!
Thank you for making this video. The world needs more people like you and I wish there was someone like that in my life who understood things on a large level. I feel relieved to have heard you speak. If you had nothing but hatred for these people, it would be justified. Your display of strength and compassion, yet firmness on your position, your inclusiveness, which I know was probably a difficult thing to create, show that people can really understand each other. Truly inspiring.
You are amazing! I love you ❤
Wow, I just started watching your content and I absolutely love it. I don't identify as an incel, but this video really dredged up a lot of... feelings.. revolving around self-love and introspection that I've struggled with for a long time. Keep doing what you're doing, and I'll stick around to watch.
This ending was pure art! amazing.
I'm glad I'm subscribed to vice. I would have never found this channel.  I'm glad I saw this video.   Very informative.
The Incels can't get laid because of their personalities and lack of social skills more so than their looks.  Women are not into looks as much as men are.  That is why ugly guys with disproportionately hot women is a cliche.  Sadly, changing one's personality is not really any easier than changing one's looks.
Informative, legitimately hilarious AND well edited to top it off? I'm sold. This channel is pure gold.  Also the shooting, scenery and lighting are top notch. I mean, I'm not a specialist by any means but anyhow this video was thoroughly entertaining and informative as well. Also kinda scary, I suppose. People are messed up.
You are fucking BRILLIANT!!!!!!!!!
I almost became incel, when I was much younger, until I realized I can be friends with girls. I became pretty close with most of them, by the end of Freshman year I was friends with more girls than guys, and got allot of good perspective that you just can't get from the internet. Most of them helped me become what I am today, and I didn't have to hit on them or date them.
Ai meu Deus! Eu sei que sou hétero, mas eu tô completamente apaixonada por essa mulher! ❤❤❤❤❤❤❤❤❤❤
I may not be an incel but I can identify with the cotastophising in general
Just. Fucking. Brilliant. That's it. That's all.
thank you for this video. for being so clear and responsable on your text. ❤️
I just found your channel today AND IM IN LOVE!!!!! This is the channel I’ve been looking for! Keep up this amazing work ❤️💕 !!
Love this. I like that you don't assume we don't know everything, cough Vox, but also you talk about everything one two or more sides. Perhaps that's an attractive quality? Your videos are like pouring St. Germaine liquor on my brain and lighting it on fire. I'm sparked with questions, new opinions, and a desire to learn more about philosophy.
So ik it was a joke but that point about rock music isn't necessarily wrong...
first ten minutes of this is already so informative
Subbed from Vice. Great work you’re doing out here. 👏🏾👏🏾👏🏾
Just found out about your channel today, already in love <3
A lot of lies in the video, strawman and jumping to conclusion
OH MY GOD THIS IS THE BEST THING I'VE EVER SEEN, HAHAHAHA there is a word that we call guys like that, LOSERS!
I am non-binary and I do get it. When I feel like a woman, I am too large, not feminine enough and when I feel more as a man I hate my boobs, my freaking periods, my disgusting fat ass, etc. I wanted to look like the magnificent men and women I see around me. Let's be nice to ourselves.
I just found your channel after watching videos on Eliott Roger and starting searchs on Incels. Your youtube channel is amazing. The content is amazing, the colors and the backgrounds are great as well. You have a new follower here. Greetings from Switzerland. (PS: You are beautiful !!!! if you care about my opinion.)
I can almost relate to them, except for the whole women hating and 'the entire world is against you' kind of mentality.
You pass so well I would date you oh shit wait I'm Pansexual.
#notalldick
weird how they still think women are the shallow ones 🤔🤔🤔🤔
Your realy realy realy good at this YouTube thing
That moment when you can't tell its all just a fucking joke. Autism.
Great video! I came by your channel after doing research about incels. I'm from Brazil, where recently happened a school massacre where one of the killers supposedly was an incel (it's still under investigation). Thanks for the incredible explanation! And sorry for my bad english.
Committing mass shootings is not something unhappy trans women are doing, but incels... And it all comes back to society structure
The BIG DIFFERENCE between this wonderful video and the one that PJW did is empathy. PJW basically tells people not to become incels while he does the same as incels: "oh, let's blame feminism, you are killing our testicles and cappacity of showing masculine traits". Plain and vague, right? Wonderful video, Natalie! I came here again after the mass shooting that happened in my country yesterday (the boy was an sui incel) :( This self hate and hate towards woman needs to stop
wow xxx
Thank you.
You are fantastic, smart and beautiful. Love your content. Keep up the great work! 🤗
I´m in the black pill already. However, I don´t consider myself an Incel because to me sex is disgusting. This, I´m thanksfull for not being attractive, as such, I´ll never have to worry about women taking my money or giving STDS or unwanted children.
I love this channel. Lol
Holy shit you got bluechecked. Finally I love you congratulations.
This was impressive. Intelligent, fair, and empathetic.
Coolest channel I've seen in at least a year. Bravo
Holy dang! Met the channel today! I'm absolutelly in love!
Hella interesting subscribed incels need an attitude check as a gay man who's hung out with a LOT of druggies & losers the whole red pill/black pill idealogy is bullshit everybody gets laid when they put themselves out there & isn't a defeatist asshole
What happened? I clicked on a link and the next thing I know I've watched 35 minutes on a video about Incels and liked it.
Really enjoyed your very informative video. I have to admit that I didn’t really understand the whole intel/mgtow movement. It’s far more frightening than I thought. You have a gift of presenting information in such a way that I actually feel motherly towards these “he-man women haters”. Admittedly, I don’t feel motherly enough to actively search them out, but should I trip over one, I will be kind.   PS:  I was taken by surprise when you said you were trans. Here I was thinking, “Yay!  Chica has such a rich voice!  Look at how brilliant and lovely this woman is!”  I’ve got a not so soprano range myself (I sing contralto), so a woman with a deeper voice is a kindred soul. I never thought for a moment that you weren’t a woman. You GO, girl!
Somebody please please please give this woman money for more of this <3
Baltimore, friendliest place in America...but its home.
music at 9:01?
Incels are just a bunch of cucks who don't know how to socialise
i find 'chads' to be repulsive. I'll take a pale skinny sensitive nerd any day <3
you're so great
This is great. Somehow both a thoughtful, persuasive dissertation on INCELS and restorative soul-medicine.
Imagine being such a shitty apathetic person that you blame your lack of attractiveness on fucking forehead structure.  "Femoids dont like me because my forehead is too squared"  > never bathes > overt sexist beliefs > straight up pessimistic, depressing personality  > no fucks to give proper dates > sexual entitlement
...the Chad circumference...  Lmfao
Holly fuck, i love this video, we had an "incel situation" in brasil recently and  i'm doing some research, this got me a lot of information, and things to look out for  Thank you
"Leave my fuckhole out of this"   Dead 😂😂😂😂😂
This was fucking awesome!!
I've watched this a while ago before I knew of the extended universe TM that is BreadTube and who Olly Thorn is. And now I watched this again and the intro just got me like ( OOOOF ) !!
“These apps are bad for men who aren’t photogenic.”   This is what incels call a cope. It’s bad for men who aren’t attractive.  Incels are not normal looking guys. Saying that would mean there is no correlation between being attractive and thinking you are attractive.   And no correlation between thinking you’re unattractive and being unattractive.  Also you said it yourself. You have tons of people calling you pretty or a queen. Most incels have never been told that they are remotely attractive in their entire life.  You refuse to believe it when people call you gorgeous. Incels refuse to believe they are attractive while nobody has ever told them otherwise.
(((good)))
F*** the sea. I'll die climbing Everest. You're gonna have to work to get this booty, you salty b***
🚀🤖🛸 FOLLOW ME IF YOU WANT TO LIVE 🚀🤖🛸
Could it be a lot of incels are on the (autism) spectrum?
This is a really good video.   The whole channel is really well done tbh.  Vice sent me here today and I’m glad I took the leap and watched a few of your videos.  Intelligently done, without judgement and well thought out.  You managed to find middle ground in an area that’s extremely difficult to find.  Really though, good on you.
I'm a human I think, though I can't prove it as I can't recall being born at all. That aside, incels are goofy.
Oh god I can't stop cackling at this intro
You are beautiful <3
I gonna be 100% true in this. I though you were a biological woman. And only when you said that you are a trans woman I started to look for a male sign in your face or body... didn't find.
standard new-age psycho-babble technocrat satanist, working tirelessly to confuse young people and lead them into slavery, despite everyone is already enslaved, with smoke and mirrors and ridiculous, nonsensical talking points. Clearly trained up by other control-freak psychotics in private schools. 2,026,303 views as I type this `beware when the world loves you``. We're on to you and your covens dearie, we are coming for you.
I just found your channel through Vice. Awesome! I'm recovering from back surgery, so I'm going to binge watch your awesome videos. Love your aesthetic, attitude, wigs, everything. ❤️💖
I was skeptical, but my god is this lady the voice everyone is able to hear. I genuinely thought i was the only person seeing the positive impact Jordan peterson was having on "far gone" incels (clean your room, etc). If i expressed that sentiment in my friend circle i'd be shot down. Yes obviously he's problematic, but you've gotta engage somehow.  Anyways, finally a breath of fresh air and common sense.  And savage humour.  I love the humour.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vRcJjS-fUY0  INCELs have to check this out profiling system
Can someone please explain  to me why what she said at 18:30 is problematic?
incels have been a hot topic lately for some reason and I came here to get more info. Thank you for making such an informative (and hilarious) video!
I’m a 24yo virgin, I’m not bad looking. I don’t buy into any of the crap on incel forums about bone structure or w/e. However, women seriously aren’t interested in me, like, at all, and it’s not a fun existence.  I’ve been rejected many many times, I once messaged over 100 different girls on a dating site and not one replied. I just don’t get it.
Go see a hooker n get a tug for 20 buckaroos, fuck sakes. Seeing men stoop this low is pathetic. One word prostitute. Lol.
Fifth base.................(whispers) anal   👌👍
Interesting points, I especially like your take on the weather
Great video about an interesting and tough topic.  Also can we get a foppington asmr skull tapping vid
27:29 the way you said "comes"... is that normal in English? I'm not a native speaker and that sounded a bit odd
I fucking literally love you for being so real and honest! You are my spirit animal Natalie!!!
you get my subscription with the Marie Antionette getup!
GD YOU ARE SO GORGEOUS!! Thank you! You are truly amazing!!
How many people were listed in the credits, like 5000?
This started off just as a hilarious takedown of an easily hateable internet community but some of these reflections on what these corners of the internet are doing to us psychologically are seriously profound.  I too have formed all kinds of unhealthy online habits in my lifetime and quitting some of them has been empowering and positive for my mental health in ways that I could never have anticipated. Only in hindsight can I really see what these things were unconsciously doing to me. Stay off 4chan, kids. Go outside and dance.
Okay, I loved your video, but I am  a fan of Bloodborne and that finisher about the sea enveloping us freaked me the fuck out.
"bad dick" = the guy is UGLY. ITS ALL ABOUT LOOKS.
YOU'RE NOT A WOMAN YOU'RE A MAN.
much cringe
These incel guys need to stop spending so much time commenting about their insecurities on reddit and get off the computer screen. Their so insecure ,that's why nobody f**ks them. They need to care about themselves more than having sex with some random chick.
I need "Leave my fuckhole out of this" on a T-shirt.
Youre so hot
Sorry to hear a part of you didn’t believe the positive comments about your appearance. I came upon this video not knowing anything about you, and assumed you were a (rather attractive) cis woman with one of those naturally textured voices (which I personally find enjoyable to listen to). Took several seconds to sink in when you revealed you were trans. 100% wasn’t expecting it. Excellent, thoughtful video.
Brilliant and illuminating as always. So terrifying that impressionable young men are being sucked into this darkness, especially neurodiverse men like myself who often have trouble making social connections.
We must go to the sea.
Hail there travel let this old internet wanderer give you a piece of advice. Beware of falling into the “comments” and take most care of not falling up spells why traversing the “reply’s.“  Someone who doesn’t wish to listen won’t, But they will defend themselves, with the fervor of dragons fire.  I regret to say I always look to read and commonly come to regret it. If you can’t control yourself, turn away now. Foul thing breed within the deepest and darkest realms of the internet and they may find you if one is not careful. Good luck to those brave souls who still dare to tread. May the brightest of stars guid your way.
The skull reading thing is called Phrenology which is a horrible system of “reading/judging” people on there skull sizes but also bumps. It was very popular in the 1800’s. It made sense that women were dumb and weak because they had smaller skulls and so smaller Brains. Wow real science. Great video btw
All this for nothing. Pay a damn hooker and get laid.
Damn you Ollie, you silver tongued bastard.
Well I feel better about myself as down as i get I’ve never played the world for my character flaws.
This was my first contrapoints video! Feels good coming back to where I started the ride, especially after spending a week becoming a philosophy tube stan; made the intro a really neat treat!
The Inherent eroticism of the sea....and SUBSCRIBE
I'm probably on the complete opposite of the social/political spectrum of beliefs from you, but excellent video. You really helped me understand them, and I think you gave an insightful and non-mocking view of these people.
I'm in love with youuuuu <3 Greetings from Argentina
Proper men’s rights activist are way nicer than these Incels and having the same name as them brings down our reputation and slows the progress to gender equality on both sides. I like to think the argument isn’t about who is most oppressed but how we can all stop it.
they find comfort in misery because when our brains come in contact with something familiar, they like it. So when misery is familiar, you have to have a certain amount of willpower in order to resist it to start being happy. Aka these people have incredibly weak wills.
Her voice reminds me of James Charles
Best 35 minutes and 4 seconds of my life
hearing olly read all the stuff is.... interesting
Wait does that mean there's a transman version of /TTTT.
Thats so sad ... that sounds like they paint their world, like a pop culture movie, where women are a piece of reward for the handsome & "ultra masculine" guys. Convincing each other that their worldview is correct and blocking everything from the ouside.  Oh that remainds me of a story: A "girl pal" of mine once gave a Q&A sex&gender lesson for 15y/o boys, where they could ask what girls want, why sexuall assault is bad and so on~ But the "ultra masculine" boys where much more interested in bragging about how they gonna mate, how girls are stupid and how you must be very carefull because "a girls vagina is like a labyrinth. My (male)cousin once told me that!"  Nice lighting btw.
Thank you for introducing me to the the 'catastrophizing'. I've always had problems with this and  it's good to learn an actual term to look up about or say 'shut the fuck up brain, you're catastrophizing againg'. So cheers.
Okay youtube I watched it stop recommending it to me
After having looked up the "Imagine how a woman feels" reddit post, the bleeps are even more amusing.
Thought this was an asmr video... i was wrong
You arent a woman though
Imo your face looks super feminine already, wouldn’t have guessed you were trans until you mentioned it tbh
How is Jordan Peterson a "sexist old man"? He's definitely not sexist, and his age and gender have nothing to do with his arguments, you 'stupid-young-female.'
“Ultra masculinity bread scientist” this world is so fucked up
Christ, so many fucking losers, duhhhh can't get laid. There is no such thing as a successful, or physically healthy man, that can't find someone to fuck. Cunts mad that they can't fuck a decent bird while working at mcdonalds.
Is this real
Incels believe that women have all the luck  and advantages in society. They believe that men are considered disposable and that's all the women's fault for not getting them laid. They just can't accept that women are their own people with the choice to not fuck them. They wanna believe we are happier to be their slaves.
Why do incels demonize women for not giving empathy to their rapist and murderous kind, but they would never give any empathy to raped feminists because of how "annoying" feminists can be? Their kind makes me sick with their hypocrisy. 🤢🤮
Incels are just... The stupidest thing in the world this side of flat-eathers and anti-vaxxers. Yes, you're lonely not because you're unlikeable or entitled and think you're owed pussy and worship, but because all women want brainless sexual assaulters and your SKULL is just an inch or so off. Tossers...
His lady voice is hilarious. I'd love to take you seriously, but it's like listening to a clown teach a class on economics.
Them chads with the F u C K a b L e   s K U l L S
We still Stan pansexual Natalie
I would listen to a twenty minute video of you clicking a skull and whispering.
Natalie, I am most perplexed by you. You appear to have it all - intelligence, beauty, poise, stature and humor, making you extremely attractive to someone like me (str8 brilliant, tall, athletic male). However, I've seen somewhere else that you claim terrible body dysmorphia issues. And furthermore, you're actually a boy (not that there's anything wrong with that).  Now the part that I find most puzzling is not your gender identity (which is irrelevant for me because you're too young for me anyway), but your dysmorphia issues. From my perspective, whatever sense of horror you felt by your body issues, you've addressed stunningly.   Seriously, the first video of yours I saw you appeared very low-key, without the garish makeup. And I was literally stunned by the qualities I observed (as I listed above). Now, I wasn't disappointed when I subsequently ascertained your gender identity because you were as an abstraction as far as being a person with whom I could have a direct personal relationship. Nonetheless, I was very impressed by someone so obviously young.  Now, I believe you when you say you have dysmorphia issues. I have no reason to doubt that you can properly assess your own situation better than I. I will say, for what it's worth, that you are a beautiful, attractive, desirable _lady._
I'm sorry...but I'm thinking these are just mentally ill people. I would probably be considered a Chad...or more like a Tyrone. But I'm single! I don't WANT to be, but I am! I know a LOT of old fat balding dudes who have women!! No I'm not personally hating on them...just saying that if THEY can get women...anyone can!! You incels need to stop fucking rejecting advice and pay fucking attention!! Seriously...you can't get money advice from a poor guy! If you think your looks are lacking, maximize other aspects of yourself. You never know WHAT a woman is going to like! Keep playing the game and keep trying! Rule number one...you will NEVER get a woman if you hate on women!!!
This was a great video. I was hesitant to watch it because it’s so long, but it was so informative and interesting. Thanks for taking the time to produce it so well.
I respect anyone who gets help and escape from this sad mindset, but those that don't want help and actually hurts women or men can go fuck themselves
HAPPY 2,000,000th view!!!
The inherent eroticism of the sea..mm yeah takememommy
👌This is great format, you learn, you laugh and at times are like oh shit we humans are fucked. Like the clor pallet used for the video. First time viewer, gonna check out more content.
incels are funny but like they arent it is literally scary and so damaging omg i love the term chad it is like my favourite thing tho
Weird I got a friend who WAS an incel. His grandfather BET him actual $ that he'd meet and marry his ideal woman by age X. I remember going with my buddy to HAPPILY PAY his grandpa right before his wedding. He'd found the girl, the redhead his grandfather bet him he'd find, not only that, but he had given up, so she (the redhead) literally trapped him in a room, just the two of them, refused to let him go until he admitted he was in a relationship. He was on cloud nine that day, and over 20 years later, they're still married! Incels are losers who didn't have the right grandfathers.
This video was full of GOLD. Subscribed. x
28:50 It's called a meme (the original meaning), an idea that passes from mind to mind and feeds on constant reinforcement. Dangerous things. Very hard to get rid of.
If everyone is beautiful then no one will be.
I hate this video. As an autistic teenager I not only am likely to be a mentalcel but also a friendcel as well moving into later stages of my life. This video does nothing to address this
I have an incel joke    Why did the incel stopped following Stacey?    She went for Chad in Africa
this is a brilliant video!
Incels were put on this Earth by God for us to hunt and consume when our capitalist society inevitably implodes and dies. Checkmate, liberals.
Пацаны, девка что надо.
Why don’t they all just fuck each other, though?
I wonder what Incels think about Asexuals :/
why is cooking not masculine? i mean, i AM gay, but i like to think im sorta masculine
oof can i just say wow you pass really well you're really pretty tooo i literally wouldn't have even guessed you were trans till you said it also looove your content keep it up :)
What are your future plans? You’re unbelievably talented. Your style is so unique. You bring a level of nuance that quite frankly DOESN’T EXIST anywhere else. What’s in the works? I think you should host the fucking daily show!
7:29 Carlos Chavez omg.
Lol it’s storming pretty bad right now, I’m thinking about the inherent eroticism of the water cycle
Completely off the main topic, but I love your voice. I have similar timbre to you, so I'm biased, but I don't care.
Your existence alone is an argument against transphobia.
Ahem, and what exactly is wrong with Soviet nomenclature? Typical ignorant and bigoted LBGT trash.
well, what a great video! You speak so well, it was a conforting experience. Thanks for the content
WTF kind of porn was that
Tinder becomes great when you just use it for shitposting.
This video resonated deeply Contra, I would love a conversation with you one day. Here's a nice long real story for you guys.   As a 21 year old guy, I have been in a relationship since I was 14 with a beautiful girl I loved more than anything.    Well we split up a day before my 20th birthday due to some incredibly sad circumstances - many, after great and painful self introspection because I was a crazed, right wing idiot. The other circumstances, her dad got incredibly ill suddenly, having to endure chronic, razor sharp pain for the best part of 6 months.  Seeing this incredibly strong, jocular man reduced to skin and bone was more then living hell. She got very depressed and I had to help her and the family sustain, look after a 7 year old boy, a new puppy whom was riotous as hell (5 mile walks every day on top of college, work and my own family responsibilities.)    The weight was too much to bear for us and with my own character defects, our relationship imploded in on itself, and after a month we tried to get back together and in a really tense meeting at a pub, I digged out of her she had sex with another man. I could explain so many facets of her personality, mine, our sex life, the conversation in the pub and how her words made me feel like I was sliced in the gut in miraculous detail but it brings up so much pain.   We split up and I'd soon discovered Roosh V and the red pill community. I first heard of him when I was 14 and in a literature quote thread on /lit/ his quote 'brevity is the glow of clits,' came up. It made me laugh then and I wanted to read about the guy, and he is genuinely an entertaining, intelligent dude with great stories (and creepy ones) with women, travelling and life in general. Among all the nihilistic as fuck philosophy (which believe me, I was incredibly nihilistic) there are some really great insights - and for a young man who hasn't really lived much of a life, a maverick introvert with explosive manic tendencies to boot, who has gone through all this excruciatingly pain events, I lapped up alot of what he said. As Kirkegaard said, if you view someone as a god they can easily become the devil, and for me knowing this girl who I thought I was going to marry fuck another guy after being apart for so short a time frame, Roosh and the red pill community gave me answers to my shattered masculinity and dwindling sense of purpose in the world.   Well anyway, that all happened a year and a half ago. I worked in a call centre for a while, went travelling and now started studying English Literature at a university. For a year after the breakup, I understandably didn't get laid - and I met some beautiful women who really liked me, but I didn't want them to get close. There's no such thing as a 'healthy relationship,' I was Romeo and experienced peak romantic obsession and woe, and anyways, all women are hypergamous sluts right. It took travelling around south east Asia for 2 months with only a rucksack and Walt Whitman's 'Leaves of Grass,' to keep me company on the lonely times of solo adventure when I wasn't with the many beautiful people I met travelling.    If any incels read this so far, I just want to let you know you can get out. The term Contra used here 'epistemological masochism,' absolutely blew my mind away. I have a masochist streak and this really made me inquire into my mode of thinking and what I view. You really do internalize everything all art, philosophy etc you consume, and when you're a flawed human being you may be innocuous to the sheer cancer and radioactivity of the philosophy you expose yourself to. I think another reason this stuff is so appealing, as a natural skeptic and someone asks why, these guys are so counter culture and ask alot of questions which really does engage you, and goes to the root of your own issues in life. Being absolutely alone and sexless really is fucking painful, at least these guy challenge the issue head on. I wasn't nodding my head at every turn and realized very quickly there's alot of bullshit in this community, but ideas like tackling what pua's called approach anxiety, expounding upon the virtues of stoic masculinity and some of the science behind attraction is interesting, and can be useful.    I'm definitely work in progress, but I was only an incel for a year. I am a good looking, athletic person but this shit for most people is a mindset, not a looks issue. I stopped reading the manosphere shit about 5 months ago now, and I've gotten laid. It was a sloppy, highly enjoyable one night stand, but I owe that to my increased happiness and ever evolving outlook. Oh, and the girl definitely had something for rock guys - I was wearing a black sabbath shirt and  she dug it, I went back to her house and the walls were covered in Zeppelin, Bowie, Doors posters, you name it.   I know this reads like a gay ass Tumblr post and like two people will read it because Youtube will put it to the bottom, but I save this shit on my PC for my own psychological maintenance too, lmao. Thanks again Contra this provided great insight and I know you said you only want to understand incels, but the compassion you emanate is palpable. It helped me out (although I'm not entrenched in such a world view anymore, I'm recovering) and I'm sure many other. Any guys, read Models by Mark Manson. And wear Black Sabbath shirts at the club for a good time, lol.
Seeing the baking guy, it sometimes seems the strength of a man's masculinity is inverse to the number of times he refers to it in a time frame of ten to thirty seconds.
What it really comes down to is confidence. Obviously some people are genetically more attractive but it does not mean ugly people cant find love. If you believe that you are ugly you become more ugly. You try less on your physical appearance and how you treat others. The only real difference between incels and these so called "chads" is a state of mind. These are people who have poor self esteem and justify it by saying that it's out of their control. They are not taking responsibility for their own actions. Like you cant get laid if you stay inside all day. Being ugly is not oppression it's an excuse.
that's why doctor Mew is the hero we need right now. Give these guys a proper chin, doctor! Save them! (and us from them)
I had something similar to the world view when I was around 10-12 when I’d seek out ableist and anti-autistic rhetoric actively. It ruined my mental health and still affects me at my current age of 15. Do not actively seek out any content that hurts you.
Really beyond a certain point hating them is better than fucking them . It's just less trouble . Women deserve to be hated for what they are if that means I don't get to be a disposable fuckboy . Don't bother me , the hatred is way more real the deep authentic ontology the bedrock of existence . The fucking bone record it's self !  whole of the incel problem solved in a nutshell . Now all I gotta do is live like a Hermit Zen Nazi for the rest of my life . Bliss . So really Incel which was such a controversy a cultural moment is actually old news at least for me. Really behind the  now totally dead cunt obsessions lies the real fear , the denial of death and the fact that you are alone . one . That's your real problem not jerking off to porn . Women can never have never had any objective ontologically significance , other than as  their obvious function . The big mistake was that we humanised something that isn't actually really human or only half human. Wonder if Trannyism an obvious personality disorder not an identity is the way that self hating prototype incels and queers  displace their hatred and hated real  masculinity ? Nothing more hated and discriminated against than a white cock .Their couldn't be anything more false than a man impersonating a woman . You'd be better of thinking you were a cat or a tree . It's ontologically repellent . Or at best just a silly fetishism .
Some of tHe most intelligent POV’s heard in decades. May Gaia  keep you safe and talking! People are fucking brutal. BRUTAL! MFers!
Ew what an ugly specimen dont talk about us again, next
There are also incels like me who, instead of blaming women for not feeling attracted to us or for not recoprocating our romantic feelings to them (and even considering that feminism empowered women to "do this to you"), recognize that actually nature is to blame for making women unable to feel attracted to us or to reciprocate our feelings to them (so Elliot Rodger and Alek Minassian were wrong when blaming women for their lack of even romantic experience). Oh, and mainstream society may be to blame too for insisting on fruitlessly trying to make women feel attracted to us by our romantic feelings to them, because those tries have no chance to succeed in changing human nature.
With dropping testosterone levels ,expect more changes in number of , and shape of mens jaw lines. Incels- Ive had two wives and 3 daughters, know when your well off, buy a robot. Better yet, form a club ,and build your own.(you know you can)
I’m coming from the debate with Blair White and can I say I love that not only have you become more you but you’ve also gotten just all around better like I’m sorry but your wig in the debate was very unflattering to your facial features and made your head look tiny where as now you look fantastic you got the glow up we all want in life i just want to say thank you for becoming who you are and not being afraid to show yourself even in the awkward stages of life
Contrapoints is a man
Instant sub for making storms even sexier.
Bad bones feelsbadman. Lost it at 3:04
This was fucking amazing and heartbreaking. The part about self loathing and purposely hurting yourself because it feels good and true in this twisted way hit so close to home.
If only Muslims got the same treatment as incels
I came here because of the interview on Vice. I stayed (subscribed) because it's entertaining and educational. Like Sesame Street minus the horrible looking muppets.
I GOTTA GET MY HETERO ON
KKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKK
Instant suuuub! You're awesome and I love the content you're making!
I'm scared that people might see me as a woman hater or an incel because I don't date and I don't even really interact with women.  I avoid even looking at women in public because I don't want to to seem creepy or intrusive. Even though I'm hetero I do not have any desire to pursue relationships or sex, I am focusing on my career.  I have had chances before, I turned down every woman who showed interest in me because I just don't like talking to women at all.
You are awesome and your perspective is so positive, intelligent and insightful. The world needs so much more of this type of voice.
man, this is... heartbreaking. i came into this expecting to laugh/be disgusted, but instead there's so much needless sadness and despair here. entire college courses could be taught about this. i know gender is important to a lot of people, but god, it does so much more harm than good in my opinion. not to mention the emphasis placed on the importance of sex and romance. there's more (and i'd argue, better) things to life! your worth isn't determined at. all. by who you are/aren't in any sort of relationship with. people are inherently worthy of happiness, so long as it doesn't come from hurting others/yourself, just by existing.   as someone that struggles with mental illness, this hits especially hard. i hate the stigmatization of men talking about their feelings/being vulnerable/imperfect that occurs under patriarchy. i hate that it is LITERALLY deadly. and i especially hate how the internet fuels it. i've been thinking a lot lately about how i interact with the internet, and how i can more healthily do so, and this video has at least inspired me to delete tinder. thank you for being so thorough and empathetic, and for conducting research that i imagine was really distressing and triggering. u a real one
Just supporting you with a little comment <3
Mmm.... the eroticism of the sea..
Jorgen Peterson isn't a sexist fucktard lol, what? What exactly has he said that's sexist? And on a side note, one day you'll be old too tranny and considering you guys have around a 41-46% suicide rate I'd think you'd have some respect for the old bro's walking around. Cause you know...they're actually still walking around. Not dead.
It took me a long time to watch this because I didn't want to be sad about incels, but I absolutely fell in love with you. And, this was a strangely compassionate way to look at this issue, even if your sympathy runs dry at certain points.
Wow! I just heard about you on Vice News and decided to look at a random video of yours. You are BRILLIANT!
should be mentioned that alot of these forums are considered "containment". however you will notice that many of these dogmas have seeped into everyday conversation. You address the problem pretty well, but the solution-to avoid places like that is not a good solution.  I think the best advice is to take these things with a grain of salt acknowledge their pain, and admit you don't have a solution for them, but you are with them in this thing called life, and we do care about you. we  just don't want to fuck you to prove it.
Bring back Rock n’ Roll
radio silence is the chick4chick dating app experience too
peak fragile masculinity is describing yourself as a "bread scientist". btw, will never not find it funny the way Natalie says it :) :) :) idek why it makes me laugh so hard it just makes me happy :)
Fuck you, your voice is gorgeous!  It deep and sexy like mine, and I born (AFAB) female.  Also, thunder storms are fucking hot and sexy.  x3
I don't even know how not to be cynical on the internet, but you are great, thanks!
You know, usually I don't get Internet stuff but I can at least begin to understand where it comes from. This I absolutely do not get. It's not even like, a self-help group. All they do is tell each other how ugly they are and how they'll never get a girlfriend and that's somehow... Other people's fault? Except it's not? *SOMEHOW*? Or is it. I don't fucking understand this movement at all. This seems more like a troll movement that is trying to get them to kill themselves or something, ffs.
You are sosososo fucking dreamy and concise and amazing and this video gave me tingles
They also have a counterpart femcels. It's like nice guys and nice girls
I literally had no way of knowing you had been a man previously, you're so so beautiful, don't need any facial shaving for me 💕 keep preaching knowledge, beauty and creativity classical little queen 👸🏻
There was a period of about a week where I'd watch MGTOW videos, mostly comedians like Bill Burr making jokes about double-standards and such. The descriptions to the videos sometimes explained that MGTOW was just about men choosing not to marry, ignoring the notion that men are supposed to be breadwinners and husbands and nothing else, instead Going Their Own Way.    I was completely down with that idea, but then I scrolled down to the comments. Misogyny. *Misogyny everywhere.*   Then I noticed that other videos with 'MGTOW' in the title had needlessly aggressive titles like 'feminist bitch gets owned' and 'entitled female SHUT DOWN', and the picture started coming together.   That was when I took the Nope Train to Fuckthatville.
This is the first video I've watched from the channel and I am in love with this woman. That's skull tapping and whispering at about 22 minutes was heavenly asmr shit
I love this. So much.
Holy Shit your content is good... I finally came here after hearing Hugo & Jake sing your praises, and it was so worth it!
Not only is it okay to be a dude who likes to bake (i am one such dude), you don't even have to justify it with "its science!" You can just like making bread and treats bro.
Could not figure out who you reminded me of and it was driving me nuts. Finally figured it out. Winona Ryder! 😍😍
When you put ur pp in a femoid and ur skull changes shape like *vwhooooop*      Edit: please stop liking this its the worst comment I've ever posted I'm begging you
These nigguhs literally believe in phrenology
You're so pretty
Just as this is ridiculous, so are feminists who don't adhere to what I've been told is "feminist scholarship". There are so many videos on YouTube itself, I'd like to see a video directing modern feminism.
I love the "hypergamy" argument SO MUCH. I dont think I've ever seen an ugly woman with a drop dead gorgeous man. In fact, 90% of the time, the woman is way out of the guy's league. Maybe the incels should try showering????
i decided to check this channel out because i saw comments about it in lindsay's last transformers video and i was  not prepared  for the first 90 seconds of this video.  consider me hooked
I'm bigoted against trans people.  Not, to the level that I'm going to hurt anyone but bigoted nevertheless.  This video has made me 10% less bigoted just by the nature of your likability.
Just came across your channel.  You are awesome!
God damn you're good at youtubing. i wish I met you while you were still unknown enough to be my bud... from a gay dude into gay dudes and a total chad....
The "i'm so sorry" star XD. I'm ded. I feel like these should replace participation awards.  Also, less funny, the hope cell. :( now I'm sad
Great video. Thank you!💕
Fuck this shit, now I'm aroused but waves and salty water.
well damn, now i'm gonna go fuck the ocean.
💘💘💘💘💘💘💘💘💘💘💘💘💘💘💘💘💘💘💘💘💘💘💘💘💘💘
Incel means a person who couldn't get a girl and at the end became the girl himself lel
A lot of them aren't even involuntary not having sex, I've looked through incel forms and found so many of them basically being like, "Life is so unfair, no attractive women want to have sex with me, only ugly ones have tried, why do pretty women have to have such high standards" and "I could just meet with some girl on tinder but that's not good enough" Like you could literally go up to an incel and beg them for sex, and then they'll refuse while still calling themselves incels and complaining that no one will have sex with them. A lot of them could easily have sex if they could but choose not to so they can complain about it for some reason. They decide "I can't have sex with a woman, it will never happen" not the women they're meeting, them.
I did like the roastie term im gonna hold that one because I have witnesses the roast beef it is gross. Not an incel but can sympathize.
I love the way you ended the video. Really speaks to me as an asexual female. The idea that people can't be happy without sex is absurd. I wasn't born with a dick in me, when we're children we are happy and ignorant of sex. How many children are crying because they haven't had sex? None! Why? Because their endless curiosity of the world is all they need.  One might say we're born asexual but forget how to be.
I can't stop laughing
Your videos are so well produced... I'm in awe!
I think people have lost the idea of what it means to act decently and think well of others you haven't met. I am in a demographic that could fall into an "incel" definition if I wanted to be like that, but the reason I find their arguments irrational and reprehensible is because of the treatment it means they give to others. They act like a transgender person is an awful human being, despite never having met you personally (sorry for lack of a better example). I don't know much about transgender terms or even what it is really about, but I would never view someone who is transgender as less than a person, or the problem with society. A position of respect for differing views while politely disagreeing with someone provides a good middle ground, and one that incels seem to think is impossible to achieve. I hope that someone who can be seen as understandable by incels can bring them out of this mindset to prevent people like Elliot Rodgers from emerging within the incel rank and file.
Dam some gals don’t even like men @incels
The first time I was ever turned on by the sea 🌊
Reading all the names was quite entertaining, especially "Anxious Butthole"
Hey, I just discovered your youtube channel and I love it. Great video!
whats the title song??
I love everything about this video from the aestheticism and how beautiful you are to the well researched and presented content to the eroticism of the sea
Subbed!
i don't know why 'the inherent eroticism of the sea' fucking killed me but i just need you to know i actively fell off my chair.
What do incels do when they get complimented on their appearance/insecurity by someone they find attractive? I'm genuinely curious about this
Keep the content coming, incels. Queen Contra is waiting
You don't give a fuck. You don't care, and don't pretend like you do. You ride the dick carousel by choice, and you've the nerve to talk about people whose perspective you haven't a slightest hope to understand.
Girl your style and demeanor is really attractive 😍 *I know she is a trans woman
I've ironically started using the word femoid and I'm starting to worry that people'll think I'm an Incel
I think this video would have been good if you actually showed that some of these incel claims are backed statistically and explored the implications of the small truths to their tales. For example,  according to dating app studies, you can find that women rate just 10% of men above average in attractiveness while men rate 50% of women in the same capacity.
There are a LOT of incels replying to this but only through comment replies, and they seriously don't sound like they watched the video or learned anything from it and that sucked. Guys please I get it, I'm an autistic lesbian I often find myself unlovable but yknow it has been easier and A LOT more fun ever since I started working everyday to fight my depression and taking meds and stuff, not fueling my suicidal wishes has done me some good and I've become a lot more confident and well maybe I won't score a girlfriend  just yet but life is so much better and it's really worth it!!!! Please stop being douchebags to women and get out of 4chan for your own sakes and the sake of others
"A bottomless curse, a bottomless sea, accepting of all that there is and can be."
"Get off sites like reddit and 4chan" is good advice for anyone, really
God I hate Olly.  He's fucking annoying and his acting is so cringey.
Don’t get any facial surgery... I think your breathtakingly beautiful. 😢❤️ Ps I’m a depressed heterosexual incel.. I love women but I’ve been morbidly obese all my life... 😞 It hurts a lot.
I like you. You're the only trans person on the internet I've seen that is capable of complex independent thought. Also, you mock things I like in an entertaining fashion.    Yours sincerely, A Bread Scientist.
0:00-1:25 This is _not_ my Olly
Serena Williams is a woman with the skull of a man so there's hope.
First 2 M views video incoming!
I give up on women.  Might as well fuck Cuntra Points.
why is this in my suggested vids?
The opening makes me uncomfortable.
this is hilarious
your make up is on point and I love the lighting and this video is so interesting, no hun, genguinly you're amazing :)
Isn’t it funny how these people name their misogynistic theory after a phrase from a movie created by two trans women 🤔
6:35 lowkey asmr  EDIT: 22:26 and the other shoe drops XD
My husband's name is Chad, and he's so mad his name has been hijacked by this weird male movement.  I, on the other hand, can't stop laughing. LOL 🤣 🤣
Hey nerds. Check out Orthotropics.
32:42 “hi stacy, it’s *tracy* “ i feel like this joke wasn’t appreciated enough
Super informative, and, entertaining. New sub! :)
As a woman who stays single for almost my 30 years of life, I get them. It’s sad that they can’t make peace with that. I already dreamed of my retirement with 2 cats and 1 dog. Nothing wrong with giving romantic life up. But if you really don’t happy, please try something.
I can't believe I actually just got turned on by nature
are you going to fuck the ocean?
Jordan Peterson isn’t sexist lmao  btw i love the makeup!!! you’re so classy and i love your whole channel so far!
The intro made me feel raped
Did anyone else get stuck on 20:12 wondering what "tall dick" has to do with anything and why "no"? Seriously, I just spent the last 5 minutes on this before I finally put the # in context with the words spoken.
This (incels) is remarkably sad on so many  levels...
Incel CHUD:"We need sexual Marxism!"  Normal Person:"What about economic marxisms?" Incel CHUD:"Uhhhh, uhhh, uuuuhhhhhhh."
I rly kinda liked that poem (& had no problem at all w/ the p*ssy stuff)!
So glad I'm a lesbian
I really liked the lakey inspired song in the intro but I can't find it. Anyone got a link?
I love this video, I've watched it eight times. I still lose today's discourse, every time though. Could someone clue me in, please? I'd appreciate it.
Hey Contrapoints! If I could ask, what do Incels thinks of gay people (both gay men to lesbians).  Are they Normies? Or Chads?
incels are entitled and unreasonable bastards. they think not getting a date is as painful as rape, and they feel justified to kill women for not dating them. all they do is feel sorry for themselves after harming other people, because they think their feelings triumphs others safety.
I love this video. I legit thought I was unlovable by women for most of my life. It wasn't until I met a girl who was sympathetic to my plight  that I learned to love myself. There is someone for everyone.  But it does some change on our parts. I need to learn to be less of a jackass, be more sypmathetic, and accept that she loves me for I am,  and not who I would try to be. Just know that coming from a big fat nerd, everyone is desirable to someone.
First time viewer, very impressed. I'm Canadian (from Toronto, not Letterkenny) but live in Denver, and maybe I'm a conservative Democrat, if anything, in this -insane- American political spectrum. Thanks for speaking clearly on these difficult topics in an era no one wants to learn a damn thing.
Self loathing is the seasoning for the rage and the rage is sustenance for the Righteous....
Black guy here,....Oh that's it, I was just VirtHUE signaling...
But I FUCKS WITH BAKING tho!
I don't need the theatre but otherwise interesting and great content.
This was a great video. Very entertaining and informative. Thank you...watched all 35 minutes of it
I  don't  know  why  it  took  me  so  long  to  watch  your  videos.  Instant  fan.
I just realized that ex1urbia and ContraPoints are philosophy degree holders. Wouldn't it be great to get them together? Imagine the videos they could make!
She told incels to get into the sea at the end there!
The bleeps just really sell it for me ihbjkbjkhiov
"no woman has such big skull" the fuck they speaking imma cis woman and i get stuck in hoodies lmao
parts of this video were serious asmr
*Cue Rant*  The last parts of this video hit unfortunately close to home. You see, around half a year ago (although I did know know of ContraPoints then), in the midst of my regular aimless internet browsing, I came across a link to a subreddit that you have likely heard of. Egg_irl. The things I found there were disturbingly relateable to me, and I began to wonder. I did not know very much about trans people before this event, so my bigoted views did not help much. But as I became more informed, thus came the inevitable stage of Questioning. It hurt. Everytime I searched for more information, I was engaging in what Contra calls “Masochistic Epistemology”, cutting away the lies to see the truth. Eventurlly I made a mistake, late one night went to the subreddit gender critical. (don't go there) After I nearly had a mental breakdown, I realised that somethings were poison to the mind. I called these Memetic Effects to myself, taken from the SCP community. Eventully I came to the belief that I am not trans. I do not know if this is true, but I dont have the mental state to question right now. I think that watching ContraPoints is just yet another form of Masochistic Epistemology that I am subjecting myself to. I haven’t really ever had a goal for my life. Perhaps I am too young to have found one. So I always told myself that my number one goal was to not die. I still dont. But living in this world hurts so much, that I dont know how long I can last. That sounds stupid and edgy, and it is. Why do I feel unhappy? I know I dont have any friends, but I never really talked to people before and I didn’t feel bad. Why even when I do things that make me feel happy, I still feel this pain in my chest when I try to sleep. I dont know. Its so stupid. I probably shouldn't have written this.
honestly, i wouldnt be surprised if a lot of the observations about women they talk about arent totally false... with one cavet, its mostly conservative women. and these are the women that surround them. from there, they just extrapolate like idiots. those same women also fill them with ideological garbage that benefit them. this garbage feeds into itself and leads to incels.
There is a big difference between incels and wizards Wizards came up with many of the words and memes incels appropriated,. If the video were more well researched the more interesting topic would have been on the distinction between wizards and incels
5:09 this is some national geographic shit, almost died lol.
I promise I listen/watch for the content and not the visual aspect but really, I get distracted sometimes by how beautiful and smart you are. I also appreciate that though your videos are biased towards my views, the information is generally compassionate to varying degrees instead of polarising/inflammatory.  Thank you <3
M A S O C H I S T I C   E P I S T E M O L O G Y  It has a name! THANK YOU! This is the first video of yours I've seen, and the first time I've seen this particular phrase. It clicked in me so hard I think my neck just cracked.This is why I feel the need to shield myself from the toxic cesspits that pop up on the internet. Because I'm afraid that maybe it doesn't hurt because it's evil. Maybe it hurts, because it's true.This will be most useful.
B  O  N  E    S  T  R  U  C  T  U  R  E
I couldn't watch more than a minute of this at a time, due to cringing so hard. And part of that's because there have been bits of my life where I was feeling angry at the world and disenfranchised, and I wonder if things had gone a little differently, I could have become one of these guys while never quite realising how effed-up my outlook was becoming. As well as that, it makes me think twice about the culture of misanthropy and self-deprecation that seems to pervade so much of modern life in general and  geeky culture in particular.
Ollie does sleazy American Joe *really*  well.
Holy shit, it just occurred to me that you don't actually counter their argument. You don't even seem to disagree. You just tell them to go fuck the ocean. What if someone wants real help?
The thing I find so amusing is that they put so much value on loosing their virginity as if it's going to save them. When I lost my virginity it was awkward, anxious and over faaaaar too quickly, how would they rationalize that in their heads?
"If you believe a certain race is intellectually inferior, you can justify your belief by pointing to the shape of a skull, and say well thats the reason why".   Nobody says this, and it canot be justified that way. What you said is not "the reason why" and nobody believes that is the reason why there is intellectual superiority. The reason to why people believe it is due to the IQ studies done on adopted children and on different demographies around the world. The same reason the military doesn't let in people with less than IQ83. The skulls are sometimes different for different races and most often do not have a significant functional relevance.  Sorry, I just had to correct you on that. I hope you don't mind.
I have endless praise: this was well researched, constantly interesting, and used technical jargon.  Everything I love in a video. Ez Sub.
If I could I'd give this video a million likes
my hubby looks like the king of the incels lmao but i still love him to death....here's a wake up cue, incels, most women think like me too, we fall in love because of the person, not because we're all only after dat dick
I wanna shoot the editor for beeping mad fucking loud for no reason
Why does YouTube keep showing me this shit I watched Incel shit laughed cringed and moved on but they wanna bring me back to this
Far, far superior to this ContraPoints piece of shit: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MoqOm_EVR_g
Getting laid, or one night stands every day, will never be compared to having a meaningful stable romantic relationship that could lead to marriage, where you're going to get laid, but with someone you love that will stay with you, not caring how old or fat you could get, but for you; for who you are in heart and soul.
I feel bad for incels up to a point. I'm 21 and a *vIrGiN* which is just fine with me but I can understand how they think no one likes them. I just don't understand why they have to blame woman and attractive people for their problems
This explains where the Youtubers that Shaun takes down come from.
Lack of confidence will strike any good trait dead. Good looks, money, hight, athleticism, ect is all worthless if someone is going to act like a insecure asshat.
The thing about searching for harmful comments, I think it has something to do with Being Right, too - rather enlightened than a fool. You have some idea (or an insecurity...) that you might not consciously think about like, "this is true" or "this is false" because asking these questions are just.. hard. So you push them out of the way but your brain decides that they're true - without consulting itself first, of course - and then you end up wanting to be validated and be right about things. It's better to "realize a truth" than to "falsely inflate" yourself with any worth. There's more security there. Just an idea, I'm not educated or anything
This is the funniest video i've seen since i watched that nakeyjakey video
These ASSHOLES care enuogh about my PUSSY to be DICKS crying!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
You know, i am somewhat of a bread scientiest myself!
I thought you were were a biological woman when I first saw you.
by far the most delectable content I have had the pleasure of having in my reccomend page
I wonder how incessant etc. explain lesbians... I mean probably with a lot of hatred but I find their fucked up logic horrific and fascinating (like watching a car crash)
The internet is a strange monster that has had so many unintended consequences. At one point it was about exchange of information or how amazing it was to communicate with people on the other side of the world and now hidden in the corners are sadboi suicide cults who read the same weird shit everyday until they internalise it.   You can just go do literally anything else but this is how people spend their days.
What the fuck did I just watch?
This was an excellent video on so many aspects. Thank you for quality content.
gon' be straight with you, if you made asmr i would watch it
Femoid?!! WTF? It sounds like a female sex-robot.
Incels are terrible cunts
Masochistic Epistemology is the best fucking term I've heard in a while. Sick video.
"Tracy" hahahaaha! I see what you did there! Youre also hot af, if youre looking for some 5th base, hmu ;)
Any trans woman who is worried about a big head should take a look at Minnie Driver. You are fine. You are lovely.  You look like Winona Ryder.  Please leave your skull alone.
Alpha cock carousal would be a great name for band.
14:35 The whole mentality reminds me of Japanese kamikaze pilots in 1944-45 - the war is lost, the fleet is mostly sunk, the Americans are coming at Japan full bore, surrender is discouraged by the officers and military custom, so why not (as a trainee or new pilot) sign up with these suicide squadrons and crash obsolete Zero fighters and other "war-weary" airplanes into American ships? The nihilism is grotesque in both cases, but with the Incels, they are indoctrinating themselves; the Japanese had to write a manual for their pilots, come up with rituals, make it seem worthwhile.
Some of that Incel lingo sound like Nadsat.
My poor trans man brain screams for freedom from the incels that think I can sympathise with them.
Yes girl! I love the sea! Hot!
Thank you for your well-researched, courageous and compassionate take on incels!
I remember a strange and mystical time when redpill/incel/pua boards on reddit were a largely wholesome place for a young and sexually confused cis guy to find useful information on male self-improvement, how to socialize with others - including women obv, physical fitness, and overcoming your insecurities and personal self-loathing. The place I first read a post about how it doesn't necessarily matter how you be a man, more that you do it with confidence, railing against ideas about black coffee and disgusting alcohol and dirt tobacco as being a path to manliness but instead encouraging people to just do everything with confidence and tact. Where hating women was seen as unproductive to the goal of becoming a better man less anxious and inept around the opposite sex.  God-fucking-Christ am I glad I got out when I did and felt I had learned all I needed to know before I ever saw this stuff become mainstream. It's like remembering a time when "Alt-Right" meant mostly harmless monarchists and religious traditionalists instead of goose-steppers.  So glad I got myself Left before then.
33:47     You took me back to the day a typically *_massive_* south Florida thunderstorm cleared out downtown and I had sex in a fountain...   good times  :)
Frighteningly though, there are many more Male Supremacist Groups than just the INCELS.  There’s MGTOW, Return of Kings { the leader of this one is Seriously Trying to get Rape on Private Property, Made LEGAL!}, A Voice For Men {now this one wants to bring back Wife Discipline And Do Away With Spousal Rape},  the Red Pill Group {Which for whatever religious ideological reasons, actually has female members}. There are more popping up almost Daily on reddit & 4chan....Hell, there’s even a Women Against Feminism Group!!!
I fucked a storm once and I caught the clap of thunder. Always wear a raincoat folks!
That opening had me on the damn floor.🤣🤣🤣🤣🤣🤣🤣🤣🤣
True story:   A doctor I was sent to by an insurance company to _”verify”_ my injury said I had the *_”physiognomy_* of an immature boy” in his report...   I had to look it up, it’s the Aristotelian (maybe not him but around then and there) pseudoscience that the shape of a person’s face (what it resembled, a shared trait) determined their character.   The last people to bring physiognomy up were in Germany in the 20th century...
I know you posted this a while ago - but I just wanted to say TY (I’m a woman)  for sharing this - and not trying to be creepy or anything but I think you’re really pretty
If people with only one shape of skull were ever able to reproduce, wouldn't everyone have that type of skull?
18:41 I'm dumb and not american, what's the problematic thing here? "Just" the usage of the word tran?
I never wanted to fuck the sea as much as I do now thank you
Lads, all you have to do is talk to a lesbian about her straight female friends and you will know that the 80/20 rule is bullshit. Uglies get love all the time
Wow creepy...
Just discovered your channel and I'm already in love
“You have a fuckable skull” is now my favorite compliment
I thought this was going to be a long video goofing at incel comments, but it’s actually pretty neat and made me think deeply about myself. Great video, I’m impressed!
You!   You are fucking brilliant ♥♥♥
OMG this is much better when high. luv her
hit subscribe to have never heard a song in  your entire life
I lost my virginity at 20 years old. At school nobody liked me, but at my work I was quite popular and the first woman that ever gave me a chance even called me her soulmate. I remember the extreme shame I felt about it, I would probably try to punch anyone that would mention that I was still a virgin at 20 years old and those guys just talk openly about it in the most shameful way possible. But I lived before internet in my city, so at that time people felt far less entitled to anything, they didn't have forums to find frustrated people that have things in common to them to devise theories about how what they suffer is the blame of others. Still I can have a glimpse about how they feel, because I remember thinking I was worthless and should die, but first find a job, get a degree, improve your life and be independent before giving into despair, there is such a big chance that outside high school women will see you in such a better light. Teens judge their lives in how they can socialize at school, and schools are a terrible environment, it's not how responsible adults will treat you later.
You are very beautiful.
OH GOD, as a Texan, I use hun all the time. So if I call a fellow crossdresser or transwoman or whatever flavor of person born as a human male dressed as a human female hun I'm insulting them? that's horrible. Hun is like a huge part of my vocabulary. 'Round these parts "hun" is basically a pet name it's considered acceptable to call a woman who's name you don't know instead of "Lady" or "Ma'am" which always sound rude or formal. Like your waitress is always hun, and if you're female, your waitress calls you hun, and sometimes even if you're a guy. Hun in general isn't used in the sarcastic insulty way around here, so maybe it's just an internet thing as far as my home town is concerned?
17:50   .......don't cats have gend---NO SHUSH MISSING THE POINT
Does...do...did...did no one tell incels that prostitution is a thing? Like, there's no need to build an entire fragging world view on being a virgin,  just pay someone to pop your cherry and get on with your life.
I love your videos Contra! Keep up the good work
Who does the readings for these, lmfaooooo
Soooooooo the conclusion is to match delusional incels with delusional trans women?
I uhh...  I kinda really want to plan a beach trip now..
I was writing my screenplay for my movie and I don't know how the fuck I got here and I finish the video but this was very interesting topic.
GIRL WHERE YOU AT.  I keep seeing you pop up and it's never a new video. I'm thirsty.
Man fuck incels dude that’s whack
If I posted a picture of my face without make-up on the LGBT 4chan, I'm sure they would say I can't pass as a woman.  (I'm a cis-woman)
I want to tell incels that women have been known to make bad decisions. Even if the self loathing was valid there is still hope to get laid.
To be fair many PUAs see it as a phase and dedicate time to self improvement and learning about what makes and breaks relationships.
Please marry me
Hey. Don't know if that doubting part of your brain is still going, and I hope it's not, but this was the first video of yours I ever watched and I wouldn't have known you were trans if you didn't bring it up. You ARE gorgeous.
I’ve watched this at least 20 times and Abigail’s textcrawl makes me laugh every time.
your makeup is just gorgeous! also i had no idea about the word "hon" and i have a history of calling everyone that as a term of endearment so I will definitely watch myself in the future.
This is something I needed so badly! Thank you, subscribed. <3
You are incredibly beautiful.
holy shit. pure artistry. time to go watch every single video on this channel!
This video was a great reminder of how much progress I've made since I was younger. I was actually very close to becoming blackpilled without any sort of influence from these sorts of communities, and I'm glad to say I rebounded very strongly. Following her catastrophe list (30:38), I think the worst I got was somewhere between 5 and 6. I somewhat "hated women", but I would always stop it from solidifying because my female family members are too great. My hatred was reserved for the popular girls at my school, which was completely based on appearance. I'm happy to report that I'm keeping myself back at 1, and occasionally using 2 to justify improving my physical and social appearance. There will be a day where 1 is no longer there, but real progress takes time.
33:32 You weren't alive in 1975.
She called JP sexist.
i've been interested in the community for a bit. i appreciated this video particularly for the compassionate and yet no bullshit attitude it's all opened up with. much respect for the treatment of this topic by contra points. very rare to find.
I just wish they were able to watch this and really, truly listen and understand because you really are so good at explaining every single part of things
Oh no I can’t ever come back from this, I love rainstorms and large bodies of water now...  But its kind of melancholic isn’t it? Incel  communities will always exist, a place that doesn’t exactly welcome, but still draws “social outcast” in. These communities have become a toxic, and I mean toxic to the mind, and I think some people forget their minds are highly vulnerable. I’m not too knowledgeable about the incels, but it seems they do egg each other on as shown in the video,  it’s an endless repeating cycle until the original person is no more.  I can’t believe It took me 30 minutes to think this up, I need a life
......wait your 50?
Good work I like the video it reminds me of my friend who thought the same way as the Incels. He did meet some one he loved and got marred.  I hope you have a good one.
So are you genderfluid or female?
The focus on weak chins is interesting because I recently saw how you can change your jaw structure on your own into your 70s.  What you're exposed to certainly influences you day to day, I even notice it from the toxic politics my family and coworkers expose me to.
I would be considered a "mentalcel" because I'm schizoaffective and cannot hold a job to survive. I've never kissed, or fucked or held hands, and I constantly thank God (if hes real) that there are so many good women in my family to show me examples of great women. (Most of my painful memories are of women really making me want to die. Men have usually been sympathetic throughout my life, but that's my life experience)  I understand the suffering aspect, but what they say is just unacceptable. I also think attacking them is kicking a wounded and downed person,.however I understand how horrible it would be to a woman who finds out about these guys, their hate isn't unwarranted.  They need help, but they will not actively seek out help, instead they are congregating online, where everything is sickeningly distorted.  We need to encourage them to seek therapy, but they're so blackened by their predicament, they refuse and think all hope is lost.  Also, as a man, sex and companionship is most certainly a need, I know, I'm terribly lonely. Maybe women dont need no man, but men need women. Otherwise this can happen
My takeaway is that I want to fuck the shit out of the pacific RIGHT NOWWWW
This might me the greatest video I've ever seen on youtube.
one of the most entertaining and interesting women on youtube is in fact a man who thinks he's a woman - similar to how the best "women" in wrestling and contact sports are also men who think they are women. funny how that works huh contra
I thought the Chad's meme head was in the shape of the country Chad. Can't believe people actually talk about that seriously.
Just incredible. You are really cool
My brother was complaining about chads and i wanted to beat the shit out of him
actually based redpilled, blackpilled, bluepilled all at once
I don't feel bad for incels. I feel bad for the victims of their bigotry.
She's pretty cute I must admit. Wouldn't sleep with a transexual though. Just going to admire her pretty face from afar.
Lady you dont need that surgery your beautiful and clever and should be proud of both
I guess you could say "hoteps" are our black chads of color in the black community. It's like its own subcategory of "chad", because no one can chad harder than some white dudes. But I see her point, just thought I'd share some insight.
youre a man.
I've never heard of the term femoids, wtf
By the way, play more music innit. You're pretty good at Rocknroll ing... check out my humble self, old school w/o proper skills... You may be surprised...
Hey, you're looking beautiful these days, Natalie.
god im such a becky... i have brown hair and a backpack... what am i doing?
12:45 Imagine thinking that "women behaving how they want" is just the worst thing that could ever happen. Isn't that just an explicit admission that the goal is not getting laid, but controlling women and "putting them back in their natural place"?
As someone who is genuinely kind of grossed out by sex it's really easy to feel alienated and alone. I've only ever been on dates a handful of times in my life and honestly I only did for the same reason I bothered with going to college..because I thought I had to.
Wow, first video I see of you and I love it ❤
Impressive content ContraPoints: Did I just hear clips of Markiplier's voice at 15:56 - 16:14 along with some of his iconic creepy/horror atmospheric background music? Kick ass job on all the voice overs & love the new term Foppington's Law which can be officially searched on Urban Dictionary.  Clever, witty, humorous, engaging, classy & both visually and musically aesthetic appealing and stimulating.   Tips for Incels and all children: Mandatory tip when raising children. Start mewing (Look this up) early. It's free. Mewing naturally and non-surgically properly molds and aligns the skull of your face and your teeth over your growing years. I hope my message can save tons of children and some teens from inceldom.   General mental Illness prevention tips for incels and children: For mental illnesses, stop the harmful white lies and sabotaging your children's future of how truly painful, judgmental, toxic, rough and mean society can be. Children have less filter and are meaner than adults but generally give honest reactions and feedback. Teaching children how to properly face the truth and deal with them appropriately early on is an important survival skill in order for them to not develop toxic and destructive belief patterns later on in life that could range from mild to fatalistic results.
i just discovered you, but i think i'm in love. amazing video.
I can't help but laugh at how ridiculous these people are
I have a similar 'problem' that isn't really a problem, but I've internalized it as such (it was the first word to come to mind.) I'm an asexual man. That first speech about "Imagine" was super cringey to me. Sex is gross.  But I still desire companionship. I want to be loved. To be honest, I've accepted that I just won't find anyone. I think there's more to life, and I don't feel codependant, so I can't say I'm 'black-pilled', but dealing with the normal difficulties men face when dating, only to then explain that  I, genuinely, have no desire to Smash, well, why bother?  P.S: A Contrapoints on Asexuality would be appreciated.
I dont know this woman but she comes off as a bit self righteous and entitled. The way she portrays the manosphere is dishonest at best and a straw man at worst. With a cursory glance at her other videos she appears to be a Socialist Feminist, which by itself speaks volumes. This woman is very reminiscent of the smug cunts in high school who spent most of their time shitting on people who were less cool than them.
every time I come back to this video, my lifespan shortens a little.
Oh my god, his baking insecurities. That was the weakest thing I’d ever seen
What’s the problematic thing? That Baltimore is the world capital for STIs?
So incels need some cbt?
I believe there are only two genders. It's biology, male and female. If you want to live a male or female lifestyle then thats your choice as long as it does not infringe on anyone else's freedom (like forcing your sexual views on others..yuck ). I like this part though. 33:42 this is a well thought out and precisely put together video. Well done.
Your final few words aroused me not in a sexy way but a spiritual kind of that truly touched my soul, you got one new subscriber.
Loved your attire and Chopin on the background
Ryan Gosling kinda has the weak chin/head shape/delicate features these guys go on about. He even has a bit of a receding hairline. And we all know how much women hate him :)
uuuuuh that voice! its Olly from philosophy tube, isnt it? I love that guy, he´s great and his "suicide and mental health" video is one of the best videos on this plattform, period.
studies have found people do tend to end up with others of a similar level of attractiveness to themselves.
This intro reminds me of VaatiVidya.....
Great Video:  A couple of Years ago,i myself was tempted with going my Own Way (MGTOW), but though about it - at this point to be a easy escape to the whole Topic: To make a Long Story short, a Girl hit me emotionally SOO HARD, that i woke up, i saw myself in the Mirror and understood that hte whole Nice Guy Approach - even though good intended, was not my Honest me. If Femenism is indeed to blame to an extend, then the best way to bring reason is through Example and not Shaming.  i dont know if i am a Chad, and i dont care, but i certainly feel like the best version of myself
Fuck this video
I used to read MGTOW forums all the time. Even though I'm a woman, I actually started to buy into it a little. The level of hypocrisy they have is mind boggling. Constantly bitching about women being irresponsible, superficial, greedy, manipulative, hypocritical, lazy, whiny, slutty,  stupid, easily offended, cruel, sadistic, only wanting the most attractive/rich men, and so on. If a woman doesn't appear to be one of these things, it's only because of the circumstances, because "all women are like that".    But they strive to be sexually promiscuous. No woman is ever pretty enough to please them, and if she is, it's only because she's tricking them with makeup. Everything is based on circular logic and anecdotal "evidence", and dissenting opinions are disregarded, sometimes even mocked. They say heartless things about women and seem to get weirdly annoyed when people are rightfully offended. I'm probably wrong about that part though, MGTOW are super manly alpha males who don't fall for shaming tactics (can't take the tiniest criticism). They take pride in being sociopathic and selfish. They give each other advice on how to manipulate women, but it's okay because women are evil and it's what they deserve. It's almost like they're taking things they hate about themselves and projecting them onto women.
I started transitioning recently. Month on HRT... I am... Honestly scared and curious... If I should have started...
That post talking about them killing themself tonight at14:39 mad me so sad I cried.
The wrist part had me fucking dYING
i know when i'm looking for a man i always go for the ones who *never heard a song in there entire life*
the youtube algorithm has been fucking hounding me to watch this video for literally 2 months. HAPPY NOW?
Holy fuck.  I'm black pilled or catastrophizing person.  I literally want to die rn.
I'm gay but it would be curious sucking a tranny stick
As a straight white man, who before never entertained the thought of being attracted to trans women, just wanna say that you’re one of the best looking people I’ve ever seen and that you should be super proud!
kinda wanna fuck the atlantic ocean rn
The wonderful SuperEyepatchWolf mentioned  you in his "My Favorite Things Winter 2019" video, so I gave your channel a shot, watching this video first as I never dared to inform myself about the subject on a deeper level (and it seems I made the right choice).  I am impressed about your neutral approach of the subject, the structure, the presentation and your carefully spread humor. I never heard about you before, but I am glad I now know this channel and I look forward to watching other videos. Also, I really like your voice.  Keep it up!
Oh oh this is way to funny , a trans fem is taking shots at whimpy males    Ba dum tss
Not mah face bones!
yknow i wonder how much of the incel experience and ideology (women only want to fuck chads instead of settling for good 4/10 boys like they ought to) is a result of the infinitely higher beauty standards that women face. like, incels basically argue that THEY don't have high expectations and would gladly date a women on their own attractiveness level if it wasn't for those pesky hypergamous gals but... the women they consider to be on their own attractiveness level are probably women who wear make up, carefully choose their wardrobe, watch their weight, have a skincare routine and take good care of their hair, and i doubt the same can be said of all those sad dejected incels. not to imply that every woman puts so much effort into being conventionally attractive - i sure don't - but i'm gonna go out on a limb and say that more of them do so than men. maybe if beauty standards and expectations in regards to taking care of one's looks were evened out for men and women, the incels wouldn't see the playing field as being so skewed.
I dig these baroque and classical vibes, girl
I. A M. A  F U C K I N G. B R E A D. M A N S. M A N
I really enjoyed this video etc it's a very complex topic and it's quite hard to elaborate about it more than You just did.. but GOD! When You speak about the ocean or thunder it just makes me wanna go out and dance in the rain <3
And goddamn youre gorgeous
Gahh I love you so much
The Red Pill movement and Incel movement are two egregiously and nearly diometrically opposed things!! Very important distinction here! Red Pill is all about self accountability and self-improvement. The incel movement is grounded in entitlement and externalizing all faults!!
I had to skip the beginning omfg
The fuck whole rant had me dying. As a trans women myself. I have heard that shit before.
This sort of reminds me of Pro-Anorexia/Pro-Bulimia communities where the goal isn't recovery, but encouragement of unhealthy habits and negative body images. They bond over hating their own appearances. Even if other people tell them they look fine as they are, they don't believe it.  I guess there's some comfort in misery.
Gosh, this is so good?? Jokes are funny, interesting commentary and a soothing distinct voice. (Your makeup is on point too, I am jelly.)   IM DEAD. The sea, your reactions to the texts, sacred holes and Abby is on point. Subbed.   Them: Women have small heads and soft facial features!! Me, a woman with sharp features, a strong jaw, and is only not confused for a man because my bodyshape is hourglass: Bruh. Women aren't cookie cutter shaped.
its a trap!
I love how incel "culture" functions like a franchise
I'm going to be 22 next month and never have been on an official date yet but have hangout with some attractive girls. I've never kissed or had sex but I have  participated in a group snuggle party for a yoga meetup. I rock climb, stay in shape, have many many friends, and am complemented on my looks and confidence. However, most of the girls I meet have boyfriends or are not interested in getting to know me. I never took it personally but did want to improve my skills because of my autism so I looked up dating videos online. Most of it was very confusing because they said that women don't love men and that they only love resources. I didn't want to believe it but also didn't want to deny it because I wanted to at least understand what the philosophy was about.  I do think the Red Pill community are right about so many things but a lot of it is just exaggerated by bitter people. A lot of girls have helped me with my depression so it doesn't make sense to me how women wouldn't care about me. I cold approach many girls I have interest in and they'll be polite and climb with my at the gym or talk to my at my community college campus. I almost always get their real legit number which is honestly very very easy, but what rarely happens is a girl meeting to hangout with me. So far only one girl has met me 4 times, and another girl has met me twice and would probably see me again but has a boyfriend.    I've also modeled for some photo shoots where the photographers complemented my smile and looks. My friends told me that girls are attracted to Status, looks, and confidence. My family is financially stable, I for now live in a house by myself, I have a lean muscular body, and I'm very humorous. But girls still don't want to talk to me, does that make me hate them? Absolutely not so please don't label all incels as hateful people. I don't hate women and I once saved a girl from getting raped. She was 17 and getting drunk by these older men who then invited her to their room to smoke weed. I decided to come with her as her friend and kept an eye on her for the rest of the night on a cruise. She added me on instagram and is doing pretty well, she's quit drugs and and spreading kindness.
Well I’m a short, fat, ugly man who isn’t blessed with an average sized endowment. Does that automatically make me an incel?
17:52 Contra is Aphrodite confirmed
"grab them by their Black Ops t-shirts"
Came here by Super Eyepatch Wolf's recommendation and I must say I loved you and the video.
The state has a duty to put all disgusting sodomites to the sword of righteousness.
I have the solution to the incel crisis. Get each one of them a hooker to pretend to be a one night stand and compliment their dicks, followed by a toke.  Trust me, no one is angry after some sex and weed
Not related to the video, but have you seen/read the Declaration on the Rights of Sign Language Peoples (DRSLP)? https://youtu.be/fnSkds-dt2c
People hate the things they are most jealous of.  They are low T males. They’re... A little bit female. And part them knows... They aren’t man enough... But if they could be female, they’d at least get action.  And they know they can’t be either. So they lash out.  Cornered animals, it is nothing so strange as all that... But you must know they do not truly hate these women. They resent them.  Cornered animals... And in truth; aren’t we all?
Incels are why I’m celibate
I've never thought about the ocean like this....and i will never stop
Incels: women who have standards and and won't fuck me are evil, but only cucks would stoop for ugly women and even though I'm ugly as shit, I have standards to only date hot women. Also women shouldn't be allowed to work so they'll be forced to rely on me for food and be my slave-wife. And female incels don't exist. But no one wants to date older women. (Too much contradictions here lmfaooo)  Also incels: why do women date guys with money ugh fricking gold-digging bitches only see us as machine tools (too much projection going on here smh, but that's not the most important part)  These incels are lazy, ugly, overall shitty humans with no redeeming personality traits, can't provide any resources except exhaustion yet they want a housewife who stay at home, then where is the money to survive if no one works? Welfare?
Great job <3
I will never stop loving you, Natalie. Stay amazing and keep doing what you do
What's wrong with tall dick? #notalldick
Thats why i love my blissfully ignorant country, people here have no idea humanity is this fucked.
Sounds like the Red Pill theory would work both ways, no? Men want the pretty women and women want the pretty men.
My takeaway from this is that I wanna date Becky.
Jordan is not sexist
Is she trans?
lights up cigar
Until you said you were trans I never would have guessed.  You look amazing.  And I loved the video.  Great stuff.  Subscribed.
man red pill used to be something more benign and economics related until these fkers stole them =(
No the music is apart of a cringey fucked up anime
Oh lord, this goes without saying but... Who hurt these men??
Wow... I lived in a beautiful world, with rainbows and unicorns, and butterflies everywhere. But real world is sooo fuked up... so-so fucked up. Real potential murderers most of the times looks like what society labels as "normal", and you never knows what's in the head of your absolutely ordinary looking guy next door. scary. O_O'
Super eyepatch wolf sent me. Your video was super awesome and insightful. :) and if it makes you feel better I had no idea you where transgender until you told us.
I don't know why, but the segment where the trans women are afraid of looking like a man in a dress makes my stomach sink. I feel so sad there.
I just gotta say, I’m 11 minutes in and I’m shocked by the fucking lunacy that is the incel way of thinking. This is some of the most disgusting, ugly, wrong headed ideas I’ve ever heard in my life. That having been said, this is a fantastic video, and you’ve earned yourself a new subscriber. Really, awesome video essay, and nice subtle sense of humor. Looking forward to seeing more from you.
But skull shapes are different between races.. and blacks are less intelligent.. right? Is that not right?
Well I think Winona Ryder has a very intelligent younger sister.
The aesthetic of this video is weirdly mesmerizing to watch.
This vid smart
I came here on a recommendation from Super Eyepatch Wolf and 10 minutes in, I subscribed to the channel.  I had always heard of Incels, but never looked up wtf they were. Mostly out of laziness to understand another fucking group on the internet that is probably full of crap. I'm already part of the Star Wars fandom, the side that actually really liked The Last Jedi even if I know there are parts I will not defend, I didn't really want to know more another group that would probably piss me off. Anyway, great video, happy the recommendation made me get to you and really looking forward to go into the channel and see your other videos.
Getting off /lgbt/ saved my life. That shit was a downward spiral, and I still feel the lingering effects when I have bad days, thinking back the the comments on my pictures, talk of repression, being a failed woman, etc. I had to rip myself away forcefully, and thank god I did.
Damn. Whelp.. I'm just gonna go ahead and press that subscribe button now..
As someone who has gotten precipitously close to falling down the Incel rabbit hole, I think the reason a lot of "attractive" guys wind up there is not because of "argh I don't have a date therefore I hate women," but is more a result of other trauma or mental health problems that popular definitions of masculinity exacerbate. I have ADHD, which comes packaged with Rejection Sensitive Dysphoria (RSD). Men are largely expected not to care what other people think of them, but that really only compounds the self-loathing and anger that can come from RSD. Not only do I feel terrible whenever I am rejected, but as a man, I shouldn't even feel terrible in the first place. Then I feel bad about my failure as a man, then feel bad about feeling bad, and it just spirals out of control. It's similar with depression. If your value as a man is determined by how many women you can sleep with, and in order to do that you need the energy to go out and do that, then regardless of how attractive you are, your depression can make you feel like you're ugly or not worth dating. All this simply festers, because men are often discouraged from seeking help with their emotional needs, eventually morphing into a hatred of all involved. Hatred at women for rejecting you and "putting you in this position," hatred at society for "lying" to you about your appearance, and hatred at yourself for all of your "real" and "obvious" flaws. So in a sense, Incels *are* victims. Just not in the way that they've convinced themselves.
I do want to point out black men can’t get hot women because women want a chad. All girls want a white guy
that was glorious
Isn't there a way to change your skull shape through your mouths posture?
When you are so fucked up that you need to shame other fucked up people to somehow feel better.
IM A LESBIAN STAN!!!!
I was an incel a few years back, before I started university I believed i was inherently understandable and that I could never have happiness. Then in uni i first installed tinder and eventually I started talking to a girl, i wasnt that attracted to her but she seemed nice enough and we went on a date that ended in me loosing my verginity. One of the darkest points in my life came after, i had finally done it, i was loved and appreciated and... still lonely, still depressed, still feeling undesirable.  The saddest thing about incels is that they have constructed there world view around a straw man that can only serve to distract them from their actual problems.  Im seeking help, doing cbt to give me confidence and slowly trying to piece together a life i want to live. I hope they can do the same.
Okay i just came to this channel via super eyepatch wolf and i love it already
Good choice of Olly for the voiceover. I approve.
This is crazy! Do people really think this way??
Also, honestly Contra, I think you're looking pretty damn good (that's coming from a straight guy who has never said this of trans-women before).
Well this is interesting, I just learned that I'm a catastrophrizer. The whole evolving, being late for something, into the world ending is pretty much how my brain seems to operate yes.
super eyepatch wolf sent me
Chad sounds like a fuckboy
Im seriously tired of incels crying about how their skull or wrist somehow makes them unfuckable. How much pressure is there on women to get that "perfect hourclass figure" with big hips small waist and small shoulders? Its everywhere. I would say im more of a bigger female - no im not obese (im normal and healthy weight) but im tall (182 cm) and I work out a lot. My shoulders are bigger than my hips, and my waist is as wide as my hips - Simply because I have a big ribcage. Do I cry about it? Do I blame male sexuality and males generally for not being sexually attracted to me? Do I go on the internet and start a community about hating men for that reason? No. I learned to love my body for what it is. It takes some time to love your body if you have body issues - but incels are going find a new reason for them to be sexist.
Goddamnit woman, you're fucking amazing. I really feel for you for having to deconstruct those forums but you did such a great job. Your intellect really shines through.  Thanks for doing this video btw, it really explained a lot of things.
First time viewing you (SuperEyepatchWolf sent me), and I gotta say this was fucking great. I can't wait to watch more.
Dude i cant, i jus cant yo
I just won the random click lottery. this was hilarious and insightful.
going to not bother watching this stupid woman's long winded stupid explanation.
I’m at 22 min in and oh honey, no no no. I mean this in the nicest, most supportive way I can, that you not only look 100% woman, your mannerisms and way of talking are 100% woman, too. You remind me of some friends that I have. You shouldn’t worry, nitpick or feel so insecure because honestly you’re gorgeous and sexy and I would have thought you were cis if not for the voice - only because I pair a deeper, raspier, vocal fry type voice to your whole aesthetic and attitude. Like the daughter on Kimmy Schmit lol   I wasn’t going to comment on this until you mentioned constantly worrying about looking too much like a man and wanting facial surgery, and that broke my heart because you’re so femme as it is right now I don’t even know what you could change. If you want to, sure, but please don’t feel like you need surgery to fit some “ideal” woman stereotype for everyone else who looks at you, because you’re not only *already* there, but you’ve proved to me just from seeing how you move your hands that being woman is all in the brain and a state of mind.
YOU ARE GORGEOUS!
First time viewer, you’ve struck gold! This is a perfect medium between informative and entertaining. Your bits are great and I love your subtly self-depreciating humor. You’ve earned a subscriber and probably a patron once I get my broke ass off the ground.
TIL I have the bone structure of a chad
"...Amber, Heather, Jenna and Trish..."  Why do I suddenly miss George Carlin?   Oh wait... is his "goofy boy names" bit somehow incel friendly?   I have a bad taste in my mouth.
This honestly made me feel worse for incels than I expected. The thinking that, at least initially, got them into those situations is very relatable. I bet they would be surprised how many people even "Chads", not that I'm suggesting I am one whatever the fuck that even is, have similar feelings of self-loathing albeit more intermittently.
eyepatch sent me here and i love it, great video!!!
SuperEyepatchWolf sent me here and I enjoy your channel
i will never understand how you can think the way incels do and wonder why you cant get laid
This was disturbing. Thank you. I hope more people watch this.
YOU WERE A TEENAGER IN 1975?!! ....no. No.  are you supernatural??  How?
Supereyepatchwolf sent me
10:00 how insane....they should try telling that to all the women raving over "Dad-bods"... so far as I can tell, the rest of our culture for at least 70 years has been teaching the opposite: that every man deserves a woman more attractive and more willing to put energy into a relationship than himself. Mentally run down the entire history of sitcoms, all the way back to the earliest days of tv (the Honeymooners) and including sitcoms in cartoon form, and over 85% of the time, the wife is significantly more attra tive than the husband. She is often more fit, kinder, more patient, and even more intelligent....and she is drastically more likely to remember his birthday or their anniversary and have a gift ready for him.  This has had a real effect on us.   Sociological studies have shown that heterosexual men consistently rate themselves as more attractive than women rate them, and they believe women show more interest in them than those women report to feel. Women, when tested, generally have opposite outcomes....they rate themselves as less attractive than men consider them, and often believe men are less attracted to them than they report.
So you acknowledge that there are no women on 4chan.
"Why work hard for the pussy when I can get enought with my hands"  -  _blueface_
the self loathing talk reminds me a lot of the eating disorder blogs i used to frequent. instead of skull size tho it was rib cage and hips haha.
"Wtf" but with love is the only way I can describe my feelings towards this video. It felt like I was watching a documentary, great work.
EyepatchWolf Squad represent!
I think if a lot of these dudes maybe lowered their standards they might have a good time
please don't cut it off
I like this Channel, and I don't go out of my way to compliment or praise someone cuz I just don't do it, it's not in me to do so. Making an exception here, I like the well thought out video, wasn't mean or a rant. And I did like that you acknowledged the difference between Men & Women in the dating scene (The whole tinder example). Because I have been in that place where I thought that maybe I'm just ugly and women won't date me ever. It took way too long for me to get out of that mindset and gain a little confidence in my looks. But the reality is I haven't tried asking girls out because, even though I know there are women who would like me. There is this still this feeling that I'll just be rejected. It's comforting to know that there is at least someone else who acknowledges this. **Subscribed & Notifications On.**
Im 9999^1000000% incel. Suscribbed.
This is the first video I’ve see of yours and I couldn’t even tell you were trans. Only when you mentioned it could I barely tell, and the only noticeable thing was your voice, but even then, it just sounded like you may have smoked in the past. Great video, amazingly made with some great jokes!
WTF is wrong with these people! If you used the time and energy you waste feeling sorry for yourself, on actually working toward getting a girl, you would get one. YES, the dating scene is cancerous a lot of the time, YES is sucks being rejected and treated as less than. YES, women may have it slightly easier. SO WHAT? If you're a man, MAN UP! Take those rejections head-on! 10, 50, 1000, 10000, who cares?! If I have to take on 10000 rejections to find an awesome girl, then that's EASY! If THIS is a problem that destroys you to this level, then being a responsible lover, husband or father is WAY out of your league, IF you continue to act like a SPOILED BRAT! Grow the fuck up you entitled man-babies! There's NOTHING wrong with how you look, there's 0 chance you can't hook up if you keep at it... I swear people these days don't know how to adult.
I just spent 35 mins of my life, learning about a group that makes me depressed. I could just watch porn, play some games, watch a movie, read some manga and be happy. But no I wanted to to watch this well made video with genuinely interesting points so that I could learn something new. And now that I have watched this I hate this reality just a little more now.
I’m an incel and I’m turning 20 soon, I don’t hate women and I have plenty of friends both male and female. I find ridiculous to blame women for everything but I agree with the statements made about genetics I accepted long ago that I probably never will be in a relationship. I feel lonely sometimes but I’m happy with my life because I got plenty of friends and I have some fun hobbies Life doesn’t revolve around sex if you can’t get it stop whining and find something else to do, you’ll be happier this way
Im a transgender woman in closet  And bisexual(20y) , im more atrachted to womans  But aaah i never have a girlfriend and im very masculine in my body, language, and kinestesic,  But i have kisses and fuck womans a couple of times and go  to the gym and have friends, I have clinical depression so i tried very hard to take my pills and no be a fucking sad/cathastropic/negative person.  Imagine be loking for inspiration or  be searchin people like you,  you are fuck one side the Incel redit reject you and calls you a fake incel and they are very toxic and suicidal, and the 4chan LGTB tread is full of suicide fuel.   Finally I discover this vídeo and is a greath.  Sorry for the bad English but is not my natal language.
Women can not have a big skull? Well, I have. I'm 5'4, thin, absolutely female looking, small hands and feet and hats made for women usually are TO SMALL for me. In men's hats I need an L to fit my head. I have thick hair as well but I do not look rediculous or ugly. I just look normal. No one in my whole life would have mistaken me as a man - so for transwomen a bigger skull should never be the reason NOT to transform.   I likes this video very much and am looking forward to seeing more of this (58 years old and still getting aquainted with youtube ;-) )
Secondly, who here has watched Eggy?
I've been around a lot of "incels" over the years, hell I thought I was one at some point (but then I remembered shit like I've had friends approach me and I've had girlfriends and shit so hey at least I'm kinda desireable?) but Realized that I'm just voluntarily celibate and sex isn't really a big deal for me. I get sad cause I'm lonely of course but it's not because I'm not getting laid, I just jerk off in those cases lol.  Being an Incel is a mindset, not a DESTINY
im a virgin(18) and watching these incel stuff makes me strive to.... not be an incel
Fella's, stop spamming women with dick pics on dating sites and the tables will turn. It's that simple.
Social Darwinism is still going strong in the incel community
I really don't understand why blaming genetics for your failures, I've met a lot of ugly guys who get laid like crazy while I look average and never had a long lasting relationship because I have a shitty personality
I've been sugested by SuperEyepatchWolf to proove yourself worthy.   You are.
So they're basically to men what the "let's get men into concentration camps and hold their population under control"-types are to women? Gotcha. I guess that's why the standard tag for men contradicting anything even remotely related to feminism (whether it be reasonable or not, that's not the point) is incel. It'd be so lovely if people could actually discuss, agree to disagree where it's the case and not start name-calling at any point ^_^. Reminds me of one time I got called cuckold for calling a post stupid because it presented a carricature as if it was the genuine article. And yes, the many times I got called many nasty things for daring to defend myself but eh, it's the nature of the beast. I can't say I agree with your opinions, but this video was informative nevertheless. Too bad it will be misconstrued by some to apply to any man they disagree with but what can you do? It's just like when someone doesn't join in on the conservative circle-jerking gets called cuckold because apparently you're with us or against us. The internet is a marvelous clusterfuck.
Thank you for this video
These incels need to realize nobody likes a negative nancy and how is Jordan Peterson sexist?
This will never be a woman.
Got a recommendation to watch you from SuperEyePatchWolf (so 2000's), and I was impressed. Keep up the good work.
So glad I found this channel good job! Very interesting I never heard of like 90% of these terms
really progressive of me watching it till the end and agreeing to it. i'm proud of myself
I was eating Sunday dinner while I watched this. Now I feel like I've been poisoned.
"At least these pricks care enough about my pussy to be asholes about my dick" (20:50) Priceless.
Hi Contrapoints! I wanted to share with you that I am fighting a hard fight in Ashland OR, a city renowned nationally for its low vaccination rate. The situation is serious, especially now with the Measles outbreak in the PNW. I am a Nurse, and I am trying to promote immunity awareness here in Ashland , but the community is very closed minded and coordinates to suppress information and free speech. I am taking tips from you by trying to inform myself about antivaxer culture.   I don’t know if you’re aware, but the antivaxer culture is heavily rooted on the social media. There was recently a WP article about how FB and YT helps spread antivaxer propaganda.  I feel like antivaxer social media culture spreads in a similar way like incels. They are socially isolated, find each other online, and reinforce their fucked up world view. What’s also frustrating is that they’re anti science and anti evidence based facts (a problem you point out in your climate change video)  You’ve inspired me to take on this harmful online culture, and to bring back facts and logic to social media. Please look into it because you’re a goddess when it comes to fighting social media dumb dumbs, and I could use some help. Wish me luck . #VaccinesMatter ✊💉
It is difficult to avoid being an incel once you have a dick that measures 12 centimeters (4.72 inches) and lives in Brazil
You are so gorgeous and funny. Fantastic and insightful video.
IF I can put out a question in this video:  What would you do if you met an incel in real life? would you try to make a genuine connection with them and hoping they realize that the world isn't such a bad place after all? OR just ignore them and move on with your life and they move on with theirs.
Lack of self confidence, and then resentment about being rejected, are two problems that many incels face, which sabotage their chances at success.
I just found you, and the video was top quality amazing, but one thing I kept coming back to was just how damn pretty your hairdo was and how much I want that lovely shawl lol
YOU ARE A GORGEOUS GOLDEN GODDESS
I don't know why people talking with the meme lexicon in any serious manner cracks me up.
we love you!
Stratocasters relieve sexual tension & get u laid! Win, win... Rock's not dead it just moved to Europe :-D
This was really thoughtful and you are a beautiful person
I'm leaving
PQ É TÃO DIFICIL ADMITIR QUE É TUDO CONSEQUÊNCIA DE UMA GENÉTICA RUIM EM VEZ DE FICAREM FALANDO Q A GENTE NÃO PEGA NGM PQ TRATAMOS MULHERES COMO LIXOS? VSF, VÁRIOS INCELS TRATAVAM MULHERES COMO SEMI-DEUSAS E NUNCA GANHARAM NADA EM TROCA, SÓ REJEIÇÃO E FRUSTRAÇÃO.
That was fantastic.  You're so clever and insightful and able to talk about an issue with a humble and well-rounded perspective.
Not quite sure if I want to date you or be you but either way I love you.
Skulls do change over the course of your life. Why the fuck am I watching this video? Fuck my life... Why
There like this becouse people are shitty.
Why did you secnser the word cock? Why do ronchy topics if your still trying to be monatiesed?
"I can't speak for other women but personally I prefer the firing squad of dicks.  At least these pricks care enough about my pussy to be an asshole about my dick!" I think you are the first person in all my years on youtube I have ever subbed to.  You're awesome!  This video was informative, entertaining, and so raw and real while somehow still maintaining a level of empathy that is lacking in today's media.  Well done!
Your french gown at 5:40 is rad as hell
Best content on youtube.
I find the largest issue stopping me from finding love is my emotional instability and binge drinking and the fact that I might just be an awful person BUT all of those things are changeable so really it's just a matter of me putting in the time and effort to improve myself :)
This is fucking awesome. Honestly, like, this video was very informative, reflective and fair. Super mature I love it. Have subscribed! 😁
When i said i wanted to hear olly talk dirty this isn't what I meant
Goddamit! amazingly put together content. Who is the male voice actor in your videos? Subscribed.
I didn't notice you were trans to be honest. You don't look or sound masculine to me.  You just sound and look like a really strong woman.
This is one of your best videos. Genuinely powerful.
1:31 the fade out of the skull to Natalie's face is a really good detail when you consider what she is about to talk in the video
Pleeeeaaaseeee make more videos. They confuse me sometimes but i feel like im actually thinking sometimes lol and its just everything - challenging and funny and crazy
The guy doing the voice-overs is really annoying me and I can't explain why. I think it's something to do with his overacting. I don't know why it's so annoying. There's something about him being self-obsessed enough to embed his interpretation of how they sound so conspicuously, as if he's a professional voice actor. He also sounds nasal and pompous. I'm sorry I'm sure he's a nice guy.
What is it called when I stay celibate because I'm unattracted to anything? I feel like a robot in a male human body. It's soft and weak.  P.S. I enjoyed the video, and learned what incels are. Never knew before because I carefully choose where I go on the internet. So many dark corners...
How about Women Too Toxic For Relationships? WTTFR's? Any other ideas?
Is she a trany?
content like this is why i quit watching tv and only watch youtube creators. bravo. TIL a lot.
Women aren't attracted these "Not-Chad" Incels because they mope around blaming other people for their faults and that is so immature and undesirable. They're so insecure and have such fragile masculinity that if even one woman rejects them they have a full meltdown and hate women oh wait excuse me, "femoids"...like lmao fuck no. I'm not even offended at their behavior because it's so sad, they need major confidence boosts.
i got a crush on you you're so pretty
The lengths that people will go to so they can avoid going to the gym is astounding.
This video is awesome
THIS IS THE BEST FUCKING VIDEO ON YOUTUBE. Instant sub
‘Chadpreet’ lmao
Happy Valentines beautiful - you are a gorgeous Goddess everyday!  I wish you had a clone and one could be the male energy and the other could be the female energy and that I could be sandwiched in the middle! We could all drink wine and giggle about how stupid virgin men can be  ...But I promise I won't smell your panties until the 5th date at the very least.  lol  Sigh I should of married a tranny, but I have no dick and my face looks like a woman... so forever alone in my headero marriage... but one day maybe I can find a tranny chad and marry up.  OH THE FEMOID DREAMS I HAVE!  The future looks bright for me.  Thanks society!
Damn! You are beautiful,  don't be spending money to hack your face! Your voice is awesome as well.
the marriage not have been many worse with them and our self her marriage husband , understand the limit and fighting up for growen hit, reporter the usually chance forbidden answer, not for giveness other pound die foward, out many slaves are which some people social and civil people . . . .
True!!!! MANY BEUTY THESE CHANEL Thanks !
that took a really walt whitman turn at the end there
have these people ever considered plastic surgery if their facial insecurity is worth suicidal escape
Wait so, Incels hate women? I'm so confused with these dumb fucking labels ahah. Someone explained an incel as someone who can't get laid instead of doesn't want to get laid. Is it seriously the second one?
I would have never thought you were trans by looking at you, or by your voice... like, I pass as a man more than you do, and the best I can do is make myself look like a twelve year old twink. And this video about incels was so interesting, god. Also, I love your voice, it's so damn calming... I'm sad I discovered your channel only now!
This is the first video I have ever seen from you - I would have never imagined that you had transitioned if you hadn't spoken about it.
12:20 Why did hearing this make me want to binge-watch Binging with Babish?
I would bang Becky any day of the week, instead of that "Stacy".
I have rather delicate wrists (having had both arms broken when younger has somewhat stunted forearm growth a bit) and constantly buy the smallest size hat (6 7/8) whenever they happend to have it. I'm not even 5'8''.   But the damn facts that I ask questions and pay attention to other people when they talk, as well as have many, many interests means I've never really been without a relationship for too long. Happily married for 5 years tomorrow.   I think you hit the nail on the head when saying that the answer is therapeutic, not logical.
1975? Is contrapoints that old?
Do you have a dick?
I don't think it is fair to lump men's rights activists in with the rest, I know the aching theme is men but they are really trying to do good for injustices done to men, apart from that I'm not fully convinced by your argument, but I will take comfort in it lest the damn black pill hunts me down. TL;DR clean your room.
i guess I'm a hopecell then. though tbh the "ascendancy" is promoted by video games, novels and movies who often has that lonesome badass but didn't or don't want to get laid both male and female characters... the difference ofc is that these characters are from millitary or intelligence / survivor and is actually awesome LMAO
I hate myself for not watching this the first time it was recommended to me
I don't know if I should laugh at incels, or be terrified. Either way, they need to get out of those forums and off the computer.
people who can't think of women as human beings not only get absolutely everything wrong, but also don't understand that women get rejected too, we're not magical creatures that can get sex or love whenever we want to.. I find it extremely scary to think that a large group of people have this kind of mentality and refuse to know better..
You are still a man
This was actually very interesting to listen to. I've only heard about incels through passing conversations I've seen on facebook and whatnot. I didn't really pay much mind to it, but more recently I've done a bit of reading up on it myself. That 'community' is quite scary.  Also, you look gorgeous!! Your voice is lovely as well!
why dont they just fuck eack other
Love your hair, clothing and make up, especially at 5:33
Sweet. This looks like a cool new channel to binge watch. I'm always the last person watching popular things...
Until you said you were trans.... I just thought you were a woman with a distinctive voice.
*If only you knew how bad things really are*
well.. after listening to ALL of that, and as a straight hetero cis-gender-er i kind of feel like i need to tell you that you're awesome (and i kind of love you?)
This video is incredible and you’re gorgeous. 🙂
Ah the petrichor.
incels: women are liars who denies that physical attraction exists. they're just feminists. at least men admit they care about appearance   incels: *denies women to physical attraction when dating men or so called "chads"* how dare these shallow hoes not bang me?! im entitled to a femoid even tho there's nothing good about me and im just a useless piece of garbage. but hot chicks should be forced to date and fuck me. yeah appearance matter but only when i decide it does!
Spooky scary   ̶s̶k̶e̶l̶e̶t̶o̶n̶s̶   skulls!
Anybody else thinking that her voice in 7:00 sounds even better than normally?  Love your content btw.
15:34 hold up. Handlebar mustaches are Chad now? Fuck, I have been a chad for the last year!
It was my luck that I was watching this whilst stuffing my face in a Sonic Drive Thru, the car Bluetooth playing the audio loudly so that other people can hear... then right @17:54  the Sonic lady skated by. I will never forget the look of horror and disgust on her face. 😂😂😂
Mentally ill drug addict here. I get laid all the time 👍
The game is extremely out dated , and I don't think Roosh V  is a good representation of the PUA community. Look into RSD. What they do is really good. They very rarely get mentioned.
“Maybe they’re attracted to me, that’s an attractive thing” so. Fucking. True.
All these cis dudes defending their own masculinity before they DARE to say you "look very feminine" are really bumming me out. But as a fellow tran I am glad you're attracting their views and opening their eyes a bit. It's a start.
You would assume that incel guys would naturally hook up with other incel guys, in a gay way, I mean, why don't they all just come out? Seems to me that gay dudes pretty much all share a ( thinly veiled ) deep hatred of women? And, isn't there a population of incel women anywhere? Seems like that would be a statistical probability. So all that the incel dudes have to do is to find incel women, and date and fuck them. But that would be too easy.
INCELS CAN GO JUMP OF A.. cliff
This is the best piece I have come across about incels. Your work is just phenomenal. As a heterosexual cis-gendered woman, I admit I find violent incels absolutely revolting, and I know I'm not the only woman who despises incel culture as it is producing yet another group of dangerous men we now have to hope to God we are fortunate enough to avoid...mostly when we are just going about our business, living our lives. And don't get me wrong, I still despise them, and the culture that produced them, but I do understand that crushing loneliness. And Natalie, not that you need to hear this of course, but you ARE gorgeous. This is the first video of yours that I watched. And I did think you were a cis woman. I was quite surprised to find a very attractive young man indeed hosting your earlier videos! Now I'm just hoping that, one day, my own dress sense and make up skills can match yours. You're awesome! <3
"The Manosphere Exists Because Rock & Roll Is Dead" - you need to make merch with this and make a zillion dollars.
5th base: *A   N   A   L*
19:12-19:17 thank you for the TERF bashing. We don't stan them.
I never knew that environmental erotica was a thing. But holy cow!
Great, now I'm gonna start getting turned on every time it rains. Thanks Contra. <3
i dont even know your channel but i'm proud of u for coming out and making what seems to be absolutely amazingly well informed content, so i'm subscribing :>
Ah tbh her voice is kinda sexy ngl :D
"the chads with the fuckable skull"  ...WHAT
bread scientist
okay tea but natalie always looks fucking gorgeous in every video. i love you sisterrrr
Looooove YOU 😘😘😘😘😘🧡🌹
I kind of hoped you’d give more attention to the roles that are usually expected from men and how that also hurts people like that. You touched on it a little in the tinder part, but not enough I think. It’s usually expected that men do the move, meanwhile women can usually do nothing and still end up in a relationship. Now sure, it’s partially men’s fault for doing too much, but in this case, women have more power. Maybe if women took action to actually seek out relationships, maybe those communities wouldn’t be as popular as they are. After all, why are there only male incel communities? Clearly, it’s a problem that only touches men.
I kind of hoped you’d give more attention to the roles that are usually expected from men and how that also hurts people like that. You touched on it a little in the tinder part, but not enough I think. It’s usually expected that men do the move, meanwhile women can usually do nothing and still end up in a relationship. Now sure, it’s partially men’s fault for doing too much, but in this case, women have more power. Maybe if women took action to actually seek out relationships, maybe those communities wouldn’t be as popular as they are. After all, why are there only male incel communities? Clearly, it’s a problem that only touches men.
First of all, the quality of this video is amazing; lighting, shot order, content, etc. Thank you for summarizing the Incel phenomenon. I was worried when you began to speak about sympathy towards them, and I'm not sure I entirely see the Incel-TTTT analogy in the scope you do, but it was interesting food for thought. Incel thought is problematic in both ways: their misogyny and their self-hatred self-fulfilling boards.
I wonder if i stumbled into "that" part of youtube, Yes i had the actually thoughtful and witty analysis of humanity part of YT and as a bonus a subjects that stabs into my feelings forcing me to confront parts of me i though well hidden.  I  personally like ContraPoints bone structure would swipe right.
A new channel to binge watch! You had me at 'cock carousel'.
I loved this video. You're so fun to listen to.
The first video I watched of yours was the incel video and I was SHOCKED when you said you used to live as a man. You don’t look like a man in a dress, you look like a beautiful woman
i dont understand how people can become incels. just go outside wtf
I'm a woman but...i can't bake bread- /spontaneously grows a massive beard, voice drops by 8 octaves/
The intense misogyny has a weird positive effect. The most intense posts drive away those whose start looking into the community. For example, when /r/incels was still a thing, one of the posts at the top of controversial sorting was legitimately advocating for mass wide-scale rape and the literal genocide of women. It was so bad that almost all of the comments made by actual incels were still along the lines of, "What in the unholy fuck?" It drove tons of people away from the community, and, hopefully, to a better world view.  (Side note: While incels call for things like sex slaves and blame women for rape, most do draw the line somewhere, and mass rape and genocide is so far beyond the line of rational people that even those incredibly fucked up can be like, "hold up.")
What do you think about the idea 99% of most porn scenes end with the man masterbating to orgasm? I see it as benign homo desensitization to male nudity and cock play. Straight men won't watch a guy jerk off unless his cock is aimed at a woman's face. And what porn fan wouldn't want to see the standard facials presented as the only suitable climax.
Bases in Porn. 1st base- BJ 2nd base- Vaginal 3rd base-Anal Home- Facial
Subscribed. This is the first video I’ve seen of yours. Loved it. I’m so impressed. now I have to watch everything of yours
Girl, can you not pretend that women being "surrounded" by men on tinder and shit isn't good? It's just sexual objectification  You miss as to why this happens in the first place, and how common it actually is. I didn't get anyone to like me for a long time, not all of the tinder matches I get even talk to me. I am an example of a woman who isn't constantly desired
I've never been so aroused by a description of a thunderstorm or of the ocean. Fantastic
I keep coming back to this video not because I am an incel but because Natalie is a Goddess
this video is amazing, well done lol
Great presentation! The basic principles certainly made me cringe, but knowing the other side's ideology and arguments helps in understanding the psychological issues.  Thanks for posting this video.
Kay but “The Becky” is MUCH more desirable than “The Stacy”
Oh damn, i think you are really pretty. Now im gay! Jebus help me from this.... HEeeey Boobies!!
Starting out this video I was more-so interested in the topic rather than the medium it was told through - but you were absolutely enthralling, rarely are YouTube videos done with such artistry. Very entertaining. I'm very impressed. Subscribed.
A beautiful face, and beautiful mind. Thank you for your articulate words and enthralling esthetic. I am very happy my husband showed me your channel! Much love to you! 😊
I thought you were a non-trans woman until you admitted it. Head shape is on point keep it up.
You're wonderful. One of the most entertaining videos I've ever seen!
tbh reminds me of my days on early 2000’s eating disorder forums as a tween/teen, i see all the same core patterns. there were threads where people would post pictures of their bodies, specifically asking for comments calling them fat, disgusting, whale and picking apart each area of their body. (all this being considered motivation). even when some really skeletal, close to death girls would post pics some people wouldnt let up. dark corners of the internet man
just clicked the video. wtf did i get myself into
Your talk about 4chan in Chapter 4 was completely on point. Around uni I was pretty depressed, lonely and envious of the people around me. 4chan was an addiction at the time mostly for fun but I started to realise how the constant stream of negativity I was experience during my visits to the site was ultimately fuelling my feelings of inadequacy, moreso than my own situation. It took the same cold-turkey approach as you to finally stop visiting the site and a lot of reflection on why I felt the way I did.   My mental state has improved much over what it was 5(!) years ago. Most of my anxieties are manifest from our inevitable extinction within a generation, rather than the size of my chin.
finally a channel that prefers quality over quantity
Very informative. Thank you.
Dear ContraPoints Dear Natalie  First of all, I want to express my gratitude, in my clumsy English, for your videos. It's not like I'm an incel, or part of a sexual minority, or something that might become a target for your analyses (in fact I'm a married with kids, cis hetero white guy, living in Central & Eastern Europe, with leftist progressive ideas - and that last one not very easy in a former communist country). But I do find your videos very articulate and informative about this internet culture that, as I grow old, starts becoming more and more incomprehensible to me. And this one in particular, about incels, although not so rich in characters (the cat woman could have solved the incels bone-structure problem with her bat), nor so dialectically engaging, is just brilliantly made, mixing information and sensible advice in just the right proportions.   Second: I'd love to invite you (ok, with my wife, we watch your videos together) to a classical guitar concert. Something baroque, how do you like pre-classics?    Third: you seem very knowledgeable about politics (and if you're not, I bet you could easily get to grips with it) - did you ever consider a form of involvement with institutionalized politics? The kind of thing AOC is doing? I mean, it's just a super-fantasy, but how would US look like with a president like you? (insert whatever quote you want from Shelling to Adorno that the meaning of art is to imagine alternatives to reality rather than represent it.)     Best Regards,   Yours truly....
"I'm ultra masculine as you can see " accompanied with the choice word "outing" is rather telling on that bearded hobo mofo. Insecurity is hell of a thing, cancer of our society. Release the gay and let other people live my dudes
Super clever and entertaining! You definitely earned a new sub!
Bread Scientist😂😂😂
Why don’t they just learn to play the guitar..works for me. Also every guy in the 90’s
The way you speak is fucking great! I know thats not like an earth-shattering revelation or anything, but for real your diction and style is really unique and cuts across identity really well. I think a large part of your impact comes from your delivery, and its really admirable. Esp when you consider the amount of work and talent that goes into your channel in addition to the forms. Keep it up!
Incels when men cheat on or rape women: well it can't be helped we should empathize and feel sorry for them  Incels when women cheat or don't date men: the female nature is evil and treating them badly isn't oppression cuz they deserve it
Why is a woman acting like she knows anything about men and the difficulty of it? You're the most privileged creature on earth, stfu and go back to Instagram you twat. The male suicide rate has increased in the last 100 years after letting women vote and gain power - which in turn has made it so that you cunts can shit talk about men and have no repercussions. Men on the other hand? They get their lives destroyed. Begone Thot!
Got a little off topic there...
i defo feel you with the "post op or pre op" thing, as a trans man its hell to use dating sites and even more hellish to have almost every interaction begin like that.
We gotta bring back rock n roll
I was about to ask if you used to be a dude when I started watching this...question answered, but yeah as a totally hetero dude, you look like a chick, your voice was the only thing really giving it away for me.
Just be gay. Easy
This kind of quality is too informative, mature, and well produced for YouTube. I applaud you but feel like you deserve a ton more.
TBH, I'd much rather do the Becky than the Stacy.
first time viewer here, youtube recommended me this, and I'm really glad it did. *subscribed*
33:32 Holy shit – I need to go write a rock song right now.
What?
"I am ultra masculin as you can see" :D that guy is so unsecure
I, too, am attracted to the inherent eroticism of the sea.
Mendelssohn's Hebrides Overture in the outro?? Ungh. I AM aroused.
I know Natalie probably won’t see this but I would love it if she did a video on anarchy
i hadnt watched anything by you before, but the podcast ‘stuff they dont want you to know’ mentions this video specifically in their episode about incels and i figured id give a watch. very informative and interesting. keep up the good work!
I am a SPLINTER-Cel. I use tactics and stealth to get women. ;)  Also a friendly reminder to any no-hopers who are obsessed with getting a mate: people can resist beauty, but NO ONE can resist charm. And charm is accessible to anyone with half-a-quid of wit. Take it from a retired Splinter Cell operative.        Yours Truly, Sam CatPhisher.
Speaking honestly... I would totally fuck the sea.
My friend said we should call them VOLcels, they're *voluntarily celibate* cause....they literally fucking hate women. 💀 It's their own decision to act like gross, sexist creeps, which is their own responsibility and nobody else's. I agree, calling them incels would suggest they aren't at fault for their situation, but they very much ARE at fault....sick mfs 💀💀 once I browsed the incel hashtag for fun and it was like entering the most smelly, creepy and unsettling dark alley you can possibly have the misfortune to enter...
Nature is sexy
You fucking slaughtered me. Thank you, queen.
I'm a mentally healthy single heterosexual man with no queer tendancies, and while I don't drown in pussy, I occasionally manage to have meaningful relationships that don't work out for whatever reasons. So, this entire topic, philosophy, society, w/e is totally foreign to me. In fact, I had no idea about this movement until my ex showed it to me, and understood nothing about it until just recently.  Well, thank you for making this, honestly quite strange, video. It's insightful in a similar way as learning in-depth about a foreign culture, understandable in an empathetic humanistic sort of way, but completely unfamiliar and strange to me.
I feel bad for incels because sex isn't that interesting. It's like they think sex is like grown-up Disney Land, but the movie version where all your dreams come true and your life takes on meaning upon entry. Sex is at best kinda fun like Six Flags and at best embarrassing like telling your friends you spent your Summer vacation at Six Flags.
Thanks for the needed dive with another view
I didn’t know they called themselves incels 😂😂😂
Oh, I thought this YT recomm was a music video, but it's actually a good video? Huh.
Hi. I know this is a five months video and that you get a lot of comments but I really hope you get to read this. As a big fan of your work, I feel like I should point out that the closing remarks of this video sound like an endorsement of suicide. Telling suicidal people that they can always return to the embrace of the sea... Loved the whole thing but the end... Just thought I should point it out.
"I am outing myself as a baker" ZEKE FROM HIGHSCHOOL MUSICAL? Damn he hasn't aged well
I found your channel today.   As a male growing with insecurities (as we all do), big Nerd (and loved it), and surrounded by this kind of mentality, I really appreciate what you did here. It’s great to find someone who understands you and reflects their own self to you.   I’ve found courage and value both in The Game and Peterson because they gave me a frame I could understand. They helped me change and develop my own ideas. You also gave that: understanding and value.   Thanks.  For helping me understand you.
But like as a woman I wouldn't have even thought you were a former guy if you didn't say anything. . Kisses :)
bwhahaha!  "Can we get coffee first?"  Thank you so much!
I love your video.  Thank you so much for creating it and sharing your personal story!
You turn my frogs gay
So weird to here that op 64 no 2 at 33:00 on a random non-musical vid. Been practicing/learning that for the past 2 months
5:28 - Bravo👍. Almost tempted to say i couldn't have written it better myself. That's saying a LOT coming from me (apparently I'm a Chad)
Btw my husband had no idea you were trans and said you were pretty fucking hot. Then he heard you talking about being post or pre OP and hes like, wait, she's trans? I had no idea. LOL. So we both think you're beautiful and don't notice any mm of bone that isn't just as beautiful! Edit: I called you honey. Deleted it after you informed me about the "hon" on TTT. Sorry. Thank you for educating me!
How is this the 1st time I've seen any of your videos? *instant sub* I think I love you.
7:25 having small wrists myself i feel like i have ground to speak here now i agree with nothing of the points he makes while yes i am a virgin but thats not cause i have small wrists but i do understand why they would say this cause when guys have small wrists people like to point it out alot and when looking for a reason for why girls never seem to like you you will tend to attribute it to the things people point out about you but really your problem isnt your wrist size or your skull its your personality cause the most attractive thing to a girl is a sense of humor not a big dick like you may think
In regards to that fan fiction in the intro. Ever heard of a paid escort?
Why is incel vocabulary so restrictive? 99% of people don't even fit into the categories that incels describe. 🤣
You are an Angel. I hope you can guide the lost souls of inceldom out of their own self inflicted purgatory .Thank you for your work .
And Jordan Peterson is their king
14:59 I feel personally attacked
This is the most important video on YouTube
I really like how each of your video bases (1st base, 2nd base, etc.) are lighted differently. :D
Incels seem to me to be trapped in confirmation bias and strawman the hell out of near everything. I think you look great.
Repeat after me: INCELS  With INCELS interlink There is no hope for them because INCELS With INCELS interlink
iam a huge fan of some mgtow channels but i never heard the word femoids, seems to me like that is a different movement or approach rather.....
I still Love Contra.
Hey, so this is the first video of yours I've watched, and I'm really liking it. Also, I'm a trans woman whose been on HRT for a few months and starting to feel comfortable about being myself and not feeling like a weirdo hairy man in a dress. Just wanted to say thanks for being so straightforward and chill about your own trans-ness, it makes me feel a lot better about my own to realize that I'm not alone. I kinda realize now that I don't really have any trans role models or people to emulate other than like my one trans friend, and I just wanted to say you've helped me feel better about myself.  Thank you for coming to my TED talk, the end.
First video I ever watched of your channel as it was in my recommendations (god knows why, but I'm glad I did). You're a gorgeous goddess and I can say that everyday. No, I'm not gay nor I'm bisexual (for those who might be wondering). It's just my honest opinion, and girl you have worked hard to get where you are right now. I believe you can only improve if you have the will to improve. And after watching this video, you have earned my respect. Subbed.
As an inherently sexual body of water I thank you for ending our long erasure
I find this so relatable.  I'm an asexual, cis-woman who is also hetero-romantic. I spent most of my adult life thinking that I would never have a relationship because what man wants a fat, plain looking woman who wants all the romantic gestures but none of the sexy times?   Of course, my idea of what men wanted was shaped by societal stereotypes. I mean, men are all about sex and their own pleasure and dominating women, right? What man actually likes cuddling and treating his woman like a princess? Men just do that stuff to get to the sexy times, right? It freaked me out if a man even showed interest in me because I was sure they wanted something from me, they certainly weren't attracted to me.   All that about being in a deep dark depression is 100% accurate. It's like you build yourself your own prison cell in the deepest part of the ocean and you're desperate to escape, but you won't let yourself out.   Thankfully, I met a guy who is also asexual and loves cuddling on the couch. He doesn't care what I look like, he's just grateful that I choose to be with him. <3
that opening made me shed a tear, beautiful.
This is my new favorite channel
you look smoking hot you need the best pussy buster cock you can fine & when you do drain is cock dry out of every damn dollar he has & live happy.
I personally feel like people seek to have their doubts proven true just as a way of relieving tension, so to speak. A lot of people have extremely deep-seated insecurities that follow them around like some kind of monster that's stalking their shadow. Even if the thing is frightening and dangerous, in some ways it's better to have it out in the open than to have it following you around and waiting for you to fall.
the first post made me so uncomfortable that i uncrossed and put my legs together
You are really pretty, excellent video
Bone ASMR video series when
You used to be a man? Wow, that explains your great sense of humor. (jk)
this video is right on the money.
OMG.. you're wonderful. This is my first video of yours and I've got a lot of watching to do.
0:24 My name is Alana and I’m bisexual... that was an extremely weird sentence to hear
Look, I dont wanna "mom" these people, these monsters. Screw them. They're assholes. They dont want sympathy so I don't sympathize with them. I'd rather see them be used for human experimentation. They dont wanna contribute shit to society, well then...what else is there to do? I dont wanna "mom" them, baby them or what the fuck ever. I wanna see them lose their god damn minds. They wanna see me and other women raped or dead in ditches somewhere. They worship murderers (if I could find Elliot Roger's grave I'd puke on it, maybe let my sisters dog shit on it as well. Seriously, fuck that guy and fuck his family too). I dont sympathize with them at all. They need to be locked up, put on a plethora of drugs, and be made to lose their memory. In a way, itd be a relief to them! Shit, it could lead the way to...rehabilitation if you will. They can be taught that their previous ideologies are complete dog shit and actually grow to contribute to society! But since this will never be the norm, I say fuck em. Don't sympathize with them. Dont pity them. Don't baby them. Screw them. Make their lives hell and give them something to ACTUALLY fucking cry about. If they dont understand that sex and love are not fucking requirements, well theyll learn some way or other. So in short, fuck you incels. Wanna see me dead? Well I wanna see you lose your god damn memory and actually learn to contribute something to society. You should find out what the world needs and fill that niche. And if you cant, oh well. Rot away, fuckers
Hol up,,, you are gorgeous😍
madlad, or whatever. Cool video girl...
I think you're one of the few youtubers who can post 10 hour long videos and keep the audience engaged throughout. I absolutely love your channel.
what the fuck
When you were their age in the what year now? I thought you were about 27. I've got to take better care of my skin.
-improving yourself- saying "screw it" and blaming your problems on society
You talked very little about mgtow I wonder why  I'm very curious your thoughts on our worldview
Just wanted to stop by and say you do look like a woman. If that made you feel any better I'll consider this comment worth it. Have a nice day!
Hey Virgin Walk is exactly how I walk... Hmm. Shit. Forget I said anything.
Clicked for the incel dive but somehow walked away understanding more about myself instead.  Didn't think you were Trans. I just assumed you were a glamorous vampire and that was just how people dressed in your time. And the decor also.
Thanks for this video. I've been for the past few years been helping my wife deal with her body dysmorphia from anorexia and it's amazing learning how there are other experiences people can have that cause this thing even in men. Anorexics through the limits of my third hand experiences also have many similarities and that's very interesting and is definitely helpful to me especially with my wife.
No amount of horomones will get rid of that Y chromosome . . . just saying
25:45 broke my heart :(
Also, I understand everyone's insecurities about different aspects of their own bodies or faces are hard to overcome. But for what it's worth, as a cis woman I think you're absolutely stunning <3
I now feel bad for using "hon" as a way to say honey and was used as a term of endearment... I had no idea that someone had turned it into an insult
The inherent eroticism of the sea is my new sexual orientation.
omg, this is lovely!
Jordan Peterson is a sexist old man?
Wow. How did I just now come across your videos? Thank you!! Your points are well, on point. ;)
Intellectually,  I find you intelligent.  What are your views on meditation?   I want to get to know you better.
You are amazing. I'm watching this one again because it's so good. <3
I can't watch this video, it's too much, holy shit.
You cannot be part of a counterculture when you support the dominant narrative. You should have chosen another username. Maybe OrangeManBadpoints or NPCpoints would be better.
I always feel super nervous when I watch videos explaining what incels are because a lot of the stuff they internalize (ie the hopelessness and "perma-virgin" logic) echoes in me and I simply can't ignore it. It's terrifying to think that I, a gay man who wants desperately to be an ally for trans rights, have ANYTHING in common with what is nothing more than a misogynistic hate-group of hyper-depressed nerds. I'm glad your videos go more in-depth because you're the first one to also explain that a disproportionately high amount of people online are extremely introverted (myself included, paired with crippling social anxiety), and that a lot of those feelings that I share with incels are common in introverts full stop. It's relaxing to realize that yes, you can have things in common with terrible people (for example, I'm a white man with some German descent. Hitler is also a white man with German descent. That doesn't make me a Nazi.) without that automatically making one a terrible person themself.  Basically, what I'm saying is, kind of like how you explained here, I sympathize with the Incels on some levels, they just take it to an extreme and absurd level that is beyond what can be considered rational thinking. It's okay to sympathize with the _slightly_ rational side (ie "my only experiences with dating have resulted in horrible experiences, something must be wrong with me" logic, which is a natural conclusion to come to), as long as you don't allow yourself to sink to their level or begin to think the way they do completely - which I don't.
"fuckable skulls"  flashbacks to full metal jacket
i'm involuntarly celibate, does that mean im automatically an incel?
I couldn't even tell that you're a tranny until you specifically said it; I thought you were a woman at first. I'd say you've done a pretty dang good job at transitioning. And that's coming from somebody who doesn't think that most transgender people look anything remotely close to being females.
I don't think you look like a man with your bones at all. But we're always your own biggest critic.
You are gorgeous, and have a lovely skull from what I can see.
learning about these communities feels like some corkboard and string true detective yellow king shit, just staring with the most disgusted look while ominous music gets louder and louder
The Bloke calling himself a bread scientist is standing in front of a bread machine. He can't even be bothered to knead his own bread. "just put this mix in a machine, and now I am scientist."
Blaming factors they can't control (i.e. skeleton) for their rejection allows incels to write off any personal responsibility for their failure. If nothing can be done about it, it's not their fault and they don't have to actually try to do anything about it. In reality we women dig dudes who see us as autonomous humans deserving of respect instead of evil programmed sexdroids.
"The inherent eroticism of the sea." <3 T H I S
Besides the actual topic of the video, I did notice a pattern of something like cofirmation bias, though that's not the word for the thing I mean.  Essentially, on some basis, having someone tell you that you are right can feel satisfying, even if the other party is making negative comments. Look at the comedic practice of Roasting: where one person makes comments, ranging from pithy nitpicks to actual, genuine criticism, but for fun! Watch any comedy central roast, the ones being roasted who aren't having a good time are the outliers.   Shit, look at CinemaSins. Its a roast, its not meant to be taken as legitimate, rational criticism, and they've built a fucking business off the idea. On some level, we in the west seem to find it satisfying to be told "you're wrong, you're bad, you're a piece of shit." I said confirmation bias but I guess it would be more confirmation of biases? Confirmational euphoria?
This is also what happens when a large group of people who lack a simple answer get together and give up on trying to find it.
That sea definitely had me going.
Seems they self radicalise in a similar way to Islamic extremists and some far right extremists.
Phrenology is the "science" of skulls you are looking for. It also started racism, Nazism, the native American genocides, the wholesale of body parts from Australia, and many other atrocious human behaviors.
I'm forever alone because I don't love women, I'm not interested in emotions. I'm ok with that. Does that make me an incel? I would love to have fuck buddies, but I'd rather avoid the drama and pregnancy possibilities. *takes the black pill* roflll. seriously, I think most incels have a 15 year old maturity level.
"the more sophisticated adult version"
that ending was the sexiest way anyone has ever told me to get out of my room.
Wow...I came to your channel in response to the STDWYTK's podcast they did about incel's. They highly recommend your channel as someone who explains what incels are and sheds light on how they think. I am so glad they did because I loved this video. I loved the way you give a little bit of yourself to the viewer in a way to show them what you are trying to explain through your own life and experiences. Thank you, you have a new subscriber. I'm looking forward to watching more of your videos. K
You bitch, you just tricked me into cultivating a fetish for thunderstorms.
I think contra is 100% what the world needs right now. PS: don't cut it off!
You’re absolutely brave for not only looking at this topic but also understanding and sympathizing with their self-loathing and the twisted way that it manifests itself.
But these incels know this is all bullshit, right?
wow you are trans? you look good
Fucking chris chan got laid. The bar is set so fucking low that you have to dig under it. And thats what they do
One hates to cite existentialist ideas in polite company, but maybe people seek these identities out because being an incel is somehow better than having no identity and no community at all.  They might make themselves miserable, but at least they aren't alone their misery.  I'm a Catholic, we make ourselves miserable a lot, but we do it knowing there a millions of other Catholics out there who understand us.  We could easily give it all up and become depraved sinners who whistle on the Sabbath and watch PG-13 movies, but who wants to whistle on the Sabbath and watch PG-13 movies ~~~~~~~ALONE~~~~~~~~?
Im still black pill but i like you contra
Hello, lobster here. I need to state that, you ma'am, are the embodiment of the spirit that gets into the unknown and faces the Leviathan.
Natalie I... I'm in love with you
These incels should start listening to metal. I'm pretty average looking, a little chubby with a bit of a patchy neckbeard (can't grow a good one to save my life and look like a child without one), glasses, round chin and long hair, yet among the ogres that dominate the metal scene, I'm basically a male supermodel. Never had any problems getting female attention both at concerts and on metal-specific dating sites. Then again, I'm pretty sociable and not a self-loathing misogynist, so maybe that also factors into things...
ew this is gross
Why did I wait so goddamn long to watch this video?
I thought I was going to be a virgin for a long time too. I was nerdy and only a small friend group in high school. I am also super oblivious to hints. Lastly I am overweight and don’t have a great body, but I do not shame myself and was on the swim team. 2 years ago my still girlfriend was very shy and had her mom, ask my mom for my phone number. The incels don’t realize that they’re trying to “date up” as well. I believe personality is the most important, but it’s ironic that they are trying to attract a certain type of girl that doesn’t want them even though there are millions of women that feel then can never get a guy because the guys are trying to date “Stacys”. Everyone tries to date people more attractive then themselves before truly learning who that person is.
I just discovered your channel and oh my! Watched two 30 min videos that felt like 5 min, combined. Thank you, and keep it up! Yes, besides very, very intelligent, you're also gorgeous. Cheers from a white, heterosexual Brazilian male
Didn’t really expect this to go the ecosexual route by the end.
That reddit post made me so fucking disguised
Jordan Peterson is dad and Contrapoints is mom. Thank you for making this video.
As a transwoman it makes me sad to hear about transwomen downing other transwomen in this cycle of self loathing. This "depression" culture in general needs to stop where having depression/mental-illness is portrayed as a cool thing and not changable and even the attempt of trying to change and get out of it is scoffed at. You wont get out of a hole by digging it deeper at somepoint you have to start trying to get up.
creature
Who else came here from the Stuff They Don't Want You To Know podcast?
Got here through the “stuff they don’t want you to know” podcast. Thanks for doing the research and for balanced explanation. Be well, be happy and exactly as you wish to be.
Behold, the dangers of the internet, echo chambers, and not teaching men how to deal with rejection.
Huh.
Man I tried talking to an incel on one of their selfie threads. I gave him a couple of picture taking tips, and he followed through. Dude was legitimately hot, I mean I (a bi man) would be hitting on him all. Damn. Day. I was of course called a liar and given excuses. It’s so sad. Dude could legitimately be a “chad” if he just literally tried to be positive about himself.
Oh my god this was like....such a good video
I love you.
Are white incels called "honkycels"? That would be hilarious.
Tom Holland is not a stereotypical-looking dude, but so many women thirst after him.
Wait. What about women who do work hard, and keep up their looks.
Lol. These incels can't get dates because they are creepy assholes. Bone structure and skeleton structure have nothing to do with it.
This video and the bits on JBP are the only videos that I have genuinely enjoyed seeing on your channel. Of course, you are being an advice-y hunk of doo-doo at (blissfully rare) times, as in the glorious "so I am able to understand your trouble (to some extent), but there's the sea" ending, nevertheless you manage to be insightful and meaningful... more than half of the total timespan, which is kind of a big deal for YT. Can't see any factor that would make your videos truly re-watchable, but you already have a sturdy fanbase with enough time to shit on... ...still, took me a few minutes to write this, oops, the end of my earthly set of steps is so much closer now. Glad if you're getting some good dough, this kind of insanely elaborate videos really serve their purpose - helping people know that other people have different flavors of misery, despair and venting mechanisms (who would've thought?), and then carry on with their lives and watch some more funneh YT vids.
On a totally irrelevant note to the video  I like your black fingernails, its supervillian classy
Womb transplants are now a thing, Ms Cockbaine. ;)
The erotic reading of incel fiction made me incredibly uncomfortable  And my fanfiction selection is almost entirely smut, but where the fiction comes from matters
That part where you were tapping on the skull and speaking softly was the best ASMR I've ever experienced.
omg that ASMR moment though.
you're gorgeous
What
I'm not sure if this video is analyzing a sub group or belittling it. Yeah a lot of what youtube has to be is entertainment but somehow this strikes a sickly tone for me, like maybe there is some truth behind their dispair. Illusions like theirs come from someplace and it's more difficult to convince anyone of an idea of nothing about the idea connects with reality. This is a natural extreme of any alternate world view living among it's own, evolving, and becoming completely inconsolable. Feminism has a strikingly similar narrative going on. In some ways they're not even opposites but mirrors to each other. Now I'm less one to despair for the future recently but the conflicting view points of the modern era suggest we're in for some kind of poor outcome.
you are so damn funny I love it
Really agree with the ‘Stuff they don’t want you to know’ podcasts’ recommendation, great video 🍷fascinating topic
I wish more people had a sense of humor like yours.  Then everyone would be fricken hilarious.😂
I've seen a lot of recommendations about this channel, let's give it a shot.  "At least these pricks care enough about my pussy to be an asshole about my dick."  Subbed
Why don’t they fuck within the community and defeat their stupidity.
I love you forever
phsiognomy and craniology both have a long and ignominious histories among the pseudosciences. see lombroso's studies on physiognomy re criminality, or references to them in the infamous nazi propoganda film 'the eternal jew' (1940).  if incels are not getting f*cked as much as they imagine they have a god-given right to be, consider the following:  self-pity is not an aphrodisiac.  wilfully attributing one's negative personality traits to pseudoscience (rather than address as one's responsibility to improve upon) stinks of ignorance.  the stink of ignorance is not an aphrodisiac.  your insecurities are your responsibility. it is no one's obligation but your own to make you feel better about them. challenge them, overcome them, learn to accept what you cannot change.  clinging to insecurities which you will not take responsibility for or challenge is not an aphrodisiac.  treating women (treating anyone) as less than human makes you less than human, not them.  being less than human... is not an aphrodisiac.
The Tinder/‘sacred passage’ made me fucking scream, I love your channel and your commentary to no end.
Who watched this video after listening to the podcast stuff they don't want you to know about?
Thank you for educating me about digital self harm, I’m a cis woman and lately I’ve been hating my body more than usual , and recently I’ve been on a kick of been super critical of my skull, like hating how big it is compared to my body, thinking it’s wrong ,and obsessing over it , now I realize it’s a pattern in self loathing 😳
Girl, you are so beautiful and smart.
Wait... Kate Winslet and Cher had a daughter?!?
22:29 Completely off topic, but I have that same ring that you have on your pinky! :D
Why do you sound like Brian Stelter
I'm sorry but the most intimate way a woman can accept you is letting you sit on the toilet and shit while she's in the shower
I really want to listen to what you're saying, but that voice you're using sounds so fake and annoying. Why? Just talk normally.
Fuck. I just realized I'm an incel. I gotta stop this right fucking now.   Thanks for the video, you made me realize that.
Young people that are growing up on the internet, especially the ones that learn about the world through 4chan, need this kind of guidance
speaking about incels , coming from a tranny   kkk i get it
Nice. My first view of ContraPoints. Thanks. I didn't know what the term incel meant. I love the way you present your material. BTW, I'm not a Chad neither an incel. I'm somewhere in between there, more like a pick up artist.
I'v been avoiding watching this video for months because knew it would make me feel sick....and I was right, I cannot fathom treating another human being so awfully because you can't get laid. Very good video tho!
I'm so glad I found you. You're a goddamn icon. While I've done a lot of research on incels, I'm actually really devastated to hear about TTTT.
Hé bravo ! C'était super intéressant ! Et j'en sais plus sur les incels. FIN.
I was taught that mouth breathing can cause nasal deformations... which can cause your facia structure to look like “incels” weird
Yo, what these guys got against Becky?  Becky seems cool....
I feel as though your measures taken on your own skull rather undermine all the joking around with skulls you've done through the video.   incels have always mentioned facial surgery as an option.
You did a good job of explaining the whole thing but only those of us who didn't really know what it was learned anything because people that deep in can't see the hand reaching out, whether there is hair on the knuckles or not. Love the storm and ocean metaphors!
i don't like your SJW slant on things but find you interesting nonetheless
First time viewer. I think I'm in love. Your voice is so smooth and I love the amount of research you did.  You got yourself a new fan !
lmao your content is so good
The part about tinder really made me think about how i approach women on the internet, it was the perfect video for me in this moment of my life. Thank you.
Didn't know anything about incels before, now I think I might have some in my friends and that I almost turned to one myself, except at the time these internet communities weren't there to twist your brain (cells).  Really makes you think. Eyes opened, again !
I don't think you look like a man, btw pls make more skull asmr.
Hopefully healing catastrophizing fool who luckily points the side effects at its self and only its self watches a youtube video to learn about incels to decide if its worth exploring it and decides hell no! and is finally able to put a name to something happing inside his mind after years. Fucking thank you for making this vid.
I find it interesting that incels claim that all women are trying to sleep with 'more desirable' men and resent that yet do you notice that they themselves always imagine themselves with super models as opposed to 'normies'.   I can't help but think that if these guys didn't subscribe to these ideas they'd have a much better chance at getting laid.
this vid has been in my recommended for weeks now and im very glad i finally watched it
A transvestite talking for women, to funny. You wish you could have what I have had.
... Sooo, whenever a guy claims to having been "red pilled", it's a red flag for normal people? Good to know.
that "...........Interesting." was brilliantly delivered (as is all your content)
ur a dude right
Also, your style reminds me of  a female nerd city. Totally awesome.
God dammit natalie is gorgeous
Okay, really random but I have to tell someone who knows incel language about this. I met a couple where the womans name was STACY and  the mans name was CHAD.   INCEL. NIGHTMARE.
CHADPREET *dead*
Probably the best video I've seen done about incels.
20:40 I get that radio silence is lonely, or at least sexually frustrating. It is also incredibly lonely to know that 99% of your male friends don't give a shit about you and are only acting like they care about you because they want to get with you. When men complain about being 'friend zoned', I think: well at least you get a friend out of that situation. That is, someone who actually appreciates your company, wants to hang out with you because of who you are, not just because they're getting or hoping to get sex out of it. Sexual frustration and loneliness are not the same thing-and between the two, I'd much rather be sexually frustrated than completely alone.
literately the biggest problem that these guys have is that they get in their own way. I have met some VERY attractive men who ended up just sucking the energy from me with their self-loathing. So where I considered dating them before they opened their mouth, I immediately backed away as soon as the words "I am a loser, I never even kissed a girl, I'm ugly" came out of their mouths. I would try to reassure them and often I say (because its true) Confidence is key! But they already blame the world for everything so nothing I say would make a difference. Thats when you run because even if you date these guys, the relationship would be beyond toxic. On the other hand, I've seen men who were not as attractive (trying to be nice here!) in deep and commited relationships because Ay you guessed it: Confidence. They didn't go around spewing about how ugly they were and disgusting and would never meet a woman. No they just went out there with kindness and confidence and found someone that perfectly fits with them. Another huge one is also: they actually respect the women they are with, thats why incels will die alone with their waifu.
You do fine work contrapoints.    although i cant say i agree with all your views,   out of all the left leaning media out there, i really appreciate your more ballanced approach to these issues.   you have a fine mind,  and i must say,  nice eyebrows.       also i think watching you has softened my middle aged views of some of these subject.   that in itself is quite impressive.  keep up the good work.
A decent video and is informative. I personally think there are misconceptions in here. Re the red pill etc. Its not all about online communities, these are realities based in evolutionary psychology. They are not things believed by people online, they are the realities of the way people behaved. And as a person who grew up before the internet it held true for those times and now has just been dialled up. This refers to the 80%of women chasing the 20%. This may have been 50% before and now just rarifies mens chances alot more and leaves women lonely or having failed in their lives because of unrealistic ideas and now have very easy access to the men who will just do anyone. Many more points in here too that are not accurate. For instance mgtow, very few men are voluntary celibate, they will either have occasional ons or occasional girlfriends but are a bit more informed by the red pill. Really pua/red pill mgtow is almost one thing and incel are just a tiny, more unwell rendition of the male species and no more unlovable than most puas who think they have anything going for them. A good hearted message overall.
Love your work. Doing our best to play rousing music to give lonesome folks the heart to ask that gorgeous whomever to dance, you know?
Its nice original your chanel. Its dommage i dont understand too much english can you speak tell in french?
I came here to dislike all your videos (but I am subscribed to you forever).
Watched this video yesterday for the first time and I'm still thinking about it now. The analysis presented is nothing short of magisterial. But more than that, I'm astounded by how many other things it manages to be: erudite and insightful; vulnerable yet utterly devastating; beautiful in both its presentation and use of language; hauntingly hilarious. Madam, you are a class act! More please!
Holy shit I thought this Roosh is a paid actor not a real person before I watch another video from Natalie referring him 😂🤣😂🤣😂 a real person can never be that stupid omg
Imagine we transfer the guy wrote the text in the beginning into videogame Lisa's universe. in Lisa there're tons of dudes delusioning how women feel like but not a single woman except Buddy(who is hella strong and ready to kick men's balls because her stepdad trained her to.)
"I am ultra masculine, as you can see."
all possible gods bless your completely unique strain of existentialism. wellness and gladness, natalie.
Oh no, I kind of wish I didn't watch this.  I think I'm a TTTT.... :(
Oh, contrapoints... I just want to hug you 😟  I’m a ciswoman with a 62cm head. People don’t notice my giant noggin unless I tell them I can’t buy hats (even in the men’s section). The head stuff is just... not accurate.
Im gonna fuck the ocean
fuck natalie, just found out about you, jumping into the rabbit hole, enjoying every second of it and relishing in the victorian-lovecraftian-witchery vibe of your dark beautiful soul. You're sensible, disruptive, caring, outrageous, passionate, weird and complex in the best ways I've ever seen. you-are-fucking-awesome and somehow I hate ya a little bit. kinda like a perfect wrestling heel at the edge of turning face.
Foppington's law reminded me of the "three-dots" rule from Django Unchained.
I'm shocked how brilliant this is.
I'm new to the terms incel and blackpill.  As you've described them here, they are really fucked up and not positions to take in life, clearly.  Redpill I'm familiar with and you have described pretty well.  I think there is some truth to this information, but it's much more positive and I believe acceptable to adopt.  Redpill is knowing that you can learn and become the alpha, so much better than incel or blackpill, that shit is fucked up.
I have to say, it's shockingly easy not to get laid as a man and not act like a fucking bigoted moron.
no god damn way you are old enough to remember 1975! i was born in 85, you look younger then me.
Chad is cool Stacy likes Chad because he's a professional athlete who wears provocative clothing and has a six inch mohawk.
You're a beautiful woman. Wow
Pre-Op, am I right?
i think transcels have it harder than cis incels and cis femcels
why you put incels under tha red pill catagory? all incels are black pilled
not all incels are men women can also be virgin
I have been binge watching your videos. Seriously can not get enough of your views, the in-depth research and opinions. Is it wrong to love your Aesthetics for each and every video?
cant tell if i hate your voice or just mildly like it
Roosh just told that being a man who likes booty means you have homosexual tendencies, and that he's a 'boob' man. Roach's fragile masculinity ages like fine wine.
Test.
15:43 that dude on the right has an astonishing resemblance to Young Josef Stalin.
I had to stop the video twice because my forehead hurt from cringing. Damn, these dudes are twisted in the brain.  Good video anyway
What was the problematic thing
I mean, they say all that shit about skulls and bone structures defining you forever, but I hadn't really clocked you as a trans woman until you started talking about fuckholes, so there's that.  EDIT: I did think you were a smoker, but voice is not really related to bone structure anyway.
Hmm. I think I tend to catastrophize. Then rationalize, which helps a bit, but hearing about that makes things make a whole lot more sense.
Skull implants available here at www.chadmynoggin.cel, hun's donate and you feel great! Red pill Jan Sale on jaw-lines, butt-chins and brow-ridges. All 100% humanoid bone guaranteed to fill her needs.   Check out our selection of premium Neanderthal boosters reserved for our most discerning customers.   All purchases before the next full moon get a free Russian Homunculus starter kit for you to grow hair replenishing mucus in the comfort of your own home.
God I thought you were a terf lmfaoooo, so glad youre the opposite! You got a new trans sub binch
Hi! I'm a psychology student really interested in how the internet can effect mental health - do you have some references for your section on digit self harm
:0 I didnt know you were trans!! god bless
"The 25 gay men who actually like Milo Yiannopoulos" I'm fucking dying 😂
First time I found one of your video. Really good! deserve more than a like for the though that it gives.
I ran out of weed :(
Great and very informative video! This is a sensitive subject,  but it's one that has to be exposed, like you said one spark can erupt these Incels into violence.  One disagreement I have is your view on hypergamy. That's actually true, although it's not as big of a deal as those people make it out to be, Its really not a bad thing at all, but that's a topic for another video.  Also, another disagreement I have is your view on men being scared of women leading them and being stuck with the bill. That's a legitimate fear I have also, that's why it's most important only marry who you really trust and not for looks or status. Anyway, again High Praise to your video. I guess one thing liberals and conservatives can agree on is "We must fix this incel problem". One more thing, if you hadn't said you were once a man, I never would have known. So if you haven't anxieties about that, don't. You can accept this compliment or not but, I thought you were very attractive actually. So yeah no worries. All right time for me to start binging on your other videos. Later
Who the hell is presenting this video? She’s HILARIOUS. I love everything about this! ... I mean, except for the misogyny. That part kinda sucks.
Just would like to point out that " normie " can also be used by literally any fandom or group of specific people that talk about a specific thing to talk about people who aren't in that community. For example, you're a Potterhead and you are talking to another Potterhead about Harry Potter stuff on tumblr or whatever place Potterheads gather, then I , who don't know much about Harry Potter somehow get into that discussion, then I would be the normie in the situation. Other word used is " casual ", " Oh he's a casual/normie, he's not into deep in the Potterverse ".   Otherwise, amazing video, just couldn't let that slide because I use the word " normie " and I don't want to be confused with a fucking incel ... I might have to switch to the classic word " casual " . I've just discovered this chanel, I'm having a blast watching it.
I woke my kids up cackling at this genius commentary.   Take all my subscriptions, I want more!
I lost my shit at chadsplaining bravo!
Wow this is a masterpiece how did I not see this sooner
great video, also watching this from the future and seeing your newer videos, also great work on that widows peak
i had an experience with an “incel” who was borderline assaulting me and my friend, and yeah he did have a lot of suicidal ideation/thoughts luckily the situation turned out good, we carefully told him that we would refuse to talk to him because of how he was treating us, and that if he could improve then he’d be able to talk to us again.  he eventually made some friends, got out of his rut, learned that he was a person of value and that feminism and women weren’t the source of his problems and improved
So I just wanted to say after watching this, you do more than pass. I am actually a little jealous of how you look. And I didn't clock you as trans until you actually stated that you were. So you do you. Also thanks for informing me on the incel world.
I really love your videos and how you address such delicate issues. And you're soooo gorgeous ❤️❤️ Never stop, please ❤️❤️
This was oddly satisfying.
Great summary.   I think this did more than describe incels but also reveals a bit about people's traditional thought processes about sexuality and how it is continuing to evolve.   As a 'normie' cis whatever the hell you would call it guy, I think other similar guys need to be more exposed to this to become more comfortable as things continue to change.   Keep it up.
this is absolutely brilliant. i don't think anyone could have explained the topic in a more intelligent and painfully accurate way.
I had no idea you're a transgender, until you said so. You're beautiful. Love this video. I subscribed after watching.
ContraPoints has no idea how a woman feels, he is not a woman!
i didn't know you were trans until you said it! fuck the whole bone structure debate, queen you are beautiful!
You're already iconic
Yeah so you being a man before is not exactly a surprise. It's also not a big deal... you do you.  Howevber ... but for finding a woman who saw beyond my introversion I could have been an incel. Dodged a bullet there.
Lol oh my... I must say that for a group of people who are so profoundly alienated from the opposite sex, they certainly have formed a intricate theory of female psychology. How the utter irrationality of that escapes so many of them tells you all you need to know about them.
@contraPoints , your videos are so insightful with regular points of laughter on some interesting, not-well reported topics. Really appreciate your work; hope you make more interesting videos ^.^! Just wanted to let you know you have a fan.
Is this person a dude or a girl or a they.  Cant tell.
You are such an inspirational woman!! Logical honest and intelligent! That lighting makes you glow!!
can i just say you really are gorgeous and at first i thought you were a cis woman
Ha! Your skeleton is too small? Dude the guy from Brazil who is covered in body hair and is known as the wolf boy has a girlfriend!
You're gorgeous and you don't need surgery. That being said do what makes you feel beautiful because you are !
I love you!!!!
Thank you for your amazing work, ContraPoints. The content is always so high quality in editing, subject, and style. But I just wanted to say, you're hairstyle and makeup is GORGEOUS. W-would you ever do a fun makeup/hair tutorial?
This has only been my second ContraPoints video, so I'm still holding my opinion as to if I like her material.  I am pointing that out to try and make it clear that I'm not just an ego stroking fan, but sincere with my observation.  I did not realize she was a trans woman until she pointed it out in the first video.
lmAO
I think this is one of the best videos covering this topic. Most videos on YT usually just mock them without analyzing the causes of their behavior.
I just compared myself to the Chad look and i fit perfectly. Except my back and neck arent straight. This makes me concerned for my nerdiness.  I also play sports, with a bunch of normies, and i nearly perfectly fit in.
What do Incels think about lesbians?
I love how incels say that they would never date a "Becky" and want a "Stacey", but then say that Stacey's only want Chads......aren't they theoretically doing the same thing as the "Stacey"? Hypocritical much. Also, as my husband and I were talking about, women don't want these men not because they have a "virgin" or "feminine" face, but because they are misogynistic and f*cking weird. Thus why there are so many "feminine" and "virgin" men around the world with girlfriends.....because it has nothing to do with this. These incels are just filled with hate and their personalities are horrid....it has nothing to do with looks.
“every ounce.” Holy shit, how many “ounces” do you fucking have?
Contrapoints: comparing skull/jaw shapes between groups is obsessive eugenicist nazi pseudoscience. Also Contrapoints: I'm obsessed with the shape of my skull/jaw and whether it's feminine enough and not still too masculine. I guess I know know what the Contra part of your name is an abbreviation of...
Wow. Such an incredibly engaging, well put together video. Thank you so much, brilliant content!
I love your voice.
Coming from a straight white man I have to congratulate you for crafting such a well thought out video, I had no idea incels were so self destructive among their peers and fuck if that isnt a shame. I hope these people can figure out that they are their own worst enemies. I havent been in a relationship for 8 years personally due to a struggle to get back out there after heartbreak but I have never thought that it was anyones fault but my own so I can see both sides of the incel argument and still I think they are woefully pessimistic. P.s. I think you dont need more surgery to look feminine, I am quite pleased to say I find you to be quite attractive. I am not confident that I would start a relationship with a tran, due to societies effects on my sexuality, but if I were to decide to do that you make me feel at ease that it would not be the world view changing thing that its often made out to be. I hope that I came across properly, its a volitile climate these days and I no longer know what offends people so I hope I didnt say anything wrong. Thanks for the video anywho, very informative, you got a new subscriber here.
Is it just me or I never thought her as a woman until she mentioned she was trans
I'm always ready to forgive if a person is ready to move on!
d-did you just suggest playing guitar and swimming naked as solutions to people who aren't having sex? like as an alternative solution to.... uh, pleasing oneself (masturbating)
"monster" girl there looks like a flight attendant, i swear i've seen that look in a movie actually, very nice, why monster though?
lmfao, did you just call that guy a twink? isn't that a derogatory term for homosexuals? i mean being an incel, isn't he not gay by default? hence why he went coko bananas and did that
22:20 you don't at all look like a man, buy yourself a porsche instead (jaguar is more of a mans car, though unisex) and honestly, even if you do, even if there are hints, you are far too beautiful as a woman for that to change anything/matter to others, now i do know some things are just upsetting and it's personal, i'm just saying (kinda like me being trans at all tbh, or at least having facial dysphoria, i'm seen as an attractive guy (mostly recently, before people lied and bullied and harmed me/beat me up saying i was ugly the whole time.... while strangers all said i was good looking (or my trigger word.... "handsome")) so likely doesn't work that way for you either, my logic is just "you're so close, do you really need to get any closer?"
19:00 the surgery doesn't actually involve cutting it off, there is more too it than that, to keep the nerves and such intact, i had terrible nightmares for a long time because guys kept asking me that and then one got angry and told me i had to, well in the dream this was in person and then they pulled out a knife and tried to do it for me when i kept saying i don't know if i want the surgery and that i think i don't, and not having that means that you can't have a sensate vagina made, and the whole thing is that for me, i'm attached to being able to have easy access frontal pleasure, and my prostate is desensate (like not able to work, edging forever, and with no front..... well you get the picture) and one of the things that worries me about the surgery, other than that i have never been under the knife other than when i was born (complications), is that it may not fully become sensate, as it is i know at least one trans girl who can't easily achieve orgasm and it's almost a special occasion for her with a lot of prep and setup, i'm sure she isn't the only one, i doubt that it's just as easy as before just inverted
17:40 it's not ("it's not unusual to be loved by anyone", that just jumped into my head, ugh) that unusual actually, it's pretty common that at some stage, or even with hormones, as trans girls we start to gain attraction to males, my theory is that we were trans way earlier and in fact slightly homophobic, we were accepting, but the stigma was still there, but once we got into a world of open acceptance, we started to like people just because you like them, not because they are in your set type that you are allowed to like, we stopped seeing gay straight bi and only saw those terms as used to quickly explain things to others, then moving along the line till we were bi, or at least a bit, then as things progressed to feeling more like yourself and more like a girl, norms and gender roles took over yet again, semi toxically making you think that you should be with guys more because you're a girl, then you kinda just like it, or go back to full bi, or at least that's my experience and projected theory, your mileage may vary
I love how incels think it's all because theyre ugly while they shit on "femoids" everyday, yea lad it's definitely not because you're a fucking creep who thinks women are here only to continue our species yea yea yea go on about your tiny wrists
i hope you were just making light of his calling it masculine and scientific when you mocked by saying baker and then saying bread scientist, i just hate gender roles and such, gendering tasks and even items, that whole thing
ok that escalated quickly at the beginning like wow
i mean, i'm trans and a virgin of advanced age (26 now) but i don't blame anyone in that regard, i blame myself not finding out who i was sooner, at least 8 years sooner, before i moved to a remote location (ominous as it sounds), but i have dealt with the entitled so much now that i started my journey, i once thought this shit was all memes (i feel the chad and such comparisons stil are and are a joke, but who knows tbh) it was weird being told i owe someone my body, (i'm weird so to me it was kinda hot, but whatever) but it was even weirder and ruder seeing the reaction and recoiling away after i told them i am actually indeed genetically male and therefore trans, i was amazed how it was all about just believing they had a birth right to anything other than the already basic human rights of course, you know the ones made to ensure everyone is treated in a manner that does no/harm to another by default
Now I understand... Orange Man is trying to recreate the Great Wall of China to keep out the hons. :O
gosto da música atrás
Amazing work, Contra!
Broke: Manlet Woke: H E I G H T L E T
Hebrides Overture. <3 One of my favourite pieces. *mashes subscribe a large odd number of times!*
Hi Stacy,   IT'S TRACY.
oh fuck as a pre-transition trans girl, the trans section of this video hit fucking hard
Women would never *EVER* be attracted to some boy who claims themselves a helpless victim to society. Also, if you’re hating on your own genetics why would a woman want them anymore than you?
that's a long word.... "every ounce of your porterhouse ribeye steak"
*Someone let these guys touch a boob so they can move on with their lives.*
you are attractive
wtf XD
"Unobtainium"
Adopt me pls
My friend randomly sent me a text about the eoroticism of the sea and now I'm hooked on this. What have you done to me?
I started watching the video and was like "wait, new host? I wonder if a guy and a girl do different videos on here, I used to watch this channel and I've never seen a video with a female host". That must be a good sign for you x)
"I am not proud of that..." :-D
For...umm...purely scientific reasons, could you describe the sea and rainstorms for an hour or two?
Was that Philosophy Tube?
Wow, you are very informative, very interesting!! New sub ! :)
I really like your style! Reporting the facts. It's cool
thank you for taking this topic so seriously. I know I am naive sometimes, I can be very idealistic, but when I say these people need help, I'm being serious Thank you for making this video, its really well done
Прекрасная и такая сострадательная...
wthhh id bang pre op idk if that makes me gay but it dodnt matter cus ur personality is bangin
Your aesthetic is everything ♥ ♥
You make quality content. I've only seen a couple of your videos so far, but it's engaging and funny.   I also enjoy the work of Jordan Peterson, Sargon, and Count Dankula too. But I feel some of their fans have heavily misrepresented you, and your videos.
I shared "Hands always prepared to grab nearby fertile pussy", I was then asked where I found that, I linked this video into a Discord server - on that server there were multiple people who I forgot were transphobic and they all didn't realise you were trans, so I mean if they didn't realise until you started talking about it then you're fine.
Wait so...you just had those phrenology calipers lying around then?
Would never have guessed until you said "Im trans" 😂😂👌🏻👌🏻
Sounds like they need their heads pulled out of their butts.
you've been in my recommended videos for a while but this is the first video I've seen of yours - holy shit you're awesome, what a fantastic break down of a subculture. You treated the subject so fairly and with such grace.  I've got to start watching more of your videos!
I'm deep to my neck in incel forums and I feel that for personal reasons my case is even worse. I try to leave, but it's a strong addiction that I always come back to and it becomes worse every time. I really need help, but I don't know what to do. The blackpill is so ingrained in my mind that I can't go back to normal again, and it's making me hate myself and people around me more and more to the point where suicide is always on my mind. A normal person who don't know the details of the community could never help me, they would never understand how this works. I wish someone with your knowledge about the community and how all that shit works could help me, but I know it's almost impossible. I don't know what to do anymore, for real.
The incel rant at about 32:10 gives me chills every time. It's honestly terrifying, and *_aS a TrAnS mAn_* it feels so weird to know that there are men out there who genuinely think like that, they would've thought that about you at some point, and now they'd wanna bro out with you and expect that you also hold those thoughts & feelings (at least to a certain degree), as though you're alike and you're part of the 'better' gender class so you're okay and not a brainless Stacy roastie femoid. An equal, like something is fundamentally 'better' about you when nothing about you as a person has changed from when they would've hated you and stared in seething bitter resentment with barely covered rage just because you happened to exist around them. Even guys who you wouldn't expect it from, which makes me think of all the times I'd spoken with men as someone they perceived to be a woman and just wanna vomit. I mean, it didn't take being trans or transitioning for me to think or feel these things, obviously, it's just a whole different experience going from the target of it to being expected to engage in it. Really makes me re-evaluate a lot of past experiences knowing what I know now.
Have these guys been introduced to Las Vegas?
Is this real? Are people actually like this and think this way? Scary. This video is very well constructed, informative, and aesthetically pleasing. I guess I'll go down this rabbit hole of knowledge.
This video makes me wonder what incels thinks of lesbians and/or gay guys, but I feel like I already know the answer to that question soooOOO
This is deep.  Very true
To be honest, I've seen this vid pop up in my feed a bunch, and I didn't know you were a trans woman until you said it.  Also, Love your style, I wish I could look as good in sequins as you do.
i didnt know you were transgender
This is the first video I have watched of you and I fucking loved it. The part about "masochistic epistemology" really spoke to me. Why can't we just love ourselves and accept the love we get from others? It's so important. Thank you for making me think.
please do not mess up the bone structure of your face, you're beautiful the way you are
meus deus que drag linda e inteligente <3 "My god, what a beautiful and intelligent drag.<3"
I subbed because of this video. I love how you go between different points of view. Keep being awesome.
Sorry for the word wall, but...  I hate to be the devil's advocate, because I was MGTOW myself at some point. But, when it comes to things like plastic surgery, or changing yourself physically to make yourself attractive. I think that women who do this, WITHIN REASON, are being proactive and refusing to give in to despair of their situation. Incels just give up.  They don't want to go to the gym, and put in the effort of dieting and working out, they don't want to get a job, earn an income, spend on surgery to make themselves more attractive, etc. Work hard, and become satisfied with themselves and their own lives to some extent.  They're always looking for satisfaction through the eyes of others. And, while that is exactly what surgery and physique does, as well as many accomplishments in this meaningless existence. It is only, a small part of making yourself happy with who you are, for the time we are here.  It just seems like another, "boohoo, the world is unfair, woe is me" situation. The world IS a vicious place. Maybe, I'm being too harsh, I dunno...?
Glorious! This video was so eloquent, witty and down to earth. Keeping it classy.
Hey, this was great!   Brent from Trends Like These recommended this channel on the podcast, and I had to check it out. I'm looking forward to digging through old content and seeing what new things pop up.
Okay so, I'm a 20 something introverted shit face who blissfully enjoys cartoons and anime..I don't use youtube to watch someone going into deep depth of problematic individuals of the internet a lot..I am so happy that your video popped up in my feed, I love this video. I learned something I would've never known or cared to look into..also you are fancy and look beautiful. But yeah...Ive been that sad guy in the background mostly because it's hard to approach others.feel like I am wasting their times...so...ummmm new subscriber c:     Oh guess I can say this unironically. my virgin ears(to the beginning of this video) xD
I am so happy that youtube made me find you. You. Are. Amazing.
I just met you and I love you
You're awesome. Also I think youre really lovely. I know it probably isn't much coming from a stranger on the internet, but I think your face is very feminine. Honestly though, that's not why I say you're lovely, more because you seem very kind, relatable, insightful, and humorous.
this might sound creepy but...............Thank you Goddess!
And subscribed
So... stumbled across this video and loved the majority of it minus the gross over simplification of the red pill as some sort of a misogynist covenant .  The red pill exist because of sexual strategy and because there seems to be two sets of rules for the same game . Part of it is macro... feminism isn't equality . Equality is equality . And micro if the responsibility of the paradigm of a provider  is supposed to be different .... or shared... then the rules should be reflected as such ... Fair is when people get divorced . No one should benefit financially . After all if we're equal then why would you need a man to support you financially .   Incels and black pill are for men that have a negative reaction to the truth that women don't want to bang you unless you have something to offer . Red pill is learning what to offer and to whom to offer it ...
ok this video is fantastic and educational and really well-made but also i fuckin DIE at  FFFFFEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEMOOOOOIIIIDS  every damn time
I can't get through anything past the intro.
You really did hit on the problem. Incels truly believe the fallacy that "If you can't get laid you can't ever be happy." That's what creates the desperation and ultimate morbid depression that afflicts them. If they could only understand that sex is not the all end to be all then they would focus on more positive things and, by so doing,  ironically attract a woman who will want to have sex with them.
GURL, you do not look at all like a man! You are so beautiful! I could listen to your voice all day, it is so freaking soothing. I am sure another comment from someone random on the internet doesn't matter but seriously you are total goals for this cis woman!  Also, this is the first video I have seen from you and I am so impressed with your research and clear presentation! New subbie, friend.
Thanks so much for making this video! I learned a lot of things I needed to know! I'm going to share this video as much as possible to spare the information!  Also, you're freaking beau!  Also, I'm from LA - where we use "hon" as a term of endearment - it's just short for "honey". Like "sug" is "sugar". That's really sad that people live like this, though.
Identifying as an incel and still cringing at a lot of the stuff in this video.
*FINALLY* someone understands me! Rain IS sexy, right?!
I love your videos so much, I rewatch them regularly. And I know it's been said before, but you could genuinely make a killing on asmr. Some parts of this video almost lulled me to sleep if it weren't for the abject horror of the content.
cool persona you've created here.
❝Bread Scientist❞ LOL
I don't think this is your fault, but for some reason YouTube has categorized this as a music video, so picture-in-picture is unavailable, and it's driving me insane. Stupid YouTube.
I just started watching your videos yesterday. I'm in love. Thanks, lady.
Natalie, I just finished watching your video. I commend you for your psychologically-minded, socio-politically-aware and well-researched take on this difficult subject. It was eye-opening. To be honest, I was initially expecting to hear an “incel-bashing” take on the subject (considering how easy it is for pure hatred to invite hateful backlash); instead I was treated to a thoughtful, nuanced, empathic and articulate argument. We need more people like you. Your work is the genuine antidote to this online toxicity. Keep doing your good work. 👍🏿 All the best.
"Sour Grapes!" FUCKING LOVE IT!
What abt when blind girls date lol... like did they not take tht into account
Can the Red Pill also be used as a suppository?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qhcdpM69ih4
I have such a difficult time paying attention cause I absolutely love Chopin so I was listening to the music more than her
femoids......
still trying to figure out if i watch contrapoints so much because the videos are amazing and fascinating or because natalie is such a babe  maybe it's both
Chadsplaining ! This entire video is fucking gold.
The rule of the jungle will bring the empire to fall. You may want to deny this. The only hope humanity has at this point is mgtow.
Dats some good makeup 👍
Wow I had no idea there were such POS transwomen out there.
6:52 apparently incles can't do math, that's not a few millimeters it's a few centimeters actually
Its impressive how you open up about your insecurites. That cant be easy. To make an educated emotional appeal with education. Mixed with critic.  And it is authentic. Very impressive. I see why a depressive worldview would make you reject compliment, in fact i know it first hand. Thats why the realistic  positivism in the video is impressive while being vunerable. Especially with the hun slur.  Hope you get  in philosopghy classes as fix content, and convert many self loathing toxic individuals.
Literally the first video I've watched on your channel, and what an introduction lolol. Love it.
Nice choice of voice-over, lol.
wait... I'm a woman and I have a giant head?? Am I truly destined to be a man? I better call my local *c r a n i u m  i n v e s t i g a t o r* and make sure...
I know this is not what the video is about, but at 22:13, I just want you to know that I think you are totally beautiful, and I actually didn't know you were trans at all until earlier this video when you brought it up. You just give me serious morticia Addams vibes, and I love it lol. Anyways, you should totally do whatever you want to your bone structure, to make yourself happy. I just think you're great now too. :)
Transwoman, you're a mentally ill dude who crossdress xD Get that AIDS quick and get gud
This is my first time viewing your content, and I dig it.  "Ultra-masculine bread-scientist" lolz  BTW:  36 y/o straight-arm had no idea you were trans until you said so.  I'd have totally tried to chat you up in a bar.
My first thought would be “I hope some of us girls can show them love and show that we’re not all the same” and then I remember they call women “femoids” .... Yeah nevermind
Does anybody actually listen to this creature?
Incels, strive for the love of the God of the Bible. A woman's love is totally insignificant, in comparison.
Sounds like the incels are right though.
*complains about incelness*  *refuses to go gym, develop personality, socialise, become successful via work and study, go for people at their own physicality?*
Oh my god. I am so happy that I found you!
Quality video. Also I love the kind of comedic comments you use, they're well placed and do a good job at breaking up some of the darker stuff.
Heyyy! You're in Baltimore! Me too!  Wow, it's like we're two people who happen to live in the same area!
Hey, ya look real pretty, ya know? Don’t worry about your looks, out of anything - you pass better than me! ❤️
Yeah but what about rain by the shore?
I really love you Natalie. I've been watching you a lot since I came out as full on Trans and you give me so much hope.
Madame Points, I cannot explain how much I love you and how you lay things out, please keep being amazing
Damn, didn't know incels embraced frenology.
I was not expecting this to be one of my favorite videos ever, but this is one of my favorite videos ever.
the incel logic and “rules” fall down to nothingness when the first involuntary celibate lesbian appears
Love your lighting and also you be good laddy! I'll Ta-Talk about our lives and have overall! but you are still  beautiful. I wish to be as beautiful as you.  Outer not inner
Welp... I guess Im going to go fuck the ocean now
this is such an empathetic and intelligent video essay---thank you
you are so lovely and smart ... fe or male = not care.  . . you are AWEsome as you have chosen to be. love thee  .... and me love me ~ woohoo to you. what a great show ~ new sub here; tho me be a DOMME ~  . . . what a fucn awesum sho
Hey, I'm a fairly conservative person and clicked on this hoping for a good cringe, but after watching some of your videos (some of them highly contradicting my prior views) I must say that your intelligence, creativity, humour, self-awareness, empathy and insight really got me intrigued. You seem like a wonderful person. You have a new subscriber!
Quality content. Suscribed.
I think you have a sea fetish
"Anal"
You remind me of a young Mary-Louise Parker! I liked this video, I hope some young people that *really need to see this video find it and watch it. doing great work!
I didn't know about /lgbt/'s other name and it made me bust a gut. Hopefully not offensively, the website just has a habit of poking fun at itself in simple but fun ways, a lot of the time through board and user nicknames.  Seriously fascinating video, all things well-said. I actually know fuckall about incels, as thankfully where I hang out online it's just not brought up beyond very rarely, so this was a veeery illuminating video. Also entertaining. I think I'll have to watch another
omfg i just realized that olly is doing the voiceover
that was literal art, and i loved every 35 minute of it. keep up the good work, subscribing now
This is probably my new favorite channel on YT.
You used Bioshock's font. very nice!
"Cooking is Masculine"  I like cooking, I don't give a fucking shit dude. No matter what you fuckers think
I’m glad I’ve found your channel! Your material is refreshing, well researched and hilarious! 😁
Did you know that in forensic science they use the term "sexing skulls"?  Or so I've heard.
This is so funny, yet so sad, but I can't help laughing 😂 (Why don't they just buy a hooker?)
"Therapeutic, not logical" 💓
why are you telling cis people that? because we need to be in the know!
This is actually perfect.
Omg, you’re brilliant! Hugo and Jake sent me here. I adored the matchup of music and different topics throughout the video. Subbed!
By God, your skull! Only such a magnificent skull as yours could hold that fantastic, unique, unbelievably interesting mind! Ma’am, you and that grey matter hidden away beneath those millimeters of bone have earned yourself a new subscriber.
I don't know about anyone else, but every time somebody says the term "femoid" I always think of the fembot from Austin Powers. 😂😂😂😂
I feel personally attacked by the Stratocaster comment I was literally playing my guitar as you said it. Darn you
yo ur vocabulary is beautiful af
Just one video and I am hooked, love your content and personality. Keep it up!  Now...time to binge.
I'm actually an incel, but only because my boyfriend is halfway across the world and I don't have enough money to be with him yet. Just needed to say that there are people like me.
THIS CHANNEL IS LIT. THANK YOU, COMRADE. ❤
Brilliant video. I often think about how close I was to spiraling into black pilldom (first time I've ever heard it specifically named). If I'd known about those forums when I was younger, I very well could have been much worse. Somehow, I ended up becoming a mix between a black pill & MGTOW by making my peace that I'd never be dateable. And then somehow, I finally got a gf and we're almost on 2yrs now.
"Abigail, leave my fuckhole out of this" is now my favorite sentence
bone asmr
Mental health will effect your physical brain because repetitive practice and repetitive thoughts will change how the synapses of your brain fire.
So, I’ve just stumbled across this channel, and video for the first time.  I have to say, had you not told us your story, I would have literally no idea.  I’m a cis guy, and if I had just met you out and about somewhere, I could have easily approached you for a date, and would never have known you were trans if you didn’t say anything.  I don’t say that to to hit on you, or pursue you (I’m happily committed), or for any other ulterior motive.  I say this to try and express how ridiculous criticisms between humans can be. If YOU caught flack over “not being convincing enough”, then those people would literally criticize ANYONE transitioning.  I think, as you pointed out, incels are the same way to each other. It’s criticism, masochism, meanness, and self-flaggelation, for the sake of it.  Incel is pure bullshit anyway though. It’s just not real. There are enough people in the world that NO one is “involuntarily celibate”. There is someone out there who will have sex with you, no matter who you are. You just need to learn to behave like a human being, and approach people without being a massive creeper.
I am a woman with a large skull.
So this is the best video on incels I've ever seen but also, at 6:41, her voice combined with the skull tapping gave me fucking asmr.
Omg the skull physiognomy has me rolling. Imagine defining “the master race” and then being like, “nope, we’re over here, we’re the inferior ones.”
You're the devil's advocate. I would rather be an incel than a cross-dressing degenerate, because at least i'd be trying to fit in a constructive society. You're activities work toward the destruction of our civilization whether you know it or not, I hope to God you just don't know it yet. Maybe when you're older and you look back in search of meaning and happiness one day you will understand the mistakes you are making.
No soothsayers or sorcerers will enter God's Kingdom
Impressive video. Good for you!
Very well done. If even one Incel is saved from the tragedy-of-the-commons that is (some parts of) the Internet, then that will be a good thing.
never seen this channel before, legitimately couldnt tell you were trans until you said it. sort of an "if you look its there" kind of thing.
Did you know that if you listen to the Hebrides Overture 10x in a row and sing along, Poseidon will send you a sea-nymph?
Bread scientist actually sounds awesome, but seriously, baking is for everyone & thank you to all of you who do. I think I would die without cake.
"Women"
Where did "Never Heard a Song" come from
So I realised I had some transphobia to overcome after watching this, and then I realised very VERY quickly how attracted I am to her?? She's like, the whole package.
I do feel like a lot of people just brush off how incels feel...telling them to just take a shower or lose weight or stop hating women. People stigmatize them and ignore what is CLEARLY a manifestation of depression and mental health.
"Obviously it can't be because I'm such a detestable person in both ideology and mindset that nobody is willing to sleep with me, right?"
What an unusual mix of patience, understanding, compassion, and bad-assery! (And you look great, too.)
*F E E E E E E M M M O O O I I I D*
the amount of work put into this video... seriously amazing~
Really, really indepth video - you are so right and not to mention hilarious. Subbed!!
Re:  25:30.  I am a woman, a woman has given birth twice, and my head circumference is larger than that of my husband and of one of my two adult sons.  In fact, when I was in the military, I had to special order my dress uniform hat, and it was still too small.  Yes, there ARE women with big heads.  So relax, transwomen with big heads. The incels are much scarier.  They need to get out of those forums, clean their rooms, take a shower, get a haircut, wear clean clothes and start doing some kind of sport , charity, or hobby.  These forums are poisonous for them.  Even if they don't find girlfriends by doing this (and frankly most of them eventually would find a girlfriend), they could make some real friends instead of stewing away in cyberspace and becoming weirder and weirder.
Wow. This was really good.
Women aren't attracted to men who hate themselves and women and view them as sexual objects? How surprising!
Wooooow what
The red pill theory happens, 12 years of military life I look like a chad but love cooking, reading and nerdy things. In that time I have seen this in a exhilarated form deployment money and 6 month long trips over sea the wife take the money and run off with a chad. What is the evidence or argument against their theory? You can look at statistics for evidence to fight my argument. I am marry with two kids and an incel. My wife would disagree with you even more being Asian were it its more pronounced to the point were birth rates and marriages are so low the government is in a panic that there will be no one left two generation for now. As for the rest go to a feminist website you will find the same gender hating shit from them.
Flagged for innapropiate content how dare you show a naked sea.
Natalie, I have never fallen in love with a woman's voice so fast as when you were describing the rainstorm and the ocean. 😊♥️And I'm gay af.
This has been in my recommended for a long time and I'm so glad I finally watched. Instant subscribe. Love your channel!! Keep it up!!!
You're wonderful.
Like for olly
Femoids wtf 😂🤷🏻‍♂️. Lol . Well done video I subscribed
OMG you are so intelligent and easy to watch!  I relate to *a lot* of what of what you say since I started my transition 5 1/2 months ago, but am placing a lot of value in those things you say to which I do not relate to yet.  Bravo -- please keep up the educational videos; there are so many people benefiting from what you do.  :) <3
Brilliant
Drugcels would be a sick band name
Contra....are you an aquaphile?
“what i’m suggesting is that the mansphere exist because rock ‘n’ roll is dead” made me laugh so much
"What I'm suggesting is the man hysteric exists because rock&roll is dead" is somehow one if the biggest eye-openers in a video that made me want to crawl into the center of the earth and never show myself again ksjdksjxsklszkd
I was in one of those weird and random late night youtube binges, and stumbled across this. I had no idea "Incel" was even a thing... the internet is a weird place sometimes.
Wtf? These people are a bunch paranoid, conspricy theory nutjobs.
If you hadn't said you were trans I wouldn't have known it.
too many cucks in these comments... incels are right
Blackcel Ricecel Currycel lmfao
"...the manosphere exists because rock and roll is dead."
So great if you to make this video thank you contrapoints
You can like baking as a guy.  Remember the people laughing at you aren't getting the brownies.
First video ive watched an im in love 😍
11/10. Great video
in the trans masculine community the big self loathing thing is believing you look like a butch women. Trans guys generally are supportive of butch women, but since butch women are read as female it's not what we're going for, so we have a sense of resentment for butch women and ourselves. I know im guilty of this and I hate that I am. For trans guys the unchangeable bone structure hatred is not in the face, since that changes with testosterone, but with the hips, height, and small hands and feet. the fear is not being read as male, but honestly I've seen short men and men with small hands and feet and men with feminine hips and honestly I still think they're men, and I still think they can be quite attractive.
Skull-people... hahaha. Sounds like a southpark concept.
I'm new to the channel, I didn't even know you were trans until you brought it up
When your boyfriend doesn't care that you're trans and loves you more and more each day.
MGTOW aren't celibate, they have one night stands, and in some cases have girlfriends, it just stops before the living-together or getting married step
I'm a Becky.
Feminists vs Incels... a bloodbath.
ABIGAIL LEAVE US ALONE
*F U C K I N G C H A D S*
The one thing I'll add is this, and this is directed at incels. The one thing, and only one thing, which prevented me from fully becoming an incel, and I mean the woman-hating suicidal kind, was realizing something very simple. Some women are just bitches, and toxic femininity is a thing. We as people in society are held in this vice grip that evil is a thing men do, and any bad actions women do are because of men. This narrative that women are all inherently good with few exceptions and we as men have to literally murder ourselves to be worthy of their attention. But the fact is, just as not all men are evil beings, not all women are angels. Because just as you don't want to be lumped in with all the shitty guys, not all women are great people. You can't assign every bad experience from women to all women, but you can't also assume that women are always right and just. Some women have wronged you in your life, have had shitty attitudes, have chased the 'chads' and have had cliques, and guess what; that's toxic femininity. That is the shitty, problematic element of being a woman that most women don't do. And once you realize that, once you take women off this perfect pedestal and treat them as unique human beings, it takes the edge off. So it's not about being this perfect specimen of a man to attract any woman just to give your life validation, it's about hoping to meet whoever makes you feel good. 'Women' are not a monolith, they're not a hive mind, and some of them are just shitty people. So don't pay them any mind, and to hate the attitudes of toxic femininity DOES NOT MEAN you hate all women. It's hard to break out of the incel mindset, but you have to believe in yourself as an individual, and believe in the individuality of women as well.
"We don't open with pantie sniffing"
The incel phenomena is quite the ride. It's because of the internet allowing people with dangerous and self-destructive mindsets to find each other and, sadly, make that worse.   I'm a unique case in that I have a mindset that could almost be considered incel-like, but isn't. I've been single for 9 years, soon to be 10 years. And in that time I've had no truly remarkable interaction with women, and haven't had any kind of basic attraction beyond a fleeting fancy. I've ran the road too; went to parties, drink ups, clubs, tried online dating, tried speed dating even, yet haven't managed to even get so much as a decent conversation from it. Not saying there weren't a few nice encounters, but I've never once felt like someone genuinely wanted to be with me, and that's the harrowing feeling. Like you're intrinsically worthless. With all that, it'd lead one to think they are an incel; completely incapable of attracting a mate, despite a lack of trying.  Difference is, I don't blame women as a whole, society, feminism or whatever for my loneliness. I just think that it's unfortunate luck, something incels themselves could never admit, cause that's scarier. You want to blame something, you want to find a reason you're alone and say that's why it's so bad. But I accepted the truth that maybe, I'm just undesirable. Not cause I'm unattractive or that I'm a bad person, but just that it's the card I was dealt. Some people never get wealthy, some people have perpetually bad health, some people just aren't desirable, it just happens. Not everyone's a winner, some people just lose. Sure that's fatalistic, but when you've been single for nearly a decade, not for lack of trying, you have to come to some kind of conclusion. Be that being an incel, or being whatever mindset I have.  The thing that incels and people like me need to get over is that a man's life is not, and should not, be defined by whether or not we have a partner, or can get sex. Yes, these are important things that enrich lives, but they're wants, not needs. It's tragic, truly tragic when someone cant meet someone decent, or can't get sex, but it happens all the time, to everyone. I think we're only now acknowledging that life isn't Disney movie endings and seeing the sad truth of loneliness for what it is. But incels as a concept takes that to the extreme. In a way, if we didn't have to feel lonely, incels wouldn't even exist, just content men and women going about life until a partner shows up or not. As for me, I'm trying to stay hopeful but after nearly a decade of being single, I think I've mentally checked out and accepted that this is probably it. Oh well I guess.
First time I’ve seen your videos and I love them already. Also, you’re gorgeous.
Holy That's An Intro....
i genuinely almost thew up during the first monologue
The baking man is such a joke. I was called grandma in school because I could bake and sew and not a single human being made fun of me for it.
Is this trap?
I've grown to hate women. Thanks to them acting like shit.
Enjoyed the deep dive tremendously. I definitely plan on checking out more videos, but as someone who works in lighting, the lighting you have in these videos is gonna take some getting used to.
This and the "are traps gay?" vid were VERY helpful to me. Especially as a cis gynosexual male who studies psychology.   Also, can a man who has a bad streak with dating and lack of sex not be a INCEL?(I meant that I "suffer" what they describe, but I refuse their answers to such issues)
Have you considered INCEL ASMR where you just tap a skull with those glorious fingernails and whisper about the Chad Circumfrence  Because you should do that, I would watch the shit out of that
MGTOWs are necessarily celibate.
If only these people were actually nice to be around.  Maybe then they'd have someone that loves them.  Imagine trying to love someone that thinks you're the devil. These people have literally nothing to offer.
“the inherent eroticism of the sea” had me cackling like an idiot.
I actually had no idea you were a trans woman until you said so yourself. So, you definitely pass, fuck the TTTT.
nothing problematic at all with relating trans women to incels!!! (what where you thinking..?)
paris hilton??? *gets yeeted back to 2006*
I find your voice very sexy, just saying
I want to say, I've been on youtube for like 15 years, and this is my first ever comment, But this shit is so damn wild and interesting. I genuinely love this. Keep it up, you earned a sub.
woah your voice has changed since that debate
After this I looked for contrapoints posts on 4chan and it really pissed me off.
Lol keep ridiculing all these communities. Won't matter in the end because there ARE women who commit these immoral acts. And they are sometimes encouraged, yes.
okay, YouTube algorithm *you got me*
God, this video really got to me. Trans masc communities have the same kind of toxicity as Natalie described. I remember being told over and over that I'd never pass, I would never get to live as a man truly. These thoughts still haunt me. Every time I do anything less than 100% masculine, I second guess myself and truscum scream in my own mind. I know at a logical level that the truscum, bullying shit is dumb but my lizard brain believes it. No matter what anyone says, I can't stop. Some bad days I spend hours looking at pictures of myself and obsessing over every detail. My eyes are too big. I'm too short. My arms are too small. My lips are too big. My legs are too thick. I'm not masculine enough. I'm too girly. The people I date don't really see me as a man, they're just placating me. Everyone is lying to me. They're secret laughing at me. I'm a joke. I'm gross. People talk about me when I leave the room. They don't want me around. They only tolerate me. I should just give up. I'll never be a man. I'll never be happy. I should just die.  This video hits hard.
Wait...people still use 4chan?
Wow.  First video I've ever seen of yours. You're amazing. <3
I remember the first time I watched this I had just been reading Shadow Over Innsmouth and the ocean references were really freaking me out.
My god that ending gave me shivers.
This deserves an Academy Award.
This is absolutely perfect. I love you
What have we learned from them: Women are shit.  Man are shit.   Hpw can one live in such a word???
so it is like man version of feminism ?
Considering that I literally had NO IDEA you were trans until you brought it up as an example (this is the first video of yours I've watched), I'd say your skull is pretty damn womanly. Stay hopeful everyone!
That background music is amazing.
Seriously i have chills
Why the fuck are her nails so intimidating
jesus.
As a friend of mine once pointed out to me, "being in a relationship is just about as being single."  So true...
while watching this video i felt physical pain  after getting my wisdom teeth out yesterday smiling hurts
You are a pretty , funny and intelligent woman and you have gained  a subscriber  .I love this video.
To be fair the sea never fails to get anyone wet, just look at the passengers of Titanic
i love you so much omg we stan a queen
in my experience, personality is probably one of the only real obstacles to forming "any" kind of relationship.
Hm. Smells like Desperation, Doritos, Mountain Dew, And gym clothes that haven’t been washed for a good 4, maybe 6, Months. Disgusting
The inherent erotism of the sea gives me such deep, sensual joy and peace... Thank you so much for this video, gorgeous. 💜
SelfFulfillingprophecycel
What wait! Where have you been all my life? How have I never found you before?! You just randomly popped up in my recommended list and I’ve never before been so eager to press subscribe! I even put down my snacks to get a hand free to hit the button, and that’s a big deal because I put my snacks down for NO ONE! Awesome video, very informative and open, plus dammit girl it certainly helps a bi girl like myself to have some hot chick eye candy while I’m educating myself on real issues that are out there ravaging our world right this second. So now, I must binge watch your videos for a few hours but NOT before I go get me some snack refills. 🍟 🥤 🍰  🍫
You my dear, just earned yourself a subscriber. It is everything I love in a YouTube video, informative and entertaining.
The 80/20 rule is very real
There are racial differences beyond skull shape. Iq peking order; Ashkenazi, Oriental, Caucasian, Latin, African (I'm aware I'm mixing terms here). There are also physical differences such as;  hormone levels, musculature, lung capacity, height, Etc. There is nothing wrong with recognizing simple differences between genetic groups. There is far more variance within  individuals of a race compared to different races.
Great vid,  been researching about the self labeled group of incel and pua... and the apple doesn't fall far from the tree
plz do asmr vid?
nice break down of inceldom btw you got a lot of categories involved nice
I want this whole thing as an ASMR experience. Not that it’s not already an awesome aural experience, because I’m LOVING the sound of your voice. But that skull tapping and whispering gave me goosebumps ^_^
jordan peterson is not "kind of a sexist old man" you can't just throw false shit like that around...i liked your trap video cuz the topic is funny and your video aesthetic is top notch...and the alcohol is a chill touch, im also on the wine, but your really smearing shit all over the wall here and calling it art like a modern artist would....try digging a little deeper...instead of claiming jordan is something he isn't and pick up artists are something their not, and trump is stupid which he isn't especially when it comes to climate studies he has done his research trust me...and why don't you research the quality of life in socialist commy places....capitalism is what gave us the ability to even go trans...communists are in more slavery than us...people have resorted to eating their pets thanks to communism... yeah try having a nice trans life as a commy......ngh
the difference with pick up artists is that they don't "believe" those things about women they witness them and understand the psychology in reality much more than incels...
I lost my shit at you saying "take me, mommy" to the sea. This was my first time watching a video on this channel, and I loved it!!! Really well done.
I love the structure of this video, it's the first one of yours that I watched and I've watched it multiple times.
you would think that a community of people obsessed with having sex with women would not go so far out of their way to mock and scrutinize them... or is that just me?
Incels should just go to a monastery where even thinking about sex will NET YOU ETERNITY IN THE DEEPEST BOWELS OF HELL
oh my god it's that fat british guy's voice i cant stand that cunt
In many ways I think I would fit in very well with the incel demographic. I'm very nerdy, rather socially awkward and I've never had sex, a girlfriend or even a sense that someone was sexually attracted to me on any level, and I'm 20.  I don't really have a prob with my face now my acne has stopped but my chest is actually concave so I have a different sort of bone structure to be self conscious of!  But wearing clothes, I think I look quite good, just my personality isn't sexy at all.  That being said, I don't identify with their way of thinking, not the women hating part anyway. Someone has to lose at sexual selection, that's how it works. Even so, I'm not actually depressed, maybe because the idea of a relationship seems like an abstract concept that's just a nice idea but not a tangible thing to be obsessed with. My life is quite fulfilling in other ways, if I do die a virgin that's far from the sole criteria I will judge it's worth.
This is a really interesting video. It's true that it's tough as a young guy in the days of tinder and the internet. I had my fair share of teenage times where I worried I was unattractive to girls and would be alone forever. Now in my mid 20s, I've done alright. Turns out some very charming and beautiful women are very into twinky, nerdy guys like myself haha. I also bake bread like a champion. Oh sorry I mean I study bread science like a truly manly man.
Incels are a product of a society that despises unsuccessful men. They are the low hanging fruit. Suicidal and easy to bully.
What's incredibly sad about these mentalities is how untrue they are. I have seen pure love in just about every shape and form. Love is NOT subject to appearance at all. I'll be honest for a moment as an example to this; I have been with my fiance for 6 1/2 years now. When I first met him I had an extreme physical attraction to him. When I got to know him and found out how a like we are (practically twins mentally and in interests), the attraction turned in to pure love. Currently, 6 1/2 years later and a 4 year old daughter in our life, he has grown in to a "dad bod". I still make love to him with the same attraction in the beginning... because it quickly turned from physical attraction to mental attraction in the beginning. I love him for everything that he is and at this time it has nothing to do with his appearance at all. He can honestly gain 100 more pounds and I would still make love to him the same way. He and our daughter literally mean everything to me.
Yes, I am watching you on the toilet, but I pause when I flush cause I don't want to miss your insights.
Yeah cause your bone structure on your skull is flat where your brain should be
I feel sorry for them. They've developed a mind-crippling insecurity and respond by lashing out at easy targets.
"I'm 20 and never had a girlfriend. I should just give up now and hate women because I'll never get one" - Incel logic. *head-Desk*
Ah yes... the non existent incels.
What do they think of humans in happy healthy stable long lasting relationships?
32:24 Blithering about film directors? That's a woman after my heart.
You make a better woman than most women
The inherent eroticism of the sea 😂
Two kinds of people: you either blame your problems on things out of your control so you can stop worrying about them and say how the world is unfair, or you accept your problems and the unfairness of the world and work wtih it, around it and through it to become a better person. This divide literally explains every polarizing discussion on earth.
6:33 No, people cannot justify their beliefs through skull shapes. Phrenology hasn't been taken seriously for hundreds of years.  You mean to say that people can _attempt_ to justify their beliefs through pseudo-phrenology. They will be able to _actually_ justify their beliefs this way, unless their belief is that phrenology is a crock of shit. This might seem petty given the context of the entire video, but still - it's a noteworthy aside.
the song at the beginning at the credits, after the incel sex fantasy, is dope as fuck. reminds me of classic royksopp like she's so and  in space.
god you're such a pretty woman -another woman
Phrenology was a pseudoscience used by racists to empirically subjugate peoples from countries deemed to be inferior to the Teutonic states during late the 18th century, and popularised throughout the 19th century. We're all guilty of forming stereotypes based on physical appearance in much the same way Jack Black claimed he could spot a recidivist in a crowd of law-abiding citizens, or the way we might attribute certain erroneous personality characteristics to strangers based on their superficial similarity to an antecedent. Assimilation and accommodation are the ways in which the human brain collects and sorts information, and it's why we have to be constantly vigilant to the insidious nature of this mode of thought, as we slip into it so effortlessly.   With regard to incels directly, there's also the danger of reinforcing negative stereotypes and modes of thought by joining online cults that profess to be a sanctuary for the coitally dispossessed, when they're really just an echo chamber for social awkward man-boys who take comfort knowing that they're not alone in their swamp of insecurity. How can an incel expect to solve their perceived problems if they're constantly parroting degrading commentaries about their own physical inadequacies, while at the same time perpetuating erroneous and negative stereotypes about those outside of their depressing chamber of irrationality? In what way would it make anybody feel better being a part of a self-deprecating, distorted hive mind?
The amount of effort and thought that goes into your videos is always so impressive, good job!
💖💖💖
Great work as usual. You look awesome and that's not your best feature.
Man she really wants to fuck Poseidon
I gotta admit, as fucking hilarious as the term "Bread Scientist" is, hearing it called that *definitely* makes me wanna start baking now, and I'm not even sure why! The power of branding, I guess xD
Should I be honored if someone calls me Chadpreet?
"He was indeed a lover of war, yet restrained in action, mighty in counsel, gracious to suppliants and lenient to those who were once received into his protection. Short of stature, with a broad chest and a *LARGE HEAD*(emphasis mine); his eyes were small, his beard thin and sprinkled with grey; and he had a flat nose and tanned skin, showing evidence of his origin."  It's true, Attila WAS a Hun!
I need to use "inherent eroticism of the sea" in my daily life
I GOT A REALLY COOL CRANIUM, HEAVY METAL STYLE. LOVE LEATHER AND LATEX RUBBER I LIVE IN IT BUT I ALSO LIKE WHITE LACEWEAR I AM KINDA MASTER OF DISGUISE, I SAW YOU MANY TIMES, YOU WOULD NEVER KNOW, I AM A MASTER OF THE DISGUISE ITS VERY EROTIC TO CHANGE LIKE A CHAMELEON I ADJUST TO MY ENVIRONMENT LOOKS LIKE YOUR INTO IT YOURSELF, YOU SHOULD DO A SHOW ON REPTILLION'S ???
why do you call your channel ContrapointS YOUR VERY BEAUTIFUL.
I think I’m in love
Omg, this is such a good video.  I found you by your debate with Blaire, and I thought you had some interesting points. I'm glad I found you :)
I wouldn’t personally compare men’s rights activists who simply want more attention to be placed on men’s issues such as domestic abuse against men, disproportionately losing court cases over custody of their children, etc. to the likes of incels and mgtow
I wouldn’t personally compare men’s rights activists who simply want more attention to be placed on men’s issues such as domestic abuse against men, disproportionately losing court cases over custody of their children, etc. to the likes of incels and mgtow
4:42 tbh “the Becky” in this drawing is much more ‘sexually desirable’ then whatever deformed hybrid creature is to the right of her
THE SEAAAAA
I just found your channel and this might sound weird but like I never would have guessed you were trans.
his "hands are always prepared to grab nearby fertile pussy" .... trump is that you?
Had no idea you lived in Baltimore! I do as well! Small world!
Came here because Youtube put you in my auto play.... and you got a subscriber.  Great video, very detailed and I like the parallels you drew to other communities.
This video is my first experience with you. I'm definitely subbing. You're so well spoken and I love your humor. On an unrelated note,  you're also exceptionally beautiful and have an A+ voice.
..... is a hispanic incel a beancel i honestly want to know
"There are plenty of betas that get laid!" Imagine being told this as a beta/incel, after years (and sometimes DECADES) of trying your hardest of finding a partner, utilizing every approach possible.   For some men, it IS impossible to get laid. Saying otherwise is like telling a clinically depressed person to "try to smile more!"
lol I went on the lgbt forum on 4chan and the first thing that came up was a pic of contrapoints talking about how beautiful she was
I'm glad something good finally got recommended to me on yt. Also I wish I could be as pretty as you lmao.
The only bread science i accept is The Conquest of Bread.
Totally unexpected Baltimore/Hon reference...
OMG, yes to all of this!
holy shit that was so good  wow
Becky is actually cute tho like why they gotta hate on her
All this talk about roast beef has made me hungry.
Just stumbled upon your channel. First, i just wanted to say that i love your style and confidence. Great video, gonna show it to my flatmate. He doesn't know about incels, but he's reading red pill book right now, and i'm just worried for him, because he believes in some of the garbage there and don't want to him to fall down into that rabbit hole.
I love it how your final remark aims people at a return to nature. I would personally say this about every 3 seconds in a video like this but yeah... great video. Much appreciated! :)
This is what happens when the society is trained like lap dogs that Sex is an evolutionary prerogative above all else, instead of the part of an overall goal of magnetism between those within a sexual attraction.
"...or I'm going to become a monster, and once that happens, it's going to be very difficult to fix...  " Hmm...  Very true  "Incels" really are trapped and breaking out of, uh, ways of thinking are going to be extremely difficult.  As they say ..."The neurons that fire together, wire together"  And undoing it ain't easy.
A friend just introduced me to your channel. I'm gonna go thank him now. You're insightful and funny. New subscriber. :)
This weirdo is the biggest incel of them all, "changing" his gender...
LOL I just noticed that in the background of Roosh's shot talking about bread baking he has the same bread maker that I have. Yeah, you're so ultra masculine that you can't even knead your own bread :)
ohhh shit.. thanks!
I thought this was interesting in a sick way, and then 8 minutes had passed and my willingness to consider anything further about incels (well, except perhaps legal ramifications) had evaporated.  Thanks for the entirely sufficient intro.
I was an Incel for a while, actual pick up artistry help get of that hole, I do have a good skull tho. I think the wave of Inner game, a re-branding of self help / spiritual woo woo for that community in general. It gives you the grounding you need to take rejection as exposure therapy.
"...and the inherent eroticism of the sea..." 😂 Can I just say that I I love you? So happy to have found your channel.  PS - as a server, I am so ashamed to have ever referred to another human being as "hun".  It was my go-to moniker of affection. PPS - You're gorgeous, you know it.  I hate how many trans woman are so fucking hot and I can't achieve anywhere near their magnetism.  My jealousy is increasing every day with each new successful transition 😉
OMG!!! INCELS philosophy works perfectly with the Oppressor / Oppressed dichotomy of the progressive left.
I laughed so much with this video !!!!!
i love you
Incels are like applying model level standards to their own images. I've seen these Incels and many of them are hot clean shaven long haired cuties that are 100 percent my type physically and then they start talking and its like oh....... you're nuts  I miss the days when sad teens just wore cute studded belts and listened to emo music and wrote poems. Whatever happened to that? That got them layed anyway
You're a gorgeous goddess, and i love your work <3
Bread scientist. 😂
Sometimes I need to return this video to remind me how many of these individuals are present on the internet, spreading their misery.
The sad thing is that most of the incels honestly don’t look that bad. But their shit personalities ruin whatever looks they have.
I my opinion hypergamy has a lot to do with the sex ratio in the younger age brackets.  About 106 boys are born for every 100 girls.  Let’s assume that three boys die for every two girls.  That would put the break even point at 88 to 88. Most women are post menopausal before 12% of the female population has died.  The actual difference in mortality depends on age and time and place of birth.  I doubt if European women were able to “marry up” after ww1, especially French and German women.
I'm loving your topics and presentation of said topics but you look like a 1:1 copy of a girl I know and I'm not entirely sure this isn't a fever dream.
This shit wild!
Thos shit wild!
"and you're just gonna say that I'm a tranny and a faggot and a degenerate and to that I'm gonna say: HOW DARE YOU SAY THINGS THAT ARE TRUE". I have never done a spit take on a youtube video, that was the epitome of comedic timing. One the subject, I'm just gonna say that there was a small period where I might have gone the incel way and the only advice I would like to convey is, find friends. Sex is in no way the end fucking stage of your life. Most great moments of your life are gonna involve fully clothed people. Get involved in a completely non-sexual way and figure your way from there.   Also, for the incels who took nothing away from this video, I hope you find happiness one day
I...I think I loves you...and I am za Chad, you can trust that
6:25 then why not pick a rock... you shallow ****
Damn good video, subbed and belled. Enlighten me further with your big words and bigger wigs
When you said inherent eroticism of the sea I could only think of laying in the sand and letting the tide wash over you only to have a crab wash in to pinch your ass
I noticed a lot of other youtubers that I watch when it came time to make fun of the incel trend. They did just that, just made fun of them. You made a video that seems to want to help these poor guys.
Of the different sections of the manosphere, it is the incels that manage to occasionally inspire pity. That's because at one point of my life, without realizing it, I was there. I don't want to go into it, and there is a lot of regret and skeletons in my closet connected with it. But yeah, I was there. It sucks. It's self destructive. It's essentially untreated depression combined with a lot of bullshit ideas accepted as true.  I won't say I'm 100% all right now. I don't think I ever will be. Some part of me will always tell me that I'll never find anyone, etc. What happened (apart from finding the right medicine) is that I learned to let go. Let go of false ideas about women and sexuality...and let go of an expectation that was only making me miserable. The idea that I had to be in a relationship, that I had to have sex, that I had to be married, that I had to have kids...let go of these things, and life becomes a lot easier. I'm an atheist, but Buddhism has a strong point about attachment and desire being the root of unhappiness. And that's what lies at the core of the incel worldview.  To them, I don't offer "Chadsplaining" or "momisms"; I offer one simple idea. Let go. Let go of those desires that are only making you miserable. Start from scratch, get to a clean emotional state. Maybe, with time, they might figure out the rest.
Females: That explains why I see Quark around those circles...Rules of Acquisition are still hilarious and on rare occasions true.
Hi, could you make a video talking about the bigotry around people who think that women are worthless once they do not have their virginity anymore? I don't really know the term for it. I've been seeing those arguments around me a lot recently, mostly by men, but there are remarkably amount of women who think that as well, and feed it to other women. I love hearing the way you break things down and would love to see it about this, thank you! :)
these guys live in an oversimplified world that exists only in their sick minds
i'm sorry but the piece being played in the background Chopin's waltz in B minor, is one of my favourites to listen to and to play. But whoever is playing it in this has, ummm, questionable technique...
I used to make self depreciating jokes about being celibate by choice... but not by my choice. It was simply a joke. But I've dropped making those jokes because there are people out there so stupid they think that it's a real thing. And these people are becoming violent.
HI, I liked this video. And you are beautiful skull-wise.
When you showed the gorgeous fuckboys meme, did you choose the Chad White (gorgeous fuckboy) photo on purpose?
Okay, incels, here's a clue:  Very few of us are really good looking.  But a lot of us are acceptable looking.  ANYONE can dress well.  And ANYONE can go have a professional picture taken for our dating aps, instead of using a cell phone selfie that wouldn't flatter Adonis.
My wife has a big head. I bought her a new bike helmet for x-mas and had to get an XL. She's never been a man. I love her. (Also, you are quite pretty without the bone shaving, but do what makes you happy!)
Very well put together. Enjoyed every minute 😁😄
Your set and costumes look like they're worth more than my annual income.
mm, love me a man with some _tiny wrists_
you are SO cool!! everything about your videos is such an aesthetic. subbed in the first minute, gonna binge watch all ur vids now thx
i honestly thought u were a woman fuck
What has to happen to get you on Beep Beep Lettuce? https://twitter.com/beepbeepleaf
One time I tried to make love to the entire ocean
I couldn't tell you were trans until you said something. also you are funny as hell so i'm subscribing. great job!
“That’s not a pussy that’s a fuck hole” killed me...  you made some really good points while being incredibly entertaining. Not to mention honest and vulnerable
i just realized that ollys voice
It’s so difficult to reconcile baking with my manhood. I’m so glad that the dude in the video showed me how to do that without sounding insecure. Thanks bro.
First time viewer! Your videos are the verdant oasis this website needs, thank you
Isnt the chad also kind of an ironic meme character
Incels have a really unhealthy, negative, cynicistic view of women and dating. It is true that there are promiscuous women but there should just be as many good women.
I would normally hold my tongue. I know that my opinion holds little weight, but I disagree whole heartedly with corn dogs. It’s the stick maybe? Don’t get me wrong I love phalic food. Give me a cucumber, kielbasa or the lowly chili dog and I’m in heaven, perhaps a carrot. Yep it’s the stick.
I keep pointing people to this video, because it's the best primer on Incels that I've found.
Honestly not asking this to be insulting, but just out of curiosity: Is ContraPoints a Male-to-Female transgender? The face and the voice are just setting off my alarms 😂  Edit: Watched more of the video and got my answer
i love u girl
well great... now I won't be able to go to the beach in public anymore...
ContraPoints, that's a piece of great video! Your observations are very accurate. It was also a great experience for me to watch some trans person with such healthy approach to being trans... Of course it is important part of your life, changing gender, but you don't look like you're obsessed with that and focused only on that and on the way how you look (and I've seen some trans youtubers, very narcissistic from my point of view, while you are not narcissistic at all!). You are just making fair points based on your personal experience (which is unique), and honestly saying I'm really impressed by that.  You proved to me, that trans can be perfectly normal people, while deep in my soul I was thinking, that maybe some people are going trans because of some insecurities, and blaming their gender for e.g. lack of acceptance. It is quite big deal for me, because I get, that it must to be really hard to be born with different gender biologically than physically, and in my opinion it's also perfectly normal to have mental struggles due to this burden (most of "normal" people have mental problems without having gender identification problem or particulary big problems in their lifes, so IMO it takes a lot to go through transition and keep health self-image of yourself).
am I a purple pill because I believe a lil of both
First time to your channel. I love it. Im definitely  subscribing:)
what
Lmfaooo you can make your wrists/forearms grow
Wow, don't totally agree with incels  i find it odd how when women come across anything that doesn't  project positive reinforcement its attacked and vilified immediately.
B R E A D. S C I E N T I S T.
This is the first video of yours that I watched and I had no idea you were trans. You look great!
Holy shit this is the funniest thing I've seen in quite a while
In my opinion, regardless of how gringy things are (a lot), there are some major social issues people experience daily and can flat out break them (check hikimori's for example). Incels take some notion of the idea and turn it into full memology.  Edit: Had to pause on the dating app part, my cheeks started hurting
I don't use "cringe" lightly  but dear god those posts are max over cringe. Why do they speak so weirdly?!
I was an incel in my 20s I just was to afraid to approach women then in my 30s I got over the fear and wasn't an incel anymore in looks I would say imma 5 or a 6 if this helps
Loneliness is a hell of a thing.
These forums are basically the awkward male version of the Mirror scene in Mean Girls when they stand in front of a mirror and talk about how ugly they are.
Cool video.
Just wanted to say that this is the first video of yours I have ever watched and I wish I had known about your channel much sooner. You do some AMAZING work!
For what it is worth I am a quite straight male who when I ask myself “would it be strange to end up with someone like Natalie?” the answer is no. I have over time dated many girls not only myself but the majority find attractive so I think I have fairly good taste relative to the mass perspective. My point is I hope you can realize the people singing you praises are in your case not hug boxing you. You can get the surgery if it will boost your confidence or make you feel better, but you don’t need to.  I do feel very bad for the people who truly could never pass as the gender they are inside, fortunately you are not among them. One day society will have I hope less strong standards about gender, more fluidity, but that’s still a good ways off I think.
Can you release like the first 53 seconds of this as its own video? Asking for a friend.
wow I've always been terrified of incels for their toxic culture and women hating but I never realized what theyr'e doing to themselves as well (aside from the women hating.) I routinely suffer from absolutely crippling self doubt and I'm finally admitting now that I have been severely and harshly self-criticizing all of my life and I could understand the wish for validation of some of your core thoughts but why in the world would other people validate them. What kind of person would see somebody who they do not see as the other (they're women hating) but rather a peer and drag them down further. I've heard of hate groups but not ones that actively and explicitly (not talking about toxic culture in general) tear down their own to their face.
You ARE a beautiful goddess and I love your production style! You've got a new sub. The YouTube algorithm got something right for once!
That opening tho
_If Jordan Peterson is the father figure, then ContraPoints could be the mother figure. I'm not sure Jordan would like it._
Ur mom gay
I knew there was no way you were a biological woman because you're actually funny.
I used to be a self-loather on 4chan/lgbt/. But I was really good at posting with a big self-deprecating disclaimer smooshing myself into the dirt, and then only posting my good angles and getting 4 compliments for every 1 insult. I figured out what I was doing pretty quickly and knocked it off.   I think that honest self-awareness has saved me from some potentially pretty bad thought patterns. Mental-illnessy thought patterns.
I was close to giving up on women myself. I haven't been very successful with women throughout my youth.  I had a girlfriend, but we were awful to each other and to the end she told me she stayed because she was insecure as fuck; took her two weeks to get a new boyfriend.  In my third semester I thought: dude, you study psychology. Do something about it! So I cracked the books, spent weeks in the library and created a behavioural concept which should help me to get laid.  Well, it did. Even pick-up coaches could learn something from that. I was effective as can be and slept with woman after woman.  That lasted a half year until one night after a hook-up I realised: They don't like me, they like my method. Sex is nice but just not meaningful at all.  I went through the data again. The hypergamy stuff, the resources. It's too solid science to overlook.  After months of self-loathing and existential crisis of which this topic was a part but not the entire history, I overcame this thoughts. Although I'm mostly a Nietzsche-Fanboy, Schopenhauer helped me with that.  Even though I don't like the fact, I judge women based on physical appearance as well, but it's not the whole story. There's a minimum necessary value. Anything beyond that isn't based on looks anymore but on personality and relationship style.  I thought: Maybe it's the same with women. Some minimum necessary value we can't adjust and beyond that other traits count.  Women judge men harder than vise versa, but maybe there's something about a man that can make a woman seriously fall in love; devastatingly in love like I have been once or twice in my life.   So where does Schopenhauer come in? Maybe, we could just accept that we're human and judge people based on values not determined by ourselves. Then we can satisfy the ancient needs and try to build something meaningful on a higher basis. That would definitely be worth it, because to me there's nothing more beautiful in life than an intimate meaningful encounter.   I'm still not sure whether women can fall in love like men do. Women are more rational than men when it comes to mating-choice, so more research needs to be done. But in the end: That's what I want and I have to play by the rules our biology has given to us. And I will.
The beginning made me want to die . Like when you are walking and you pass a person that you do not know? And just the fear. That’s the same feeling I just got on a smaller scale .
Wait, this is an actual thing?
I can’t remember the last time I enjoyed a video this much
So I randomly came across this while going down youtube rabbit hole and me being a girl found myself agreeing with the points.....down to at least number 5 lol nothing after that ever crossed my mind. Also, I didn't even know this term was a thing that existed. I feel like being resigned to an extent takes pressure off. For example 40-year-old virgin just circumstances had him remain a virgin. He found other things to take up his time (I'm currently 30 and a virgin and not really seeing that change for me honestly).
*B O N E  S T R U C T U R E*
If nothing else, this video enriched my vocabulary with such delicious phrases as "hyper-masculine bread scientist" and "thank you, skull people, for showing me the way".
This is the first of your videos I've watched and, frankly, you're amazing! Great subject too. I think you balanced criticism and showing where sympathy should stop. You also have a great handle on nuance, something all parts of our society sorely need more of.
Olly is my new favorite incel :D
Omg. I just found this channel and I love this. You have just the right amount of info and sass. Just my cup of tea. 👏🏻👌🏻👍🏻
“The inherent eroticism of the sea” -definitely my favorite part of this mind blowingly brilliant video.   You are a hero in the vast hellscape that has become the internet.
I only wish you could've found an incel to interview/ correspond with to truly get a first person narrative on what it means to be incel.  Otherwise I really enjoyed this.
REEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEMOIDS
When you got to the tinder bit i fucking lost it. That's my fucking life
10/10 girlfreind
Incels is what you get when you believe porn is real life
I can't believe how detailed this is! Jesse Lee Peterson doesn't think this hard about BETA's! (bay-DUH)
I cannot describe the inhuman amount of discomfort that the reading at the beginning gave me, holy FUCK I want to avoid the internet merely to avoid the cyber presence of whoever the fuck posted that. Jesus H Christ take the wheel I CAN’T
Okay so this the first time I've actually viewed your content after hearing about you a few times in passing on a few social media sites, and like....I get it now. I didn't really get the hype but this video is fantastic and genuinely changed the way I view incels as well as my understanding of their mindset and community. In my personal experience, I've always had a natural sort of blinder for some of the nastier places on the web and life in general, so when I learned about incels I couldn't for the life of me understand how the incels mindset worked or why they were so resistant to the idea of self-improvement or help in general. But this video really opened my eyes to how terrifyingly easy it is for people to fall into the incel mindset and how their community functions. Your mention towards the end of masochistic epistemology is something I'd never really thought much about either but it really does explain so much about not just incels, but also how self-loathing and negativity gain so much traction and are so hard to overcome.
This video taught me two things. 1. Wtf is humanity. 2. I wanna be you when I grow up.
this is so funny
So did you have to make a new account on Tinder or can you change your gender? I'm... not sure how that works.
Embroidery can be so helpfull for them
I LEGIT BELIEVED CONTRAPOINTS WAS A WOMAN AT BIRTH UNTIL THIS WAS BROUGHT UP. NOT MTF BUT YOURE SLAYING I LOVE YOU, LIVE YOUR BEST LIFE AND ENCOURAGE OTHERS TO DO AS WELL EVEN INCELS! MY WIG HAS BEEN SNATCHED!
WTF is an incel??  I've never been good-looking guy, never wealthy.  I'm 5 foot eight and have an Irish retractable dick, for Christ's sake!  I've had no trouble getting laid.  I think  they just form some sort of adversarial attitude toward women.  It's a mental condition.
Wow, you are my new crush istg💗
this video rules
I've read a similar analysis of PUA at least six years ago. For anyone actually interested, please google scholar 'PUA', 'Pick up artist' or 'dating guru'. There are about a hundred suprisingly sophisticated analysis of this subculture. My apologies for being as disagreable as the academic literature and not swallowing the 'genius of my contemporaries'. Contrapoints, I'm out: Dismissiveness is intellectual dishonesty and you should know better.
Whilst the incel community is deeply problematic, Contrapoints analysis does not escape the same criticism of oversimplification and discregard of opposing points of view. I'd really like a transgender source of information that doesn't play these same games of gender politics, but I hoped too much. 'Catasthrophising', indeed.
I’m so glad I found your channel! ❤️ You’re brilliant, beautiful and your bone structure is perfect. :) I’m learning a lot. Thank you for your excellent video essays and the hard work you put into them. You’re better than all of my professors combined.
Awesome video, +1 subscriber <3
Holyshit while watching this I never knew that Blackcel was a thing even tho I dab into the incel thing..... Good thing I grew the fuck up and became social a year after my 1st ex
Things I want to talk about: 1. The Chad circumfrance. 2. The mouth feel.
I think I want to be a bread scientist when I grow up.
... ... ...I am going to be something the internet hates for a minute... just for one though... I am only allowed it one time... I am going to level with you and be genuine...   I choose to be celibate as a matter of having low self esteem. I don't try to date not because I think women or men wouldn't want me... but because I can't understand what it is that they could possibly stand. I don't harbor resentment towards anyone, nor do I think someone owes me anything. I rather feel I owe people something I can't ever really give them... but a part of me wishes that I could... and so I quietly pine... I admire beauty through Pinterest, through photos, and if I come across it in public. I am relatively well adjusted in social situations because I have resigned myself to not... trying... so I am a nearly 30 year old virgin who lives with his disabled mother and I am content in my little slice of misery... and I have been called INCEL before and I fucking hated it... I revolted against the idea because above everything else I don't resent anyone. I don't think women are evil... I don't think men are evil... I don't think anyone but the insane people who go out murder people because they have some fucked up views on bone structure are pretty f***ing evil... but outside of that I just simply don't fucking like myself and I wouldn't want to inflict myself on anyone for an extended period of time. I don't want to lay down and rot, exactly but I also really am complacent in resigning myself to never being with someone (Sex never really interested me, personally, but the act of being in a relationship with someone is a prospect I sometimes think might make me happier).   And then I watched this video and all the self loathing reached a fucking fever pitch around 27:36 ... ... ... and... now i just feel bad... really fucking bad... because I can't deny how close I am to being an INCEL... I will never hate women though... I can't... it's not in me to put this on anyone but myself... By the way, with that understand I want to say... as an admirer of beauty for its own sake and without the desire of ownership... Contrapoints is a beautiful woman. I thought it when I first saw this video (which I should note is my first video, though before I finished it I hoped over and watched the video on Jordan Peterson before I finished this one)... though I did peg you for being transgender, but beauty does not possess an agenda... the Incels may disagree... but it is by scrutiny found in all forms... just you might want to get into the pants of the lady ocean, I can say it is with my own eyes that I saw first a beautiful woman and then I concluded that that beautiful woman just so happened to be Transgender. You have beautiful bone structure... :) though at the end of the day that opinion only matters so much as if you believe it yourself... trust me... even when I am complimented I oft remark that I lack the reason to accept it as true. :)   Now I feel bad... I think I am going to go away now.
i love your satirical yet informative take on the Incel community. Great Video!
Living for the ASMR Chad Circumference
love your outfit in this. first video i've watched by you, but it's really good! you've obviously put in a lot of work.
are you trans?
so smart, beautiful, and well spoken! and that’s the truth haha. subbing after this ❤️
Jesus christ give your voice actor extra pay. He does an awesome job XD
I would totally swipe right on Natalie. Dick or no dick.
I think you're a wonderful, beautiful smart woman and I feel absolutely lucky that I found your channel! thanks!
Oh god, I think I was temp banned from /r/transpassing for saying hun, but I had no idea there was such a stigma around it I was just genuinely saying hun as a term of address because most terms friendly endearment I use are gendered like dude or man and I was looking for something that was more feminine because I didn't want to make them any more insecure because they don't deserve to be. Now I feel bad.
Hey, hey, you're pretty great. I'd swipe right.
smh an incel would have a 10 centimeter wide wrist  and be like "omg my wrist is so small (intense crying)"
*F e M o I d S*
I wish I had heard this 12 years ago.
ContraPoints seems to be becoming more fuckable over time... maybe lighting and makeup? Meh.
Incel arguments about physiology literally make no sense to me. Im a 5'3", Chubby, African american, trans-guy with an oddly shaped body. No huge muscles. No square jaw. No penis at all, much less a big one. DEEP in the incel category, by their own definitions. But if you only counted how many gorgeous straight women ive been with, any incel would automatically assume Im this mythical chad. If a cis man is able to get well into adulthood without any sexual encounters, despite many sincere attempts, then there can be no other reason than that there are inherently off-putting qualities about their personalities. Looking at their associated content, its not hard to guess what some of those qualities are. But they are the ones that need to understand that.
Skulls for the skull throne!
Brilliant. Bravo!
Who the hell is talking about paris hilton any more?  Lmao!
Have to sub you!  I never guessed you were trans.  You are gorgeous!🤗
👌👌👌👌👌❤
this is the first video i've seen from you, it's really good!
Why did I picture myself fucking the ocean? Thanks Contrapoints.
Awww I thought that was Olly! (yeah yeah I'm late to the party)
"By definition Incels have never observed any vaginas." Jared Taylor and Jordan Peterson are providing free counseling for these idiots.
Incels are deprived because women aren't stupid. That's good for the human race.
This was Brilliant.  you earned yourself a sub and a like
You look so pretty:)
Take me mommy!
Two things people need to stop doing.  People need to stop telling incels to settle. Being single is better than settling for a woman who won't make us happy.  Also, stop giving us false hope. Let me explain with a question. I'm 5'1 and 188lb. Do you really think I can land a woman whom I'm attracted to, or are you just saying that so I won't complain?
I started knitting and was talking it about it online like "WELL ACTUALLY SAILORS AND FISHERMEN MADE THEIR OWN NETS SO" because I thought that was really funny, I still wasn't prepared for the bread scientist daaaamn
dafaq?? how did you do that ?? i wanna fuck the ocean now
You Sound Pretty rational.
Incels aren't "red-pill." They're black-pill.
i am amazed by the quality of what you do in every way. oh and you're hot \o/
I know this is an old video but is it just me or at 34:05 contra sounds exactly like an Oblivion voice actor
I really want to give incels all a hug. It's the only way to kill hate. With love. I know they hate me because I am a "beautiful" woman. I know they don't want to listen. They don't want to even think that there is a yang out there to their yang. But I just want to give them a hug and make them smile. Those thoughts are not worth killing yourself over.
КТО ПЕРЕВОДИТ ЭТИ ВИДЕО
GeoRGe PeTERsOn Is SeXiST
I'm not a Incel, not even a Chad, or a Hun, but I love it!
Hello, I'm Ana from Brazil, I'm studying filmmaking and you're a such an inspiration for me. Your videos are so intelligent, and, most importantly: funny. I think you're  sort of a genius and you're fucking beautiful.
HEYYY A FEMINIST CHANNEL THAT DOESN'T MAKE FEMINISM LOOK BAD
The inherent eroticism of the sea. That was fucking hilarious
I agree with you, however I have way more sympathy for these guys, of course the misogyny cannot be excused however we must understand that hate is a very slippery slope and for less attractive guys who get constantly rejected it's almost like constant confirmation of their belief, hell even I came close to being a misogynist and on more than one occasion, for me what saved me was I understand where this comes from as I understand politics and culture. Most weirdly of all what cemented me not becoming misogynistic is understanding and viewing (literally) that men are just as bad, if not worse than women. To explain where my hatred came from, it was from me not being very attractive, being shy, being rejected, one time while on holiday seeing an old rich guy with super hot girls with him, also once I spent lots of money on flowers for a girl I thought was beautiful and intelligent who rejected me cuz I was "too nice" and then ended up going out with the thuggiest guy you can picture, also my own sisters rejecting perfectly nice men and instead getting pregnant with guys, whom I told them would leave them and they did leave them and yet they carried on dating similar guys afterwards. Hopefully from all of this you can understand where the anger can come from, however like I said men are no better, I've seen guys go to sleep with old women, cheating on beautiful wives just because they could, pretending to like some girls just to get their attention and then when those chicks tried asking them out freaking out and acting like they just put them in a really bad place and laughing about it with friends after, or sometimes for a prank and a lot worse but I don't think I need to drive the point home anymore. But the issue with this is not individual as some would try to explain away, saying "oh those guys are just a holes, and those chicks are sluts", yeah that may be the case for the worst of them but it doesn't explain why most people in society are like that, it's very rare to see a "good" looking woman with an intelligent "ugly" man, it's very rare to see a "good" looking man with an "ugly" smart lady. The problem some others would say is biology, and while certainly there is a case for this, I do not believe it effects these scales as much as most people believe, as you said yourself, its surprising how attractiveness change based on conversations, charisma and the sort. And I've gotten laid alot and I'm not that attractive or rich at all. No I believe its capitalism, as it always has been, but more so now, think about it, the most popular music right now (for about 20years) is degrading to women, from rappers bragging, to women having to show their body on all their videos (f what they sound like, regardless of how good their voice is), and media also portrays what is sexy, not that they are forcing us to believe that the image is what is sexy, but they are subliminally telling us since we were born your value is based on your looks, the looks of your partner and wealth. The simple way I put this now is "most women right now are sluts, and most guys are mutts but that is only because that is the vast majority of what is being portrayed as cool so people naturally follow it".  Sure (gladly) now there is some real push back not the pretentious "I want to be different" from the 2000's we had and there is real change occurring in societal values, but what is kind off tragically funny is these guys are now too far gone with their hating women shtick to ever consider like you said yourself actually leaving these groups and just socializing with normal women, so much so that they themselves are rejecting these moves as "feminism gone crazy", I don't get how they don't see a powerful woman like Rey in star wars who doesn't have to show her body to be significant and likes Finn a coward who is clearly weaker isn't actually going to help them in the long run, instead they see it as a negative because their too far into that world of misogyny. Anyways that's my insignificant take on it, it is very sad that it happens, also one of the ways I think we as a society can reduce this is by preparing kids for rejection, I mean we tell our children from birth that their great, their special and noone even hints that "yeah, sometimes your just gonna be someones friend and their not gonna worship you like we do", because if you think about it, alot of these movements from the right mostly come out of hate for being rejected
Just subscribed, awesome content, really made me think. Keep doing it! Hope to see more. Also you are gorgeous! (not being 'politically correct' either)
The best way is to take female hormones and spread your cheeks.
I had never noticed the skull through-theme with all these groups.  Thanks for the insight.
Thank you for your excellent acting, Natalie. It really adds some class to your monologue.
My god I love your attitude about being trans. I catch a ton of shit for thinking just like this!
Your voice does kinda sound like Mickey Mouse and Winny the Poe.  I didn’t notice until you pointed it out.
so wait if women can do men things and are (in most cases not) called tomboys but men do women things (and in most cases) they are called incels makes sense for the double standard there i personaly dont give a shit what you do so long as you are not in my way do what ever the fuck you want
That first guy managed to make sex sound boring
You are indeed a beautiful goddess :)
On tablet cant respond..in full....me...straight female 100% mgtow/incels FRIGHTENING... yr advice 100%...guys take her advice...tablet keyboard im annoyed by WO NDERFUL WOMEN out there listen to advice....
In the future, sexbots may solve the incel problem.
COOL IM NOW SEXUALLY ATTRACTED TO NATURAL PHENOMENON
So if my basement is full of skulls, is that the same kind of Skull Obsession as Incels? Am I the problem I see in the world? No, I can't be...
I don't need to be aroused by bodies of water. I'm already aroused by that lighting
I knew "transcel" was a missing niche. They could've gotten me too.
You're a very very smart person. Thanks for making all these videos
I've watched this 3 times and Everytime I forget about the Reddit post at the start it's horrific
Whats a hispanic Chad?
Contra, you ARE a gorgeous goddess.
Honestly how do you expect women to sleep with you if you call the sluts? I have never gotten that. I love being gay honestly. Lool when the bread scientist called himself ultra masculine😂😂😂😂😂😂😂😭😭😭 it wasn't a joke.
nice mother nature´s fetish  PD: nice vid also
That pick up artist realizes that bakers have been traditionally male for centuries right? What the actual crap is he talking about?
L I T H O - H Y D R O S E X U A L I T Y seems to be frequent in this video, which I find hilarious
You're gorgeous. And you have a beautiful voice. And thanks to you, I was able to understand the incel group without having to go to their awful 4chans.
Great read, Ollie.
so incels ideal woman is black but they're idea type for themselves is still white lol ok.........
I didn't know about incels, pretty insane. One of my favorite videos so far! This may be the best YouTube channel ever.
I love this channel. You’re amazing Natalie.
i know this is not the point of the video, but I'm pretty sure I'm a woman with a big head, it's called eating disorders.
😍😘🤗
First video. Instantly subbed!  (also for the trans folks in the comments, go lurk in r/transadorable or r/transpositive they're awesome subs, v nice crowd)
I'm sorry, but, you're wrong. You don't 'need' to file down your fucking face because you're already beautiful and you should learn to deal with that. Sincerely, a new fan. <3
You're not proud of being a man? There's nothing wrong with men, but there is something rotten about your attitude. Don't tell me, you hated yourself so much, you decided not to be one?  p.s. Your bone structure is not pleasing aesthetically. Probs because you resemble a scrawny man with make up on.
Its way easier to believe bad things than good things.
She makes a point later in the video that incels on TTTT board roasted her that she would never pass as a woman. This is first Contrapoints video that i'm watching and had no idea that she was a he.
Far out.
All right, all right, you had me at cats and the inherent eroticism of the sea. I'd like to donate my skull to any trans person-who-wants-to-look-more-or-less-masculine (I think I could pull off a feminine face with a few small modifications) who can afford to have it replace theirs as they grow old, if I die or I am in a coma for more than a month (if there is nobody like that who wants my skull, you can also feel free to have it and use it in an art project or a ritual of some sort). As far as the incel problem, we'll also make sure to get plenty of sex robots to incels soon so they don't feel like they're missing out on any sorts of valuable relationships in their lives due to their own lack of social skills or other reasons. Soon all incels will realize that they are simply voluntarily celibate because they, as 4s, are not settling for other 4s, and have been rating the merits of the femoids compared to the boyoids according to an inappropriate metric. They could have been getting laid if they'd wanted to, but they had too high of standards due to their abnormally high intellects, etc.. Anyways, once being celibate is a voluntary and cool thing, it will be an empowering idea for men, some sort of MGTOW drivel, and they won't be as obsessive about sex as before, because they will be developing cooler hobbies or whatever. They will have finally found the solution to the evils of Feminism: Male empowerment. They have to prove that they are better than whatever their ideas of worse things are, thus enabling them to do what normal self-obsessive egotists do in our society, pursue a particular career knowledge so they can make a lot of money and think they're better than poor people.
I thought you were just a woman with a rare kind of voice, and I've heard women like that, I actually didn't know you were a transwoman
This is the first of your vids I've watched... and now I have weird questions about my love of storms. Well done.
philosophy tube's sweet succulent voice
I was watching this when I was high, and it was a roller coaster. Well done.
Roast beef ! I love eating it .........
‘has never heard a song in his entire life’ I.... don’t understand.
Had no idea you were trans until you said so
God, Roosh is such a fucking joke...
A first viewer, here. And may I say... this is brilliant.
https://pics.me.me/bbc-stan-cauvain-bread-scientist-1032701.png
anyone else notice the anxious butthole in the credits?
i must say i'm straight cis-gendered man, but as a trans woman, you look absolutely gorgeous, i'm not saying that to make you feel better even though it might, but i'm saying that in complete honesty.
,i'm a celibate 20 year old overweight guy who plays videogames a lot... but incels are stupid, i used to be one, but i've been watching daddy peterson quite a lot lately. it made me realise how much work i had to put in myself to get where i want to be. i don't think he's a sexist old man though. his teachings have taught me that women and men have slightly different ways to look at the world, and it might be harder for him to elaborate the women part of that, since he's a man.   anyway, i might be a little late on that, but now i'm doing my best to take responsibility and become the man that women would want to see in me, that's the only way i'm gonna get laid and i do believe i'm on the right track.  oh btw, i cleaned my damn room today :D . i cleaned it so good you would cum in your panties.
I would care more if it was made by an ACTUAL WOMAN.
She looks like Winona Ryder!!! <33
I am defiantly a bread scientist.
Holy fuck how am I now just finding you. God damn this video and channel is the best birthday present ever. Rock on ContraPoints!!!!!!
Off topic but I want more skull asmr
This is weird for me because I've only seen your newer videos and until you said this, I thought you were a cis woman. Also you song exactly like my sister so it's weird to think people are shitting on you about how your face looks (????)  Also the whole hun thing if fucking bizarre.
Reasons why I'm an incel: 1. The women I go for are out of my league. If I had more reasonable standards than I could feasibly get a girl. 2. I don't try to improve myself in any way and thus stay undesirable. 3. Physically short, chubby, and moderately unattractive.  4. Not charming and socially awkward. All that being said, I realize that I am the reason for my sexual failure and not the women that I don't get in which I feel I differ from most incels.
Always nice to hear someone analyze the complexities of something when they are actually intelligent and well spoken like yourself. I came across this video when the YouTube channel "Vox" recommended it to their paid subscribers (similar to Patreon). I definitely wasn't disappointed and will definitely be watching more of your content. Keep up the good work; I'm rootin' for ya :)
Wow, when watching this at times I was alternatively laughing and tearing up. You are very intelligent and you did a very amazing job at deconstructing this movement and mindset. I've literally never seen anyone do as good at a job at it as you.   I had never known what the term incel meant before today. I am someone who has some incel characteristics for sure. But I don't actively hate women, I've never been on red pill forums or anything like that and never will, I don't exist in any groups or subcultures that hate women. But from my experience, there is something somewhat traumatizing about getting repeated rejection at your most vulnerable moments. Going years without dating. Feeling invalidated, isolated, emasculated, etc. There's a resentment that has grown in me unconsciously. And a failure complex or something. I've begun to realize that there are times I could have had great dating and sex experiences but I cut it off. It was completely me. Nobody else's fault. It's not rational, but for myself and others it is real, and if we aren't at least validated we're not going to get better. For example, people who go through abuse or grow up in poverty may have maladaptive traits that have no basis in their current situation, yet in their mind thinks they need to take certain actions to survive. It's not rational but again I think healing needs to come through validation, acceptance of themselves, actually facing where they're at, and then from there a path out can illuminate itself. For example, I think yelling at someone or outing someone for being tight and weird with money because they didn't have any growing up, isn't going to help them at all. Rather, seeing them where they're at, telling them it's okay to be alive and that this can get better and supporting them, I think that can help them. Same goes for people who are incel prone, as long as the incel guys aren't misogynistic and stuff. They can realize it's okay to be themselves and from there they can grow. People with evil energy who blame others for their problems are not deserving of support though.  I compose music and sometimes when talking to girls they project the idea of sexy rock star onto me and are drawn to me. And then when they start talking to me more they realize I'm neurotic, not very social, in my own head, have a hard time relating, highly anxious, etc. I think what can be frustrating to me is that my dissatisfied experiences with women have nothing to do with my looks, and I can't really blame the women either. They want to see someone lively and confident, and I'm neurotic and closed off and could talk for hours about music production but not normal people things. I think most incels are this way but are unable to admit it to themselves. Imagine being a semi autistic male. Try to actually imagine what that's like. You could be a genius coder. You can see the architecture of software in your mind. The vastness of it all. Try to imagine what interacting with girls (or just people in general) is like when you're that way. I don't ask to sympathize with misogynistic guys because that's not at all cool. But imagine what it feels like to be a person like that.   I think the last point in this story I present, is how I and others need to grow and leave that incel mindset. There was a list in the middle of the video that had such basic things (can't find it when scanning through), yet they're so true. Just go outside. Maybe join a rec sports team. Do some hygiene stuff. I think incels and beta type males need to be reminded of stuff like this. I do. We often just feel invalidated and attacked. In our irrational mindsets we don't really know why we don't mesh with society like we wish we could, and sometimes we need reminders. Maybe I should hit the gym more. Social skills, while people are better and worse at them by nature, are a learned skill. What are ways I can put myself in a position in the world so that I am socializing more? What are skills and hobbies I can develop?  What are good ways for me to make friends? Not friends that just lead me to having sex with women. But general friends. Platonic friendships with women. Friends with other guys. There is a girl and guy at work I sort of talk to. Maybe I get a disk golf kit and invite them to disk golf with me on saturday. That's scary, but it's a first step. How can I build a support system and network of people I trust? How can I feel less isolated in such a dark world? If there was a forum for people growing out of their incel-ness, I would join that. I guess I already am in some now that I think about it. Subreddits like GetMotivated, socialskills, etc. Any incel people out there, only by loving yourself, accepting your situation, watching videos like this to help you deconstruct your irrational very burnt in pathways, can you grow past this and feel like you belong in society in a healthy way.
new favorite YouTuber
I assume this is the incel video and youtube is just being realty weird and have decided to translate the title and description to Swedish?
"Thank you skull people, for showing me the way..." - I may need to get a t-shirt with this to start conversations.
This video is like, really interesting. You earned yourself a new subscriber
a carnival in rio solves this problem
I love you to death for this vid :'D
Kudos for the Chopin music in the background. What is the recording? Does anyone know?
You are right, you ARE a gorgeous goddess
Thanks now I can't swim in the ocean without a boner.
So that was a bat shit crazy journey you just took me on. I've heard the term Incels before but had no clue what it was, thanks for breaking it down.
I could gave easily fallen into this trap. I was a virgin until embarrassingly recently. I think I was just too cognizant of my own issues to blame my failure to find a woman willing to tolerate me on women generally.   I was with a woman for the first time at 30, I had no friends, never left the house, then one day I made a friend, and caught feelings for her as soon as things got sexual  because I'm a cliche.  We've been living together for 8 months, but she doesn't have the same feelings that I have for her. Which is fine. She's helped me a lot in that time to improve myself. I'm 31 and have since had one other sexual partner. Just casual sex, there's only one person I'm interested in a relationship with and she says she needs time.
I shall become a Bread Scientist! The most Alpha scientistitian ever!
do those depressive evil fucks know that asexuals exist?  oh my god-
This was inspiring, thank you.
I'm thirty seconds in. How did I get here?
I'm really tempted to go on that tttt forum and spread some positivity
I can barely watch this, I am so disgusted by this behavior. My stomach literally aches and I feel like I'm seeing stars witnessing this injustice. Lord have mercy. Someday they will get repaid for this kind of evil.
Incels are sad stupid individuals who believe that the world and everybody else is wrong while they are right. Victim complex and delusional.
I’m a little miffed I wasn’t listed in the credits. I seems like I was the only one not included. I’m never going to be included. I’m always going to be alone. There is no redemption. I may as well lie down and rot.
Femoid sounds like "android," like some kind of advanced sex doll. Creepy as hell.
You are hilarious.
As an early transitioning woman, thank you for this video
This video is absolutely fantastic and I love you but rock and roll will never die. Still, I really respect you and am super thankful you took the time (and pain) to make this! Rock on!  PS. Your makeup is really gorgerous and your Atmospheric setup is sublime
I know this might be weird but i love ur voice.
This is really well researched and executed.
Everything about this content is Perfect but I really want to compliment you on the visuals this video is visually Gorgeous
God damn. It is honestly some of the best content I've ever seen. Seriously
For the record. As a cis straight man I actually think you've transitioned very well and very gorgeous. I feel awkward saying that. I only bring it up since you raised it as a concern. Thought I'd give my honest impression for what it's worth.  Also I love this video. Very interesting, well delivered and very informative. I'll be sure to check out more of your stuff
this is really amusing and sad
I was with you up until you brought up tinder. It's pretty fucked up to think being ignored is worse then being treated as a fucking object. Plus on Tinder,  many women DO deal with rejection and radio silence along with the creeps. Your unique perspective obviously doesn't make you an authority on the matter and your blatant false equivalency right after about bone structure is definitely showing a very unhealthy perspective. I hope you truly reflect on this shit and elevate your unique perspective to not be so damn biased.
If it wasn't for sexual desire, men could easily set up male-only empires, which would flourish and produce unimaginable wealth and progress to the inhabitants. Women would be begging to be let in. The achilles heel of men is their desire for women.
Incels should be glad they don't have to deal with women. Women just take your money and create needless drama. Men are better off without women, generally. Sorry for being sexist ladies, but I speak from experience.
Good and imformative video! And you look beutiful <3 im very pre everything trans girl btw
You look great! I'd hit, but I have a girlfriend, and I'm probably too young. Love your hair
Sure many incels are very too pessimistic, but we must see the mixed signals in society.Women are encouraged to take more place in the status of social society ( money, accomplishments, sexual freedom and so on) but it’s almost confirmed that women are attracted to a man who is more successful, tal, muscular or in any  sense more dominant. So to conclude, men are today less confident and are not encouraged like women to seek personal fulfillment, but not only that women are now seeing men as a enemy so they compete in the workplace and at the same time repeating the mantra that men should help empower women to claim and dominate in power.  I have never called myself an incel, but i sympathize with them because I also fit to the sexless men category and my relationship with women outside of my family can at best be described as stale and   unfulfilling. Even thou I am a social, friendly guy women see me rather as a looser and a weirdo. I might be nerdy but I have almost always been welcomed by most of the guys even thou I am just 170cm tal and I have a very strong body but not buff. So yeah, I might be sexless for the rest of my life at least I am honest and have a backbone compared to the dickless men feminists that makes nonsensical arguments about attitude problems and don’t see how this is a global trend and will no stop unless we address it. But still I tell the sexually frustrated men, don’t behave like thugs or bullies against women it’s is not their individual fault that they don’t find you attractive just f#ck it. Go on with your life and don’t make it circulate around women and their approval, be independent and make something constructive with your life.  P.s. Mao
I may have made a reddit to try to help these peeps because  I'm sick of this vicious cycle they put themselves in being strewn across my internet feed
You know what they say about assuming; when you assume literally everything about women and men and the relationships between them you become a sad, self loathing, women hating and therefor unattractive incel
So, I've been binging on Lindsay Ellis for the past two evenings when I learned about this channel in the comments. It would seem I've been led to yet another intelligent and snarky beauty. Liked and subscribed.
Citation needed for a lot of these points, but I'd watch another one. Here's your like.
First time here...honestly, that was a lot of fun to watch. I lost it at the fuckhole bit.
K. I love you!
I love you omg this channel is great <3
Best video on incels ever! Subscribed with extreme prejudice!
First time seeing one of your videos and I totally didn't piece it together that you were trans until you said it. Ya look great and people who are calling you hon are bananas. Also this was a perfect explanation of incels. Hope you keep up the videos!
*Sees a puddle left after a rainstorm* .....I'd smash.
So you admit that modern society is an incel to tranner pipeline???   Also, FUCK A B I G A I L, that frumpy terf is a cishon that will never have any kids she actually cares for or about.
honestly i think they want to fuck the chad ngl
*punches subscribe button for 'bread scientist'*
Great video!
lemme just smash the motherfucking subscribe button
is that a man
The ending is just golden advice for every living human being out there! Thanks!
I didn't even know you were trans  I thought you were defab  Love you!😊
Sorry but..... are you brazillian? You sound like one so im confused :v
"that kind of hatred just needs a Spark to turn into violence" Indeed.
Is that mark Turpin talking about chads
I am so thankful for this video. I find it calming and helpful.   I have been involuntarily celebate for almost two years now. I suffer from mental illness. I've never been to any of these websites. I always warn my friends to stay away from the dangerous incel disinformation.
They applied pareto law to their incelhood.  😂😂 Tyrone.
is this GOMD level shit yet SERIOUSLY I HATE ME TOO SO DOES MY STUPID AORTA
Pretty sure the mentality that leads to incels and MGTOWs is a type of social retardation that hasn't really been classified yet but has to do with a combination of unfulfilled sex and social drives.
"ricecel" "currycel"  LMFAO
Wow, just wow. I'm so glad I found this channel, you literally blew my mind away and very few things if any can do that nowadays.This is just too good. Very insightful, very intelligent, compassionate and also funny. Thank you.
Oh god, I say hun all the time, I'm not being mean, I'm just a southern woman omg
You're a genius! Subscribed, and wish I had long ago.
do you believe in love at first sight?      cause now i do <3  *subbed*
stand?  like from jojo?  maybe i'm better off not knowing these new terms.  i hope i don't get a thing for oceans, or water in general.
17:50 CATS. *My cat meows* Easy there boy...
Respect all femoids xD
I was reposted on tinder cause i didn’t answer right away one guy... like man I’m not on 24/7.. small dick energy.
*watches jordan peterson after this*
I live in Baltimore, too! Can we be friends? :) Great video, obv. Enjoy the day!
1)  Masochistic epistemology is an amazing term and I fully intend to steal it and use it forever.  2)  I opted to check out an incel-selfie forum for the first time.  I'm glad I did, it was actually kind of enlightening.  And yeah, they're mostly a pretty standard distribution of human looks.  By definition, most were of fairly normal attractiveness (if a bit more likely to need a shower).  A LOT of them are actually cute.  Like sometimes even VERY cute.  Like 100% would bang.  Assuming that they weren't totally delusional and toxic.  Not that this should be overly shocking.  Elliot Rodger was totally cute...aside from being a murderous psychopath.
Today I want to talk about IQ. Don't worry, I'll be brief.  IQ is _fucking useless_. It says nothing except, maybe, _maybe_, giving you an idea of the value of one factor going into your ability to do things.  Case study: Me. About 159 IQ according to two separate, reliable tests, and instead of being Einstein or Bill Gates, I'm some random nobody on the internet, ranting about how slighted I feel that I have a high IQ but I haven't just been ~granted~ wealth, success, and power. If IQ meant anything, I would be smart enough to get over it.
this is your first video i watched and loved it! A guy online recently told me he wanted me to shit on him and sent me a dick pic, i directed him to a fetish website and he promptly thanked me for leading him on... another thanked me for being a "good" feminist, not one of those man hating ones. oh the humanity!
First time hearing about you. I appreciate your honesty. I too used to seek out the harshest criticism because I believed from that I would grow from it. There is some truth to that but if I'm being honest it is difficult for me to accept a positive remark because I have a difficult time viewing it as sincere. I've enjoyed your deconstructions that I have viewed so far. Thank you for your content.
My sister was an incel the whole time before she transitioned.  Then she met a gorgeous girl.  She went through many of the same things as the incels I've seen online.
What about mgtow? I mean sure there are some toxic people labeling themselves by it but so does every other category or group of people identifing solely with a thing. I still think however that going mgtow is valid.
You look pretty tbh 😊
Sometimes when I feel extra lonely and unwanted like Ill never have a real bond to another person or my own children and feel certanty and powerlessness about the situation I watch this video and know at least that Im not fuckin stupid like these guys ...
You crazy ass woman man whatever. This video is both entertaining, and educational. But your most valid point on incels is the one that they probably won't listen to you. Or well rather they won't listen to anyone... I don't know, it sad to see where they are emotionally.   I honestly had no idea what an incel is until my friend mentioned it to me... It seemed wierd to me to classify oneself as a person who is in involuntary celibate... like... what the hell... (Why am i writing this comment ?)  Anyway, great video btw.  Really enjoying your witticisms.
WTF U GAY
sciolist extraordinaire, here he is: contrapoints
32:42 hi Stacy, I'm *TRACER*
Well, I learned a lot today.
I'm not part of your core audience. I'm not a fan of your content. I see it as anti-white and degenerate.  This is however one of the most helpful and wholesome videos I've seen for a long time. Incels need help and rehabilitation.
T H A N K　 S K U L L　 P E O P L E
the skull is not fixed though
here's the story of a chad image you showed: some loser posted an image of the "virgin walk" on /r9k/ or /b/ (can't remember), asking for advice on his inconfident walk. some people gave him advice, and then someone replied with this image, mockingly exaggerating a robot's idea of a chad.  it's okay that you don't know this tho, because even 4chan misuses this format
@ 20:50 Haha reminded me of Team America: World Police "There are three types of people. Dicks, Pussies and Assholes"
,,When I was your age, every teenage boy had a Stratocaster in his bedroom, that was an outlet for a sexual frustration."  Hey, screw you! I am a teenage boy and I HAVE  a Stratocaster in my bedroom, and i have no welled up sexual frustrations, nor suicidal thoughts and tendencies! NONE WHATSOEVER! How DARE you suggest something that is...Actually completely accurate. Wow. Okay, i might be in need of a therapist...
I found this video hilarious, good job. I was already aware of what Incel was, and find it ridiculous, but I found this video interesting and funny nonetheless.
Sexual repression is one hell of a drug
I won today's discourse!
Mmmm. Subscribed.
This is the second time I've seen your name mentioned in as many days. Last night on non seq and tonight on Mr. Atheist, and now you show up via the algorithm, had to check you out. What a video to be the first of yours I watch. Amazing work, looking forward to the rest of your content.
wasn't following this video until she mentioned the sea being erotic. Liked, subscribed, take my patreon money.
God this is so stupid. Not you, but the incel community.
I dunno about your voice, I'm a little hard of hearing (read: basically going deaf omg I'm gonna die) so I kinda have to crank up the volume on your videos, but I am SO into this alarmingly sparkly aesthetic you've switched to. Keep being fab, darlin'!
anyone know what the track playing at 32:02 is?  I'm pretty certain it's a Zoe Blade track but what is title?
Did you just assume dear viewers' gender? 24:52 lol
urggggg, i had a strat in my hands when that line was spoke lolol interesting work as always
what i was expecting was to learn something valuable, which i did. what i was not expecting was to end up horny for a rainstorm :/
this is the most well researched incel video i’ve ever seen oh my god
But how do I go about getting a gf tho, no one taught me how and whenever I try anything with a girl it all goes to shit. I guess I will have to settle for passionless meaningless one night stands for the rest of my young adult life.
Also also you are a beautiful stunning woman and your voice is very nice
Also your videos are so aesthetically pleasing both by video and audio, my god
This c r i n g y text at the beginning combined with an actually hot voice was such a badtrip
29:37 "My... *mind* is... ruined, now."  This was a chillingly well-read line. Oof.
22:22   T H E   C H A D   C I R C U M F E R E N C E
Holy shit the starting scene is hard to watch
ContraPoints made me realize I was hydrosexual
Great stuff. Also as a side note, there is nothing wrong with masturbation as a sexual outlet.
idk why you kept on bleeping out the word tung in that starting story       ;)
Just for the record... having played around with human skulls in anatomy class, and according to my brilliant anatomy teacher, there is no valid scientific way to distinguish male and female skulls.
Somebody told me about these and I thought it was a joke. Fuck me.
TRP/PUA side of the manosphere hate incels and MGTOW
They can imagine how a woman feels, but not *how* a woman feels
God, incel logic without the misogyny is so eerily similar to my own dysphoria. That diagram with the 'chad skull' and 'incel skull' just sends images of myself with a mirror, obsessing over the slope of my chin and my weak jawline and tiny neck, being left to an emotional breakdown on how I'll never look like a 'real man' and that nobody will ever love me because I look so young and ugly. The opening monologue about 'how a woman feels' is probably verbatim a conversation I've had with myself, but amplified because of my anatomy and how I won't ever be able to properly perform those sexual acts. It sounds insane when you say it out loud or type it out but honestly I don't think I'll ever be able to escape those kinds of thoughts, but I'm just glad I at least somewhat know how to deal with them instead of turning to intense hatred and massacre.
So what I am getting from this is that you really wan't to have sex with nature, specifically water... Good luck with that.
Why of all things is this making me cry. I do tend to be pretty negative towards people in general but I've never been as self destructive as these people. I could never subject myself to this much self loathing.
OMG YOU ARE HILARIOUS  <3
I was shaking my damn head when you started talking about how you don't think you're gorgeous. You're goddamn beautiful and you make amazing content, so shut that garbage down, Natalie. 😘😘😘
"jordan peterson a sexist old man"? you are on crack you tranny
That's it. I'm gonna go fuck the ocean.
you are not a woman
Did not expect this quality of content when I first clicked, but WOW, I'm happy I clicked!
Muy bueno tu video, muy profundo, excelente abordaje para entender a los INCEL.
Please start an ASMR channel
Ive never heard of this channel before but I love it 😁
AGP
You just earned yourself a subscriber you mystical knowledge wizard
I really hope you read this because this is my first comment on your videos and I just want you to know that you are extremely informative and I enjoy your videos so far. God bless you, beautiful one.
I have so much respect for you
You make that video a lot about yourself...But then the costumes lighting and music is pretty nice.
Rodgers was actually attractive it's sad how incels bring eachother down like that, I wanna help them but they wont let me I guess
I fuckin love ur classy look sis
I guess incels can only imagine.  too bad none of them have jobs and contribute to society by having a job
A long ass video, but worth every second. Kept my attention all the way through. Informative and funny. Definitely subscribed.
I came back to this video after just watching the older pickup artist video you made, and I’m laughing because I just made the connection that the author of Bang and the baking is masculine and scientific guy are the same person
Currently losing braincels
Imagine how an insightful comment feels.  Imagine the sense of connection to your audience.  Imagine the cascade of likes, the thread of agreeable comments building upon the themes of the original, exploring every frame of your video with respect and appreciation.  You will never get to experience this because ain't no planet X comin' 'cause ain't no space 'cause ain't no globe earth.   SIgned, Summer Glau
Thanks for telling me about these subreddits. Time to pound some fat sweaty nerds over the internet!
Just stopped at 27:00 to remind Contra that she is a gorgeous goddess
I loved this!! (your research and presentation not the incels)
I thought you are a CIS-woman. It is very difficult to distinguish. I'm amazed cool.
I need a full episode dedicated to erotic sea-speak
Amazing
This music liiiiiit
Jesus fucking Christ these "CELS" need psychiatric help, NOW
"At least these dicks care enough about my pussy to be an asshole about my dick" - that is a beautiful line
God, I wanna fuck that ocean.
oh damn you are great
brb going to block 4chan's IP address forever so I don't destroy my mental health
I watched this the day it uploaded and I just watched it through again. It's just so entertaining!
Does ultra-masculine mean you look like an armpit with eyes?
Natalie/ContraPoints, I have watched many of your videos, a number of times, and I applaud your content, and your creativity!  Awesome, intelligent, witty work, keep it up! On this particular subject, I can even see how some elements of incel self-abuse can apply to other groups, as you illustrate with yourself. Many of us, including cis gender hetero women like myself, have experienced moments and self destructive thoughts like these. It isn't easy, this business of growing comfortable in your own skin, in a healthy positive way. It IS all too easy, however, to get seriously lost in the dark maze of cynicism, self-loathing and hopelessness; incels, it seems, deal poorly with this daily struggle. They give up, give in, and become resistant to compassionate, common-sense help. I get that, because in my own way, I've been there. It took years and real work, but I found my way out, and I'm in a much healthier, happier space. You seem to be, as well; thank you for helping others, too.
Sometimes I wonder is ContraPoints has parens and if they know about this YouTube channel.
I hope no one takes your perspective 4 granted nor your experiences.
this is my first vid of yours and you're funnyyyyyyy im subbing lol end of video edit you're already one of my favorite you tubers I relate way to hard to guys being creepy  right off the bat
As a recovering incel-ish person I felt a lot of this.I think the main thing that kept me from becoming a full on incel is that my self loathing runs so deep that I blame myself for basically everything rather than blaming others for my problems. I especially agree with the part about using the negativity as a sophisticated form of self harm,and I've always been more willing to trust someone's opinion of me if it's negative. And it's incredibly frustrating when people try to give you advice, even though I understand they're well meaning. I've been told so many times, the old cliche 'just be more confident',and I'm like okay, obviously, but how do I do that? It reminds me of the episode of Beavis and Butthead where they forget how to pee and everyone is so used to just...peeing that nobody can explain how to do it. Which means I should probably talk to a therapist I guess  🤷‍♂️
Goddess
So, phrenology is making a comeback? Good to know we're going in the right direction...
* nasal voice: This is like a very vulnerable moment for me
All the geeks/nerd-types I know never want for anything in the department of mates and casual sex. It's not 1985 anymore. We are truly living in times when intelligence has become a form of sexual attractiveness for many women seeking a mate. Being stupid is not cool anymore. The only thing that makes these men "incels" is that they're entitled assholes with HORRIBLE people skills, and I don't mean being an introvert. I'm an introvert who has my share of socially awkward traits and I'm STILL not an incel. These are just horrible people that at best encourage each other to self-sabotage. And it kinda doesn't help their case that they hate the very gender they're expecting to be recognized by.
Contrapoints says Stratocaster  Shows picture of Fender  I chuckle and look into the comments for angry guitar fanboys but don't find any :(
This video is so beautifully crafted and well-made. Well done 👏🏻
This is a masterpiece! ✨ Awesome work ✨
This is my first time seeing one of your videos. I’ve been missing out!
I'm sorry if this sounds insensitive or that I didn't pay attention at all to the video and just spent the whole time staring deep into your eyes so that I may consume your soul. But when you brought up how much you worry about looking like a woman, I was genuinely surprised because to me you definitely look like a woman. Sorry if it sounds like I'm trying to flatter you. But I just wanted to say that at least I think you look like a woman, whatever that's worth.   Also your videos have really helped me understood what it's like to be a trans woman.
Omg this is the first video of yours i've seen. Feels like i've been missing out.
Just realized this, is the beginning thing philosophytube?
Just found your chanel . 2 words : LOVE YOU!! Have an extrordinary and pleasand day, *salutes*
This is art.
Love? Hilarious I am 45 I been wondering wtf "incel" means for years but, it matters so little I found this vid ramdomly. Love is a imaginary social construct. I see the confusiom as Love and Sex are clearly not tied to one another in any meaningful way. Further more the incel insecurity and belief that women or any other group should give you value is just ridiculous  .  I would say the single moms with fathers not present for whatever reason is the start of incel. Sorry ladies but without discipline, acceptance of energy, etc. , all the father given qualities tend to sqaush incellular behaviour. On the whole...lol
People still gab about Paris Hilton? 😂💀
I'm here from Polygon, fantastic video!
This is a brilliant video. You have a lot of insights. I would have never thought about the tangential relation between incels and the TS experience but what you say is very true. Both groups share a lot of self loathing. One thing I would say to all incels is desperation breeds rejection. Lack of confidence breeds rejection. You have to not give a fuck. Stop worrying about it. You have to be confidant or at least act confidant and you have to not be needy.  Its the desperation that kills. No matter how you look.
Conclusions that I've made after watching your video:  1. Those who are brought up as men have quite the knack for being violently cruel for entertainment and status through trying to destroy other people (maybe even themselves), and yet are protective of this terribleness as if their status will be lost if they don't. At what point does an individual or a community realize that the idea is not good enough to prize the status it brings?  2. To love is to be brave. And those brave enough to try to love, feel rejected, and try to love wholeheartedly again should be championed.  3. When I was about 6 years old, in my earliest years of school, a girl came up to me and explained how dating works. She told me that it is, "the boy who asks out the girl." That struck me for a moment. I understood that the boy is always the one who feels rejection, always the one who's hurt by the girl through this rule; and within that moment, I concluded that such a rule was bullshit. I maintain that to this day. Every man I've ever dated I have asked out. All nerdy men of different sorts, of whom peaked my interest simply for their knack for being able to talk to me about Batman, their hopes and dreams, World of Warcraft, or this stupid inside joke we have. It is a very tense experience to have the nerve to ask someone out and I don't regret doing so; I have proven I can be strong and I've maintained friendships even after the break up. My refusal to submit to traditional gender roles was my first feminist thought. How perplexing that such Incels hate the feminists of whom hold the ideas that would set them free.
The first time I watched this I wasn't familiar with Philosophy Tube, but now, getting to hear Olly say that in the opening is just transcendent.
Apparently they refer to transwomen as scifems? Idk...
This video is just so great. It is very funny and well thought out.
LETS REPLACE WOMEN WITH TRAPS!!!!
Can I just say that your use of background music in the latter-middle half of this video is really ominous and highlights how dark and hopeless these types of communities can feel. Really immersed me into the video!
As a used to be incel I can tell you this is all true.
I feel like the Inherent Eroticism of the Sea is a reference to Albert Camus's The Stranger.  The protagonist is a nihilist disconnected from the people around him, and that doesn't really value anything. Yet, he starts to appreciate life when he hears and smells the sea, expressing the idea that life's justification is A E S T H E T I C
I think there are pick up artists who see women as loveable. Many don't thats true and sad, but there are some young men can get good advice from. Of cource just as long you take it with a grain of salt on watch out when they are selling their stuff
I am still not sure is she man or woman. But she looks 100% like a woman.
what is the name of the song when david attenborough enters the scene?
u looked especially beautiful on this one
This is actually a really interesting channel,,in surprised its never showed up in my feed before
I was just browsing through videos on YouTube and stumbled across this. Well, My eyes have been opened. Thank you.    Wow, Yeah heavy stuff...
My eyes have been opened to the inherent eroticism of the sea
19:46 you know you're a woman, when this happens
U are beautiful
NPCs
So enjoying your well played informative thoughtful videos ... ✨✨✨✨💫🙏🏼
any guy calling women "f e m o i d s" is a major red flag for me dawg
Your videos are hard to watch man. Like, I want the information, but bro. This ain't right. And I don't say this as one affiliated with the alt right or anything, I'm a member of some other group the alt right would be more than happy to see exterminated. I just have to respectfully put this out there because while I think you have some good ideas and information, to tell people it's okay to do this to themselves (i.e. mess with their natural biology) is to set them up for a very hard time in life, and that's not right. People should not be convinced that this is appropriate.
The irony of a sexually confused freak talking about incels....  You couldn’t pay a porn star to touch you.  Do your retarded followers understand that you are below incels?
this video screams “sophistication” im in love with your video style 💖
*Insert highest praise one can think of here* ❤️
i guess the only thing i have in common with any incels is that neither of us are getting laid anytime soon. i am self aware enough to acknowledge this. i'm an introvert, i have a defeatist attitude, i'm kind of an asshole to people i think are just not worth mine or anyone's time (a.k.a. other assholes). but i do try to better myself, and that i feel differentiates me from these people. I actually try to better myself, where these poor people just stew in their slumps and think that they are stuck the way they are and that there is no use in betterment or believe these false delusions about females
Nut
This may sound bizarre. But I think my girlfriend and I just flirted using incel lingo, ironically of course because at this point neither of us qualify.
I tried to find my looks match but it is so hard... cause I am so f-ing hot it is just crazy. I look like poster of Thor...yeah, I actually look better than Hemsworth...he needs lightning and make up to look that good while I am just living ultra god poster. On 10 point scale I am 11. I have never met women who would even manage to approach my level of sexiness.  Just to give you a bit of perspective most Hollywood actresses are like...8 for me.  Please help, it is so f-ing lonely to be the most perfect being alive.
This was INSANELY brilliant.  Subscribed and excited for more content in the new year!
There's so many good points in this but I love that this also acts as a sort of best hits of all your previous videos
I didn’t realise it was this deep...
BRAVO!!!  Nailed EVERYTHING! Perhaps the most introspective, rational and well thought-out YouTube video I've ever seen!
An ultra masculine bread scientist 😂
Can't all this just be summarized as "IT'S SOMEONE ELSE FAULT I'M A VIRGIN"
Amazing vid
They live in such a bubble omfg. Heightcel, wtf. There’s a dude at my school whose even shorter than me (I’m 5”5) who’s dating one of the most popular and well sought after girls in the school. He’s very well liked. Because his personality is awesome and he’s just very genuine and likeable. These fucks wouldn’t get where having a genuine personality gets you. Much farther than just looking nice. There are a ton of people at the school who look much nicer than this kid, who aren’t even close to his popularity.
It's late, and many have so eloquently praised you here so all I'll say is  I LOVE YOU 😍
This is my first video of yours that I’ve watched and I already love your channel
*FUCKABLE SKULLS* I’m screaming 😭😂
It feels weird that I just realised I actually find the guy on the r/braincels banner at the beginning of the video to be somewhat attractive, like, he's smiling, has good cheekbones and, though I don't like what he's done with his hair, he has enough of it that it could easily be restyled to compliment his face better. This is the poster child of inceldom and yet it's possible for people to find him attractive - that shows you how much of a mountain-out-of-a-molehill situation being an incel can be.
Why did you change your gender?
Just to educate you on Incels because i am one myself thanks. I think of women as women and i respect them, in every way but in return they call me a manlett. And a creeper so i just dont talk to them anymore.....because everytime i see a girl in public that is barely dressed and i look at her body she calls me a creep and women always say stop objectifying women but yet they wear all their clothes too small, and their breast and buttocks are bursting out of their clothes....thats not fair is it? i actually want an answer:_______________
Actually thought there was some guest and not actually contrapoints
I can't tell whether Contrapoints is completely unaware that most "incels" are ironic or is deliberately misconstruing them to make Patreonbux.  There are a lot of men who don't get laid, and the majority of them are physically/mentally normal specimens who have enough experience in how "sexual liberation" has destroyed gender relations and average female behavior that their desire to not get involved with women outweighs their desire to procreate. Making the choice to avoid women is obvious not going to be a permanent one for most, and it makes a lot of men lonely and bitter.
Dudes get outta limits sometimes
I’m an incel. I know I’ll never be able to convince anyone to love me. I don’t blame women for my problems. I’ll have to pay for sex/human contact for the rest of my life. That’s nobodies fault but my own.
The angle and constant movement of that semi full wine glass gave me mucho anxietyo
Incels are assholes. Figuritively and literally fuck nature. Got it. 👍
4:43 the "Becky" looks cuter than the "Stacy"
1:51 THAT FAUX CYRILLIC
AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA💕💕💕💕💕
Omgomgomgomg you aRe so hawt💕
I think the hardest thing to accept in this video is that the incel train of thought is one that, even if you don't buy into it completely, is likely engrained in a lot of men to some extent.  Like, look at the list at 30:40.... how far down this train of thought have I been down? 5? 6 even, on occasion? When I was younger?  I'm glad that you mentioned that you could sort of empathize with that defeatism, because that empathy is hopefully will get these people through what's clearly a very hard thought process to shake
Well, that was disturbing. Especially realizing that I'm at "black pill" stage 5. Not going any further because I'm not a psychotic misogynist monster, but still.
You come across as such an insufferable and pretentious narcissist that's impossible for me to actually listen to you. Try crawling out of your own ass for a change.
17:21 PLOT TWIST.  I honestly didn't consider that you were trans until after I paused the video at 15:20. When I came back to it an hour later, about a minute in, I considered the possibility, but swayed back the other direction... then BAM
someone recommended your channel some time ago but i didn't stuck around, i forgot you were trans until you brought it up in the middle of the video lol your skull is on point ma'am
These guys have it all wrong I have a  disability and I was able to experience all the things they think they will never get to experience.  Funny thing is the incels called me the skinny 115 lbs man who uses a wheelchair a Chad.
In the old days, they'd be drafted into the army, sent off to die in a foreign battlefield, and... problem solved.
I almost want to write a story in a terrible dystopian universe where all this is true. almost.
Is there any words for Hispanic/Latino incels? Hispanic/Latino Chads?
Wow, just discovered this video because i'm on web loop about incels. Normally i do not leave comments on youtube but just too let you know, wow what a quality video you've got here. Great job, thank you for that. Super impressed [some cute emoji] bye
I am thankful for having seen this video. I think every single emotion available passed through me at some point during its runtime, but in the end, I felt hopeful and happy. Thanks for making this, this is the best video I've ever seen!
Besides all the info, yes, you are gorgeous. #notahon
I felt disturbing similar disturbing sympathy at some of the posts scoffing at the “just go outside argument”. Sure it’s to the point that they’re shut-ins to hikkikomori levels ,but I wouldn’t be surprised if many men became incels because of their introversion in the first place
And right from the opening it sounds like the letter of a serial killer!
Yay Baltimore!
i deeply appreciate this video, but i do feel like you went a bit soft on the more violent sides of the community, like the ones that full on worship people like Elliot Rodger. my cousin Marissa was in the sorority he had originally targeted, and was at a friend’s place a block away from the sorority house when the shots went off. she’s still pretty traumatized about it. i can definitely admit that knowing about this and having a personal connection to this stuff colors my view of it pretty drastically, but the amount of psychotic, sadistic ranting that has happened on incel forums truly scares me.
I love this so much 😂
Also, BRUH, how’d you know that biblically violent storms and lightning make my dick *ROCK HARD?!?!?!?* I feel like I’m having mind games played on me right now.
Gordon Ramsay is a professional chef, with renown absolutely *fucking worldwide.* He’s also a very hyper-masculine guy, just not overtly jacked. You know what I think he’d tell that bread scientist guy? “Oh, *FUCK OFF, YOU FUCKIN MOPPET.”*
TIL that r/roastme is akin to cutting yourself
Some Incels could be asexual maybe?
Tag yourself I'm the black pill
I don't know if I've already commented on this video or not, but I noticed something just now: 7:31 "is it weird at all that some men have thicker dicks than my wrist?"  If I could talk to that OP, I'd say "here's what's TRULY weird, my dude: how do you KNOW that? Have you actually MET these men? Did you... do a side-by-side comparison? Is that how straight dudes spend their time?? Did y'all break out the measuring tapes?!? HOW DID YOU OBTAIN THIS KNOWLEDGE???"  ...Actually, y'know what? Nevermind. It's always been a bad habit of mine to ask questions I probably really DON'T want answers to.
I just had to comment that my wrists are the thinnest adult wrists known to man. I am 36 yet can encircle my whole wrist using my middle finger and thumb.   Even my wife and son laugh at my girly wrists. Yes that's right. I am married and have never had any trouble attracting women. My trick was to respect them as humans, make them laugh whilst being confident. It's not hard to get laid.
Thank you for a very enlightening video! I can sort of understand where these people come from, because fear of rejection (and feeling lonely) is something that can be extremely distressing, and teaming up with people who feel the same way, is a way to regain some sense of power. Blaming women means you don't have to face your fears at all, it's simply someone else's fault. While it may be appealing and soothing to escape your fear by avoidant behavior, nothing good can come out of it, becase your fear will always catch up with you eventually and toxic environments will always make you sick. The key to actually finding love and attraction, is to be open for it (ie. believe in it) and to love yourself. The incel community will obviously never help anyone with either of those things. If you long for love, you will not find it there.
So many flaws in what you said. These are people with  manic depression who have convinced themselves the right thing to do is shoot up a school.     Not sure how that is comparable to Men’s Rights Activists who are just talking about how 73% of suicides are men and more than 40% of domestic violence victims are men
I love the lighting, backdrop, and outfit! So much  a e s t h e t i c s
Matt Colville led me to you, and now I'm in love. Thank you for this video.
Matt Colville led me to you, and now I'm in love. Thank you for this video.
CHADPREET. I AM LITERALLY DEAD OVER THIS. 😂😷😷😷😷
This is my 3rd time watching this, did you edit this again??? Haha
Omg you are amazing!
The blackpill is a brutal way of looking at the world. A lot of young people today are soft and weak and just can't deal with it. I might be a millennial but i look to the war time generation as an example. I deal with it. The incels don't say anything controversial. A combination of feminism and the decay of a post industrial society has basically turned our monogamous society into a polygamous one. You reap what you sew feminists. The whirlwind is coming and its going to be biblical.
This video was dope. Also as a “heterosexual man” I think you’re pretty hot. We’re all just looking for human connection right?
i thought this was a music video from the thumbnail
Incels have been around for a long time.  I remember reading a book about them a few years ago.  However those originally described as incels were not noted for being especially hostile to women but just socially awkward and more wedded to ideal fantasy lovers than real everyday women.  This social media based type seem to be a different bunch of people - more misogynists than true incels.
In incel circles they constantly talk about cute girls and post pictures of them; their lifefuel is shallow. Usually "average" to them is 19 yo white girl which is actually 9/10 compared to most women, and who is by no means their looksmatch as she's actually "prime." Men don't lose SMV with age per se because it wasn't their youth that necessarily made them appealing. Incels hate on 30+ women and consider them subhuman roasties. What incels ignore is that all their hatred and disgust towards older women gives them away; the fact is, they focus in on girls that are only briefly cute to them and men, and act as if these girls are truly "looksmatched" to them when that isn't actually true.  When female incels enter these circles, they never speak of Chad, and even mentions like "I like guys with big hands" will get them dogpiled by random incels and bullied and accused of being Chadsexual. The ones that are actually being preoccupied on looks are the incels, so they basically have to invent that these girls are just a bunch of liars and will always be compelled towards Chad. Memes like "Teehee he's 6"5 btw" are flung at lifefuel posts about incels finding true love, and various other insults about him being betabux or that she's going to cheat on him. Incels, when confronted, say it was all a joke--all the dozens of people attacking the guy that found love.  It's because they are mentally handicapped and an actual hive mind that has sustained itself on successfully convincing itself that it's other people that's the NPCs.   The great irony of incels is that it would be extremely low IQ for women to date them, and that women are better off being forever alone than dating one. Women need a reliable guy that isn't a complete self-absorbed with his own glute bones and constantly letting petty things hold him down. Women need a reliable man - even many BAD BOYS are superior to incels - it's stupid to be knocked up by a guy that would have settled down with literal millions of the other women he asked but, arbitrarily, chose the one that is accessible and said "yes." Because, they are the men that won't actually care for who you are, and will probably be the first to run if he actually gets appealing and can get Stacy one day. NOTE: I've actually seen dozens of stories of ugly women settling for desperate guys and ether getting abused or dumped with time because the guy started getting money. Yes. It's women that totally can't love, lel.   I also met an incel that was Chad-tier and actually got women to treat him well in passing or even outright PRESENT themselves - including a HOT BLOND - to him waiting for him to make the first move. His country is extremely conservative and despite never even experiencing being ugly and having female friends, he still feeds off the hatred of women and acts as if he isn't in the top 20%. He rages when he sees normal men in relationships. He struggles with even talking to anyone in real and is basically an autist who fails to realize that literally he's a personalitycel. If the black pill can work on him of all people that's how you know it's pretty bullshit.   He's 6"4, has Chad frame and skull, beautiful model face. He spends his time online cycling through memes like "GIrls throw concrete at me because I'm so subhuman" for hours on end. And, this isn't even an exaggeration. I'd like to meet more incels that charm people regularly and have a ton of well adjusted friends that loves him in real because honestly they're lacking. Most of them are awkward and their possible ugliness DID catalyze them becoming awkward, but ultimately, most would be okay if they actually had charisma, looksmaxxed, and weren't desperate.
My boyfriend is arguable a lot hotter than me. This *damn* dazzling personality of mine got their scale all out of wack. 🤷‍♀️
I just discovered the channel (via Lindsay The Bee Ellis), it's genius, thanks in general :) Just a question, I'm sure I'm missing something, but where does the Moods of the Sea/Mendelssohn/Vorcapic reference come from ? xD I never thought I'd see that kind of reference in a ytb video ^^ I got that because I read Brian J. Jones' bio of George Lucas and realized how direct cinema influenced SW (life changing discovery for me), but I don't know if in this video it's a common reference from elsewhere. I'm asking bc I can't find the answer anywhere
This video would have been so depressing if it wasn't for your great sense of humour.
0:00 Anyone else burst out laughing when a word was bleeped out?
Lol, oh the irony. Incels keep themselves celibate with all this shit. Hey Incels! No one else thinks this way, and it's probably why they're able to get laid.
When you were talking about worrying that you look masculine I waned you to know that I didn’t realize you were trans until you said so. You are beautiful and you don’t need to worry about bone structure!
I don't think you should equate incels with men's right activists.
This sounds a lot like bulimia/anorexia forums.
Thank you for looking fabulous enough to make me sit through this 😅
I wonder how people like those poor bastards lived in other periods of history
Found this linked on Reddit. Appreciate the time and reflective thought on these groups. Also, thank you for some of the jargon. Although some phrases speak for themselves, this video has made r/inceltears posts make more sense.
Huh, I didn't know the term Catastrophizing was a term. I used to do this, and my friends and I referred to it as "Spiraling"
This was great
To be fair, you need a super high feminist IQ to understand baking is indeed, a science, who woulda thunk that turning raw materials into food, might be more than just magical stuff that your microwave does via magic...Okay, dropping the sarcasm, 0:02 seconds in, reading the comments and I am 99% sure, people here, are retarded. If for some reason you don't think cooking, baking, is science, I will ask you: How does a strove work, how does a microwave or an oven, how does bread get made? It's all science in some form or another, a LOT of our daily life is based off science, a good chunk we don't have to make, or think of yourself, but it is still science. I am 99% sure none of you even know how toilets fully function, if you think you do, write down what you think, google it, and come back with an edit of how WRONG you are.  I am not an incell fan, in fact, I find them the funniest thing besides idiots that thing cooking/baking isn't science.  However, I love one thing more, I love mocking people for being stupid, and sharing stupidity. I am not a fan of yours, I don't know how I got here, and frankly, I am going to leave. Commies do not hold a particular interest of me. But I thought I would mock some of your viewers for being too dumb to know exactly what cooking is, how things function, and that cooking shouldn't be a gendered thing, because any fucking human that's lived alone, should know how to cook. How the fuck else do you eat, by eating fast food until you explode? Or by microwaving shit? (Microwaves are actually pretty dope to learn about, but that's a side tangent.) Like, judging from your comments, it seems to me you're a bunch of communists that reject the notion that science is essential to life. And maybe I'm judging you unfairly based on the comments, but subs tend to pick up things from the video they are posting on. So it does lead me to conclude you bring up something about cooking/baking not being science. If I am wrong, I am sorry. But I still think anyone that thinks cooking is not scientific, is moronic and needs to be sent to a right proper Gulag.
First time viewer. great video.   Also the  Phrenology ASMR @22:01 is totally my thing. I feel like that's cheating.
7:55 MY REACTION WAS THE SAME AT THAT MOMENT
I have no sympathy for incels.   They're just another form of your typical resentful, entitled millennial communist except their brand of Marxism focuses on sexual rather than economic wealth.   Both groups patently refuse to accept responsibility for their own suffering and rather than just getting off their asses and fixing their problems, they demand that the world change to accommodate them at the expense of others. Luckily, incels tend to commit suicide whereas traditional communists believe themselves to be of value to the human race.
Really informative deconstruction of this issue.    I also think something that needs to be taken into consideration as  motivation of the incel is:  Narcissistic Personality Disorder.   Aside from the obvious fact that incels lack empathy for others, their need to castrophasize their personal disappointments into apocalyptic problems associated with all of humanity, seems like a by-product of being profoundly self-absorbed and sociopathic.  Textbook Narcissistic Personality Disorder.  "If things are going bad for me.. it's not my fault.. it's all of humanity's fault.."   That idea that it could never be their own personal life choices that caused their fate is totally alien.  In my experience I see narcissism as the common thread in a good many of the antisocial peer groups you examine and discuss.   The new wave of white nationalism is a bunch of white people seeing non-white people do better than themselves, and rather than take responsibility, they blame it on immigrants or "globalists."  Same thing with incels.  They see other people having relationships, and rather than take responsibility for their own lives, they say "society is broken."   Even the right's hatred of healthcare reform is rooted in narcissism: "My premium went up - screw everybody else."   These people lack an innate ability to actually see anything through anybody else's perspective.   A profound lack of empathy.  I think it's time we started to recognize this as a core/causal effect in these movements.  Thoughts?
This is the first video I've ever come across on your page and it's so well done and well written. I'm subscribing!
Hella Scorpio vibes
Very well structured and produced, noice!
DAMN!!!! U R CLASSYYYYYYY!!!!!
Ugh...getting girls is easy bro, just be a rockstar...fucking idiot
Im not an incel but you didn't talk about heightism 🤔
I thought you were cis.
Frigging great video! Also, makeup on POINT! I LOVED the look with the big aristocrat wig and that soft lighting. So gorgeous!   Also, about halfway I felt like I could recognize the voiceovers... Oh, hi Olly.
Love the combination of informative content with lots of style. Subscribed!
Look like a Stacy but think like a Becky 👸🏻📖
We need to Queer Eye all of these folks.
I don't think I've ever said this to a woman, but I fucking love you. At least your ideas. And presentation. And your love of the natural phenomena transferring immense amounts of energy.   Hm. Guess I'm in denial about being a nature-sexual.
Pussy is in the eye of the beholder!
that was the most instructive, hilarious, poetic, human, beautiful video I have seen since many years on youtube...thank you !!!
lol the wrist cell is exactly like that always sunny Philadelphia where charlies uncle is sensitive about his wrists
I mean to be fair Von Braun was a literal Nazi, he was a high ranking SS man who designed rockets to kill British civilians which were built by forced laborers, many of whom died of starvation or were murdered
my  god how have I never found your channel before???? I love you????
finally, finally a point on which i agree with you: calling women 'females' pisses me off, its like we are talking about a bunch of fucking buffalos
Natalie, you are the best thing on the internet.
Love life& Anarchy
WTF I just watched Crap
Just might be the best video I have ever watched, I may have fallen in love...
"Skull-people" :)))
Genius! This video is one of the best I've seen ever no lie
[ ~ © H @ D P R £ £ T § ~ ]
time to move to baltimore to score a date with contrapoints like the bangable twink I am
You look amazing.
This video was so informative and well put together, wish i had seen it sooner cause i relate to a lot of it. I definitely think catastrophic thinking must be treated with therapy and not logic. When you start off with delusional/optimistic expectations for others and then get heartbroken when not received, you look to negativity as your "reality" because you don't REALLY know where you lie in terms of thinking and perception of reality in comparison with others.
As a female possible ex incel (by connotation, not denotation), im familiar with the catastrophic mindset. The thing about me tho was that i always came out of it by either using logic or just hope (because i never went on forums that shame "hopecels") so that's what always saved me.   Before i started my "self-love" journey, I was brutally socially unaware, anxious, awkward, inept (in that particular order) and didn't take care of myself to top it all of. I was still slowly recovering from a giant inferiority complex from elementary and middle school. I realized though that all of this was as a result of being sheltered and voluntarily anti-social. It all started when i stopped being negative and having "Masochistic Epistemology". After building up enough hope/self-encouragement/motivation, I started to work out and condition my hair and go out and be less... socially inept (through making mistakes, embarrassing myself and learning from it).   The worst part about incels themselves tho is the internalized toxic masculinity and misogyny (ahem Roosh), because it teaches them that positivity and hope is not exactly masculine/logical/scientific whatever. Shaming "hopecels" is the worst move you could make and on top of that, saying women have makeup and that there is nothing for men creates more negativity. Women like when men are """"feminine""""" (in other words, not toxically masculine) (hope and positivity should not be seen as masculine or feminine) and men who do things out of their own best interest are what the world needs.  It is sad though that girls have makeup to change how they look, however, men are more visual creatures than women. Women tend to like familiarity and comfort and stuff like that (not encouraging anyone to tell a girl with amnesia that they're her boyfriend hahaha i mean go out and talk to girls, you never know!), if they aren't gold diggers or girls with daddy issues. Part of this all is to be more realistic with your standards. I feel like inceldom starts with over positivity (delusion) and then swings into over negativity (and for some, never swings back). I wish i had seen this video way sooner for it might have made my life easier a lot earlier.
This video is perfect.... 35 minutes never pass so fast
4:12 Interesting...
Great Video, really good
This was a surprisingly great video actually
Sweet sweet brilliant ContraPoints, where have you been all my life. Google’s algorithm, mysteriously deeming me worthy, put this clip in my YT feed: life is forever brightened. Now, eternally subscribed. To share! Forthwith, incessantly. Solidaritously yours in the TransOdyssey,  —Mr. Get-Thee-To-Lecture-in-SF.
Who apologizes for using offensive terms in context? Especially words as innofensive as "Ricecell" lmfao
When I was around 28 (35 today, still the kissless virgin man), I had the bad feeling that I wasn't the only one and that one day there'll be an outcry by a group of people like me who won't take it anymore...see what's happening now... =_=
You know that the 80/20 rule is not a lie right. this was a study published by OK cupid where 80% of the females were attracted to only 20% of the males. of course OK cupid deleted that study but you know, people coming to your channel only want to confirm their biases so it's not a big deal if you lie about a fact and make it a 'belief'.
Aw man now I feel bad, I call people hon and honey a lot :') shit
this is probably the best time in life to keep all your thoughts to yourself.  don't share anything with anyone.  everybody has everybody else all figured out, and there is no point of communicating any of your feelings.. because either you follow someone's advice or you get judged and condemned.   since everyone knows all the answers.  incels think they have all the answers, the non incels think they have all the answers..    the best thing to do here is just stop talking.   and I definitely intend to stay as far away from discussing this topic as I can
The TTTT and all those kinds of digital self harm places need to be made illegal cause goddamnit that is the worst thing I’ve ever heard of, also (completely separate) my big sister showed me your channel and I just want to say that you’re an amazing and super funny and interesting and smart lady (I’m 14 and am mentally like a kid so I can say lady) and all those people that would insult are super mean cause you’re awesome
These guys are pathetic....I mean they're all sad little men that need to seek therapy.
"Grab them by their Black Ops t-shirts"    LOL
I went on the incel's Reddit and some of them are actually good looking like the short ones but they hate themselves so much they can't see it. Most of their problems come from their view of women, which makes a man less attractive to women.
After 5:40 you earned a new subscriber lmao keep it up.
as a mentalcel i listened and i agree with you
I have a friend who isn't a misogynist nor does he identify with incels but he has almost word for word has expressed a lot of black pill philosophy. I'm really worried for him, he's a really good guy. It's scary to see spaces online popping up that encourage and exacerbate that sort of mental process
Sex is about reproduction. We all have twice as many female ancestors. That means a large number of men never got to reproduce. Biologically, that's failure. Failing doesn't feel very good.
Just wanted to say your videos are very very interesting, so glad I stumbled upon your channel...keep up the awesome work!  P.S. You look absolutley gorgeous and have a very calming voice that I love hearing!  Thank you for being on youtube!
Imagine berating people for posting sui fuel by arguing that they're "not responsible" and then going to make a 35 minute video essentially mocking their entire world view. Sounds suss to me
Great video. Expect when you call Jordan Peterson kind of sexist, that was just dumb.
The quicksand that ensures a perpetual paucity of pussy for these pathetic posers is their gameless grandiosity spurred on by stagnating in the swamp of social retardant, plutocrat fueled propaganda in the alt/far-right  sausage party echo chamber. You have arrived at inceldom by design. People far up the rung from you have fed you your protocol, personalities, politics, hysteria, historical fallacies, isolating ideologies to make you desperate and delusional, and obsequious to their ultimate agenda, as a gullible, radicalized unpaid army and hopelessly loyal voters/supporters... Preaching to the choir and vice versa is not the answer for you. You have cultivated a creepy and repulsive fucking personality and mentality. You are self-absorbed, falsely entitled, falsely "enlightened" with complete bullshit and your terrified insecurity wearing a dollar store masculinity Halloween mask isn't fooling anybody. Women smell this from a mile away. You are extremely gullible, and you are exactly the result that the plutocrats, the Russian trolls, etc. hoped for when they created all of these stupid "secrets" you misinterpreted as some sort of ancient wisdom. You're not fucking autistic, either. A lot of us can relate to a degree or understand to a degree what you're going through, and even how you've reached this mindset. Tons of us suffer from depression, body dysmorphia, self-loathing, etc., but don't wind up disgusting, demented conscienceless losers bereaved of all empathy and pretending to hate and be superior to or disaffected by things you fear, want, envy and don't understand. This is not about being "PC", which is a cute codeword for "why can't I drop N bombs and burn crosses in yards!? Because it hurts snowflakes' feelings!" You are so fucking transparent it is embarrassing. I get douche-chills from hearing your redundant, regurgitated pseudo-intellectual sissy bullshit. Most of us just get called PC because we despise racist scumbags. Humor is way different than trying to disguise your insecure xenophobia with hatespeech and neo-nazi sentiment and trying to pass it off as a joke. I don't like the feminazi Ying to your incel lemming Yang either, but not everything is to the utmost fringe and extreme in the real world like it is in the grandiose hallucinogenic cartoon tinted glasses through which your cyber-exile has you viewing the world. Get the fuck off of the internet, these forums are the biggest bane to recent generations' existence my The biggest losers and con artists have become unlikely messiah's because of these stupid platforms. Put your fingers down your fucking throat and puke up your red and black pills, and escape the echo chamber, or you will just rot in misery. Disingenuousness and propaganda based hatred are not as easy to hide as you think. You need to rebuild your worldview foundations from an entirely different setting. Repent or face somebody like me one day who will truly make you suffer for the nightmare you have inflicted upon the world with your gullible selfishness
Putting incels in hell, the alt/far-right's grim reaper, leaving MAGAts sleeping 6 ft. deeper  🐸💥🔫
In this episode Natalie Wynn tries to convert her entire fanbase to the cult of Dagon by appealing to both possible publics of justified-outer-directioned-revolt women and self-revolted men using skulls as a metaphor to human mortality and life's lack of purpose in order to introduce a much more strong symbolic image: the sea
I love you so much.
What's funny is, the woman narrating this video and the so-called Becky or "normie female" I find a significantly more attractive than the so-called Stacy. I live in Miami Beach, and there's tons of these women who go around in tight dresses with all sorts of curves and a lot of makeup and it just doesn't appeal to me.  It's almost as if... men have their own ideas! In fact, I have a very close friend who is what you would call a Stacey, although she's a very hard worker, but she has modeled quite a bit. She's a very stereotypical Stacy looking girl, with the big boobs, big butt, and always looking flawless. I was never attracted to her, until I got to know her really well. She came over and I got to know her more and more in depth, and I found myself becoming attracted to her.  So it's almost as if, getting to know someone and liking them makes you more attracted to them! What a concept!   I caught a little bit of this video once before, but the second time I found the narrator to be far more attractive because I already had knowledge about how insightful and intelligent she was! Can you believe how crazy that is? Someone became more attractive without changing physically whatsoever.  And that's what all these incels miss out on. Everybody thinks their partner is a 10. My first girlfriend, I was so paranoid, I thought every other man on earth wanted her. But you know, she was beautiful, but not every guy wanted her. She had a lot of issues, and one of the reasons she loved me so much was because she had her own trouble finding a compatible match. We still remain friends, but I can now understand I can now understand why I can now see her in a more realistic light and I realize just how emotional I was.
Aww I love Op.70 no.2!
I can't tell when you're being ironic or not and that's my favorite thing about your channel.
You are beautiful!
Thanks for being so honest and thereby making a great video.
It's a trap
@~15:22 What I got from this video so far is ... ignore all the statistics and female nature,  clean your room and make yourself more approachable... is that pretty much it or did I miss something?   so you are shifting the blame to men... after it's already proven females are a MEME gender.... Okay...
A trans woman discussing incels - this is peak 2018, people. This is what alien archeologists will learn about our time when they'll arrive on our environmentally ravaged planet in the future
When I was -13 years old we had no outlet because Poland was under martial law
I don't know you, I have no idea what you do in life, I have only seen two of your video's, if I'm honest I think you're absolutely mental, but I enjoyed your videos thus far and didn't suspect even a little bit you were a transgender until you said so, so good luck in life and I hope one day people wont bother you in annoying ways anymore. <3
OH MY GOD! I couldn't even imagine what this video will make me feel!  It's amazing content!  You're so smart and bringing such reasonable points, so it a pleasure to watch you and think about what you're saying, but the most beautiful part is your gorgeous sense of humor.   I fell in love with your videos and gonna watch all of them :)  Thank you for what you're doing!
Dr. Jordan Peterson is a "sexist old man" , lost me there
woman brain: baker galaxy brain: b r e a d   s c i e n t i s t
This is fucking great lol I love you
got on /lgbt/ during this vid and first page had a contrapoints thread.. best comment: fellas, is it gay to want to suck her dick?
I love you so damn much!!! Amazing
this is literally the most fascinating and well-made video on youtube. natalie if you see this please date me
Thank you for explaining this!! 🙌
Luckily there are prostitutes people!! lol same thing as having a girlfriend!!
12:20 I swear this guy's beard is fake! I pointed it out in another video when it was shorter and now it looks even more. It's like those theater props or those weirdly-attached beard in low quality/old videogames.
Wow , damn , lots of good information about People and Their Psychologies .    Thanks for the info , and well done with the editing and creepy music .    I'm subbing .    BTW You're Gorgeous , good luck with any work You're getting int he future Be Safe , Be Happy :) .
Well, Roosh convinced me.   Greggs is basically a laboratory.
Why not try revenge?
Women riding the cock carousel in their 20s? I turned 20 this year and found the love of my life, and I'm not even attractive. Jeez. Incels are all kinds of fucked up. Like stubborn children who defy reality, no matter the evidence presented.
25:45 I met a trans woman who looked like a man in a dress and she was amazing. I really liked her a lot and I 100% thought of her as a woman. She had just had the operation and finally her id said she was a woman, so she was really excited and it was really good to see her being so happy with herself. Her having kind of a masculine head didn't bother me at all.
I have thin wrists and I have been with men before who had thinner wrists than mine. What a silly thing to obsess over
Oh great Rao, I am so very glad I’m able to hold onto coherent conversations, and through this I’m able to attract women to want to have consensual sex with me. Because, if I spoke or thought like these incels, I would suck-start a shotgun until it busted a nut through the back of my head.  Sad bastards.
Incels, crazy as they are have some fairly accurate ideas such as hypergamy or them being unfuckable.
Women don't owe incels sex and incels need to get over it.
How dare women day no
its funny how they never think of getting into cock as a solution to their sex woes
Is this person a tranny on purpose or for YouTube?
Your voice changed
Trust me I don't want to experience that
Wait, why do my fellow males care about their appearance this much? Seems like pointless arbitration that will ultimately lead to egotistic delusions of self grandeur or a hopeless sense of vain inferiority which leads to unreasonable angst and hatred towards percieved societal expectations. It will inevitably spiral into a callous mindset of utilitarian nihilism where you think women should have sex with you simply because someone else with a penis did something with their life to make others around them happier. Really depressive way to exist in my opinion. This is great example of toxic masculinity. Men should not have to cognitively filter their experiences in life to affirm some perpetual victim complex created out of a societal viewpoint that values masculine traits in men and demotes emotional, physical, and sexual insecurities as something that can just be "got over" if you worship masculinity and emotionally detach yourself form those around you. The path towards societal acceptance is that of overcoming the restraints of traditional masculinity, not worshipping the values espoused by these corporeal ideas to justify vanity and a self-defeating mindset. I want to help these people, and the shitty thing about it is that people brashly insult them, and satisfy their victim complex. It's not fair, but I feel like if incels are willing to listen, we should at least attempt to reach out to then or help them.
I subscribed as soon as you said "Abigail, leave my fuck hole out of this" 😂😂😂 (I think you're fucking hilarious and have a fascinating perspective and worldview that I find beautiful)
so here's the thing; I'm literally only attracted to men with Chad skulls and thick wrists.  It's been that way my whole life too.  That tells me the incels might be on to something unfortunately lol
This has become one of my favorite youtube videos.
Aaaand now I've discovered I'm sexually attracted to thunder storms lol On a serious note, though, I love this video. The way is speak is so coherent and entertaining and I'm just enamoured right now. I've heard about incels before and the toxicity of that mentality/group, but this just gave me a better idea of how their minds work. I used to view them absolutely horrible human beings, because, as a woman, reading that some people only view you as a sex object... Well, it's a hard thing to hear. Plus, as you said, they really don't hold back on their hatred. I do realise now that they are indeed in need of help - therapy kind of help. I don't feel bad for them and I can't ever agree with how they view the world, but the fact they drive each other to suicide or worse is just... Jesus, just get help. From people who are not looking to brainwash you even further into a dogma constructed around self-hatred. Please, just... Get help. Seriously.
I just saw the tiny thumbnail and then heard the voice of the philosophy tube guy and I thought OK... Is this his second crossdressing channel?
I'll take the "salty embrace of the sea" reference as encouragement to suicide. We all hear what we want to hear.   Outstanding video btw. Well done (again).
MASSIVE man-noggin checking in.
Love how excited she got 'IT ALL COMES DOWN TO THE SKULLS' just like Nazi and racist pseudoscience
So am I Celi-bait since I like nerdy, unusual people? Yeah but I don't lke jerks.
Thank you for sharing your experience with us. It really  helped me understand the world a little better.
Incel terminology is very Orwellian. It’s kind of cute. Don’t women love dudes who use Newspeak?
Oh God, I've found two jewels in a short time. Nerd City and ContraPoints. Thank you wonky youtube algorithm. For once you worked in my favour.
I lost it at Feloid 🤣
I can relate to being obsessed to mm of bones. aS A WoMAn , I feel a huge pressure on me to have a proper proportion of my facial features and hip to waist ratio. So, in the weirdest way I can relate because men also DO judge and reject women based on the same types of criticisms. Like say, too big of a jaw on a girl, or the biggest one, a girl being too fat and things like that. There are judgements and hypocrisy on both ends ya know?
"...infer apocalyptic conclusions..." Guiltyyyyyyyyyy :3
*pounds the desk* LEAVE MY BLACK JACKETS AND LONG STRIDES ALONE YOU BASTARDS!
What the fuck does go outside even fucking mean. You really think people just accept you if you just go outside.
I'd like to watch a video about Feminism, Healthy Romantic Relationships or about Familial and Self-Acceptance. More positive and encouraging topics. Mention how non-white individuals struggle with gender identity and gender-reconstruction surgery, especially non-US individuals (African, Middle-eastern  and South-American). Can you also discuss how media may or may not enforce idolisation of body types?
Does this lady have an Adam’s apple?
this was the first of your videos i've seen and jesus fucking christ that was amazing.
its all true tho
I really enjoy this one. Just a question: What would be the difference between women (mostly radical feminists) complaining that the social norms of beauty are a patriarchal way of oppression to women, spreading hate to "stupid maleness" because they have no eyes for the tenderness of their hearts or what the hell I could possibly know, and the misogynic behaviour of Incels? I would be tempted to say only this: too much fucking safe space; life is hard, even my dog knows that.
Apparently, I'm a female Incel then. I'm not a 'princess in distress' kinda gal and instead, make the first move when it comes to dating quite often. I don't force myself on people, but I start conversations. Or at least I try to because most of the time I'm being rejected. One guy flat out told me, if he wanted confidence like that, he would date another man. If I had just sat on the bar stool for a minute longer, sending him 'those looks' he would have come to me and started flirting with me. (His words, not mine).  That puts me in a weird position because I am one of those people that get rejected very often. On the other hand, Incels are the ones that are most often rejecting me, because it wouldn't be "manly" to flirt with a woman that took the first step. (Or they think I'm kidding and therefore, don't take my advances seriously.) Aaaannnd there we are in that vicious circle of self-doubt and -hating because I seek out men that are more secure in their masculinity or whatever because those "alpha-males" are not afraid of a strong woman. That leaves those that think of themselves as Incels on the sidelines again, at least in my case, because I try to avoid them in order to not get hurt by them.   As I'm bisexual, I have to note that woman don't seem to have this problem. Most females just flirt back or directly say "Sorry, not interested." In the latter case, a pleasant conversation can still be had, but no flirting or more will NOT ensue. I really prefer that kind of directness.
Tfl is real and it is effecting more men every day.
I know it might be too much to hope for, but I genuine would like to believe that this video helped to deprogram a few wayward souls.
I saw this in my recommended and i am so glad. You're beautiful and this video was insightful and intriguing. Keep up the great work 😁
First video I've watched of yours. I didn't even know what incel meant until you laid it out, I just seen the term used on social media. I must admit that I was unaware of how dangerously close I was to the incel ideology. Matter of fact, if I knew of the existence of the forums you mentioned, I very well could have easily been a black pill incel. Just earlier this year, I was at a high point of self-loathing. I lost the best job I ever had. I was in the perfect situation with a woman I felt a true connection with, and I let the opportunity slip through my fingers. I thought so low of myself. I just kept chalking it up to me just being awkward, followed by some misogynistic undertones.   It wasn't until I had a quick exchange with a close friend (K) that my mindset began to change. I had just gotten off the phone with another friend (S), who is truly awkward, S may be on the spectrum, he's never been diagnosed but I digress. After getting off the phone with S, I said to K "S is probably the only person I know more awkward than me." K looked at me funny and said "Dude, you're not awkward, you're a little shy at first, but not awkward. Im more awkward than you." Now when K said he was more awkward than me, I was shocked. I always thought of K as a pretty outgoing and sociable person. It wasn't until after K and I moved out of state together, did I realize he was right. I found myself going out and socializing more than K. He just wanted to stay in his room all the time. He eventually moved back because he wasnt making friends, and I, his only friend in the entire state, was going out and meeting people, building connections. Kind of leaving him behind, so he wasn't happy.   After K told me I wasn't awkward. Something else clicked in my head too. I thought of all the awkward exchanges I had with people over the years. The dropped convos, the silences. Then it hit me. I was never what people expected. I'm not the biggest guy out there, I am 6'2" and 260 lbs. I'm Native American with long flowing hair (my hair is awesome btw). So I'm sure other people had made up their minds about me. All throughout highschool. I constantly exceeded peoples expectations of my intelligence. Teachers and my classmates always seemed surprised when I'd get top scores on my tests, even though I constantly scored high. We all have our awkward moments, but what I realized was that, I wasn't awkward towards other people. They were awkward towards me, because I didn't meet their expectations of me.   I've always been a very approachable person, people are drawn to me. Whatever it is about me, makes others want to open up, but I've never truly returned the favor. My traumas and insecurities have always gotten the better of me. Ive always been good at making friends. It's only in the pursuit of romance do I have a crippling fear of rejection. I tend to feel if they knew what I'd been through and lack of sexual experience, they would reject me. I'm still working on getting over it. It definitely is a process. I have been my own worst enemy this whole time.  I'm not saying that I still don't get rejected, or that I'm some lady killer now. I just realized I was missing all the shots I didn't take. I still deal with a fear of rejection. After figuring out the root cause and becoming aware of my self-sabotaging. That fear has been dissolving every time I put myself out there and let myself be vulnerable. Which I think may be at the root of incel ideology. These men don't want to let themselves be vulnerable because of their own toxic masculinity. They think that because theyre men, they have to act a certain way, and that women are more attracted to that. So when they are rejected, they don't think it could be because of their attitude towards women. That it must be something totally out of their control (i.e skull shapes) Those are just my thoughts on the matter though.   PS: Totally couldn't tell you were trans until you said it.
You lost me at calling Jordan a sexist old man
this is a video essay but also a mukbang
Olly did you have to read that in such a damn erotic way I got distracted from the revolution
Your content is exceptional. Great work altogether
Skull measuring works for distinguishing men and women, though.
This is amazing!!
What a great find! You rock, Contra.
Did it hurt when your dick got chopped off
you got that winona thing going on...noice
These conversations are intriguing
Thank you
if im a hon, whats the point? :(
Hooked me at the beginning. WOW. This is intense, and anthropological, and terrifying, and hilarious, and unlike anything I've ever seen. Just wow.
I'm actually in the first stage of transitioning right now! One of those 4chan posts talks about the folks on Reddit, well I'm one of those folks! Glad I only partially hate myself.
Very cool ,creative,fluid and informative video,but besides that you are just fucking hot and lovely ...totally beautiful
THIS. IS. CONTENT.
Just discovered your channel. I could literally listen to you talk all day.
I love how beyond 'satiring' the meme of incels, you also brought in a personal and psychological analysis of why this behavior exists and how it can be helped
( 33:45 ) [With T L, D R. Don't worry, this isn't rambled politics in the comments section]  Damn. Maybe this is a bit of a conspiracy, but I'll entertain this idea I've been struck by. A person I knew, my father's friend, killed himself by swimming out to the ocean until he couldn't swim any longer. His clothes were found organized farther away from where he was found at some forgotten dock (he swam naked). The last time he was seen by his mother (that he lived with), he hugged her. Even the date of the incident could have connections between his birthday and his photography career.  He was an addict and secluded himself in his art. The way that his last photographs were organized was very deliberate in how cryptic it was. The pictures that he has spoken most positively about were all marked 'Favorite' in his software, which was the most easy to get access to. The latest picture which was made favorite was done on the same day he hugged his mother, the presumed date of his suicide. That picture must have been the one he loved the most. It was a picture of me over in Iceland. Back then he was still allowed to play with me. I think I still got some hazy memories, but I may just be trying to imagine the stories I've been told.  Why am I important? This is about the friend, not me! Well, he was childhood friends with my dad, but never got out of the same phase my dad was in. Lucky for me that my mom saved dad, even if the early first few years were economically difficult. Even though I cannot know, I think I represent a part of the family he never got. That he would only have his cat and mom. It seems to be way too unlikely of a coincidence and, like, something out of a novel. Maybe it's best if I don't consider whether this is real or not.  T L, D R: Someone I knew may have been inspired to commit suicide because of this video, but I feel like I'm extrapolating my emotions to fit my personal experience. Having me and him both been watching this video and him killing himself over it seems unlikely. I can never know the true intent of his suicide and I feel like shit that I presume this video I just personally stumbled upon to be 'the answer'. Much of this content does, however, align with his personal life. It's the highlighted part of the video that really struck me, but oh is it likely that it's a wild coincidence.
Loneliness is the worst thing in the world. It rots you from the inside and makes you into a demon or monster.
Okay...I'm sick of this BS! It's not just incels, but a lot of men (not all, but a lot) don't seem to understand how vaginas work. Y'see, there are ALL KINDS OF VAGINAS OF VARYING SHAPES AND SIZES! Having repeated sex doesn't change the way a vagina looks. The only things that can are surgery, and giving birth. I'm serious, look it up for yourself if you don't believe me.
"Two non-sexual organs unrelated to fertility show fertility."
Thank you for your vidéo
I. LOVE. YOUR. MIND.
I actually love you so much queen. I just watched like two of your long ass videos and damn. I love you. 😍😍😍😍😍😍💖
Great vid Contra. Keep it up!
I fucking love you
I wanna be your friend. You're the coolest.
Your channel has such an incredibly comforting vibe! I watch your videos a lot when I’m feeling anxious.
Is there a dating app where rather than see pictures you can hear their voice?
I was going to joke I must be a VolCel or MehCel until this video reminded me MGTOW was a thing, that I never identified with, because of stronger talking points and having close family of only women.  I am anti feminist for sure, but laugh at mgtow and incel communities for their extremeties. My own situation was caused by nerdy lifestyle, weird school life until 9th grade an beyond, and then add in interests other than fucking, general abdundancy of ALL PORN IMAGINABLE - I dunno. I am not trying and I feel like I am already burden enough to myself, no need to push that burden onto others.  That aside, being incel but not mgtow but not, still antifemnst - this was a good video, and the humor and small understanding of men from your perspective is... Nice, cannot even phrase it better, it is nice.  Also, used to browse 4chan but... Well why I don't is because every board in 4chan is the same thing x topic of the board, abd best most civil discussions can be had over porn or pokemon.  TL;DR: the vid's OK I guess
I slap and knead the dough *AGGRESSIVELY*
Wow, you are an inspiration.
Oooh my godess, my life pre-transition was like a incel life.... wait... i still pre transition trans woman... because my family is transfobic as fuck. So, my problem is not the incel problems, but the trasfobia of my family and the heterossexual women thay wants catch me misgender me (sory for my english, i am a latina)
If i had a incel skull i dont need a facial feminilization surgery
I’m awestruck (and maybe a little turned on) by this talented lady ;-)
The beginning had me ugly laughing. How awful to think bone structure makes someone worth loving
2 minutes into the vid and i can already tell your setup (the interesting lighting, the sparkly and put together outfit) is goals
Imagine if incels discovered that asexuals exist and they live happy and fulfilling lives
I literally had no idea you are trans. im a lesbian <heart eyes>
The example shown of the skull thing actually occurs if you breathe through your mouth too much. Apparently it's something to do with the jaw muscles being too relaxed for too long. It then causes the chin to weaken.   It's correlated to being unfit and when a community details exercise as a Chad activity, it's no wonder why they have a "weak" jaw.
I used to have pity for incels, but after they started attacking sex workers on snapchat, I now hate their scummy guts because I like those services.
great fucking video, glad Philosophy Tube pointed me to your channel.
NEVER NEVER NEVER NEVER NEVER STOP MAKING VIDEOS, NATALIE!
Ah. Volksgenosse von Braun. Didn't expect this fellow Nazi in this video.
Hello Natalie, all your videos are great but I think in this you forget to go deeper into racism, you mention these guys are not white, but tha was all.
New superfan acquired.
Well, that's it then.  I'm off to fuck the ocean.
Your lighting is so fun to look at, bajskdldkdkfkfk i can’t look away
6:37 sorry but you're wrong here, throughout the entire animal kingdom there are physical aspects preferred by members of that same species. it's not some shitty nazi pseudodarwinian train of thought.
Not gonna lie, that cock-carousel sounds pretty fun!
I think your transition is going very well, and I don't give about being polite
spite the topic: I really love your video, lol
The beard on the ultra-masculine baker looks fake...  Personally, I'm glad those "men" are going their own way. They're doing women a favor by deciding to leave us alone. I realize that most of them are mentally ill, but it's hard to feel sorry for them. What I'd like to say to them is this: Please do the world a favor and stay celibate. Heaven forbid that you reproduce...
Ngl, had no idea you were trans. Love it.
IMHO a lot of this "toxic masculinity" behavior comes from too much porn. The things a porn actress says and does have little to do with what a living, breathing woman wants. 1. Being referred to as meat, as a body part, as a sex object, etc. turns women off. 2. Women are more attracted to/tolerant of guys that are confident (not arrogant or aggressive), friendly and funny than distantly respectful, interested in a guy who likes his hair/his face/his body/his "technique" and works on them. That's why some rather unpleasant looking (to me-as a guy) guys that dress nice, have clean hair and smell good are attractive because they are full of friendly small talk and be approachable to girls. 3. Being sexually attractive doesn't mean looking like a Greek god and having a 10 incher. It's not about introverts or bold or pretend. It's about considering what you have and practicing confidence. If you're a quiet guy interested in computer games there are plenty of girls with similar interests. Lose the nervous attitude, any errors you make are probably nothing she hasn't seen seen before. If you can laugh at life's little moments she will relax. If you freak out over spilling a drink or nervous gas she will get very nervous.  4. Don't press for intimacy. Meet her in public a couple times. Be a gentleman, treat her like a lady (but don't be distant or uninterested, you're just letting her choose when to raise the heat). Aaaand, always remember first time sex is always awkward. You should be figuring out when and how she likes to be touched. And take your time before the "main event" begins. Foreplay is key. Hindplay really ain't so bad either. Cuddling is good. 5. Another thing I have noticed, whether she is just tired, does not feel well, or is having cramps at that fantastic time of the month, don't push, and don't act all pouty. Soon she will feel better and be her old, horny self. Especially if you did her favors (like cooking or running to the store) she can find some very creative ways to express her gratitude. Sometimes when I rub her tired and sore feet it doesn't lead to anything right then, but tomorrow...😍 6. I'm not kidding about letting her make the choices. Bluntly: you're gonna get off anyway, so let her be comfortable. With all the worries women have about STDs and pregnancy and all that letting her set the pace is good for her mood. And the foreplay and hindplay is very important. I try to get her off before I even "go downstairs", then afterwards I kiss and rub and try to get her off again. They remember that. I like to turn the one I love into a grinning puddle, then get us drinks and munchies. Women are so lucky they can have multiple orgasms, where it takes my little man a while to be ready for round two.
downloading tinder, moving to baltimore
wait a minute... "when I was your age in 1975"... that went over my head for WAY too long lol.
я искал sci-one-а зашел сюда,и пока не понял материал,хотя тут есть субтитры,и жто замечательно,какой то неожиданно интересный материал по ходу объясняют,посмотреть надо. ..и все же кто то подскажите мне о чем оно?
Just to clarify, before I begin, I'm a feminist and don't blame women, my genes, or anyone else except myself and my actions for my situations.  Should I be worried if I legit make posts about how hopeless my dating life feels, mock advice (albeit half-assed advice, but with a few good points) given to me, and actually have fears of being alone forever? I also loath myself, both mentally and physically. I constantly feel worse about my intellect as the days go by, even if I figure something out on my own or display intelligent acts, the parts of my life where I fuck up stand out the most and really feel like a giant rock in the front of my head, making me feel as if I'm getting dumber with time.  Physically, I hate being in pictures. I used to just avoid looking at pictures I'm in, but now I hate it. Not because I don't like the idea of a camera facing me, or attention, but because I don't like the idea that my frozen face can be seen and looked at for a long time by myself. I can't look at my face in the mirror unless it's me fixing my hair or looking at something specific, but if I look at a picture of me or in the mirror, I just feel angry and sad, I just hate my face. I'm also very insecure about my friendships.  For a long time, I feel like I'm able to sense someone's feelings about me (not like superpowers, that's total BS, but kinda have like an empathetic intuition, like I notice when someone's attitude towards me changes because of their slightest behavioral change my subconscious fixates on. And every time I've predicted someone started to fall out with me, it happened). It's weird and I hate it, and I hate explaining it to people because they think I'm saying I believe I have superpowers or something when I don't, that's stupid. So because of this in highly insecure and doubtful about every interaction with someone. I try to talk to someone new and it feels like they can't stand me. If I'm talking to a friend, it feels like they're impatient with me. I hate blaming other people, especially since that's an excuse many people use to divert blame from themselves.  And then there's the last part of me that worries: the self-doubt. Every time I try to make someone happy, there's a part of me that believes I only did that action to trick that person into being my friend, or if I'm telling someone about my problems, a part of me pressures me that "I'm looking for attention" and this is only reinforced when I react positively to being helped or being comforted as a result or discussing my issues. I hate myself every time afterwards, because even if my issues were real, that self-doubt part of me tells me I'm only looking for attention. This has become very prevalent recently, because it's gotten worse. All these aspects I've just described happen wayyy more frequently now. I'm not counting the panic attacks or bouts of depression because part of me keeps telling me I'm faking those for attention or for sympathy. And that leads me to hate sympathy. I ignore people who want to help me out of anger towards myself for receiving sympathy on something that half of me believes is a lie and the other half a truth. I was accused of harassment earlier this year, and now I'm legit believing I'm a fake Feminist because I just wouldn't stop saying nice things to someone. They weren't perverted or anything, just a ton, a ton, of compliments and affectionate sentences and I hate myself for saying those things because I never even asked if she wanted to be complimented or if she wanted to be told those things. So that part of me that doubts my own legitimacy is reveling in it and that I am a fake, a fake at everything I say I stood for because I made a horrible mistake, and that I'm unforgivable completely.  I really don't want to be an incel and I don't want to look like one because I can't even stand myself now. Should I be worried or is this normal?
This isn't saying much all things considered but that beard doesn't do Roosh any favors.
I love the way you talk about the sea.
People take one look at me and go, “AHH, help run, a big, stupid ugly monster!” They judge me before they even know me, that’s why I’m better off alone
What I want to understand is.... why are you holding your wine glass like that when it has a stem? 😦
Just so you know--I'm not trans, and I honestly could not tell you were trans.
YOU ARE A GORGEOUS GODDESS!
Leave your bones alone. They're beautiful.
Where's the argument at?
Often, the difference between an incel and a femboy is a bit of self confidence ~❤
Ok I'm gonna say it, the ending was weirdly soothing.
Ok the start of this was hard to listen to, I gotta go to confession now. Still I think catholics will agree with this message. We just disagree on the solutions (insert traditionalism here)
It's not insignificant that dudebros who can't see past the next fucking football game generally don't seem to have a problem meeting women. It's all about social norms. It's 'normal' for people to shell out billions of dollars every year to watch grown men play games. Think about that.
One of the byproducts of porn. Wow.
all These goddam waterphiles nowadays...
Honestly it's bizarre that incels complain about women dating attractive men seeing as on average men tend to date women who are more attractive than themselves. In general men care more about visuals than women do (I feel like women are more about actions than how u look tbh) it's just strange
That guy at the beginning watched too much hentai.
you got a few genuine chuckles out of me at some parts, the subject matter aside, you delivered the whole video with alot of cutting sarcasm and i fucking love it. Good job :D
I love you.
I hate when I’m reminded that I have bones
I’d wait til the 3rd date just to sniff your panties.
Well, thank you skull-people... I'm effectively not a woman... I mean I was born a woman and am a trans boy, but apparently not even that because I have a huge head. :'D I must be a monster to them.... I mean, it's not like I'm 1/6th from a Mexican indigenous tribe and they tend to have bigger heads and broader shoulders, right? No, it has nothing to do with that. And my big ass head will help while transitioning even though nobody takes me seriously that I'm trans because I'm really really feminine. XD  I really LOVED your video! <3 ^_^ I laughed so hard, and you are so well-mannered while pointing out other people's stupidity, I hope I'll be like you once day, and I mean it!
As a good old-fashioned sexist, these people scare the shit out of me. If a woman doesn't want you, you back off and cut you losses, she's not interested. Act proper, be courteous and never expect sex. Give something to the relationship, the physical qualities actually don't matter all that much if you're fun to be with and smart enough to recognize that fact. Ugly people have a hard time on both sides of gender. Deal with it.
22:22 asmr
Another incel thing as of late is the idea that if you didn't start dating in your early teens, you shouldn't even bother starting because you've been "stunted." This mindset keeps them from bothering to change as well, "I'm already ruined, why bother trying?"
I never knew the hun thing... I've been calling people that and now I'm worried my transgender and non-binary friends might be hurt by it. Crap...
I find this video incredibly informative. There was a short time in my young life I would have been considered an incel, but I didn't have the constant regurgitation of this idea to fuel it. This is... Terrifying to think I might have surpressed my sexuality and identity because I felt entitled or self hating if I was born a bit closer to now.
The difference between a nerd and an alpha is that you choose fuck with the alpha
*30 Seconds In* "Geezus, what the FUCK did I click on? What IS going ON right now?! I came here to learn more about a word being bandied around on Reddit, not listen to porn!"   I've been getting accused of being an Incel lately, and never in good taste or humor, because I've casually mentioned being autistic, introverted, and lacking any desire to flirt with women or pursue unnecessary relationships with people. Unless I *have* to.  *8 Minutes and 26 Seconds In* *The Answer:* Nope. I'm apparently *NOT* an Incel, because being Solitary is *NOT* the same thing as being sexually frustrated, and learning about these people is making me lose what few IQ points I seem to have.
omg. i just love you
"Chad Falatic" is in the patrons.  Knew it.
Roosh V is super fucking rapey, even the far right hate him. Also 4chan has gone to shit, this r9k, incel shit has even flooded over to my home board /fit/ which has always been about bodybuilding, powerlifting, sports, and motivating each other to make it and get the best body that your genetics allow you to get. In recent years it has turned more into ''LMAO if you're not at LEAST 6 foot your not gonna make it'' or ''if you have wide hips then there's literally not point in lifting'' and ''why lift when it's all about the FACE'' and a lot of bullying, a lot of insecurity, and a lot of negativity. Zyzz is rolling in his grave, I am never coming back to that place. Also Rock n roll isn't dead how dare you.
More of this. This is *fascinating.* I know nothing about these online subcultures but they.are.fascinating! You sound like you're in a better reasonable place but can tell those of us who have to Google every other word you say ("stan," "sock puppet") what is going on here.
You did a great job of covering the incel community and its various factions.  And you did so without shaming.  Nice work.  Personally, I think you're gorgeous right now.  I didn't notice anything about your brow, and after you first mentioned it, I looked but didn't see it.  But, so what if I did.  I have a weak chin!  For your demographic knowledge, I'm a straight, white woman who's turning 60 this week.  You're relevant beyond the trans community...not that there's anything wrong with that.  ;-)
I don't know if which of my emotional reactions are now. Sad?  Pityful?  Spooked?  Frightened?  Annoyed? All of the above?
You are a gorgeous goddess
I see how a sense of hopelessness could lead men to self-harm or to harm others. Can that sense of hopelessness be changed? You aren't going to change their views on women if you fit their assumptions on how women act, and if you're hostile towards them they're going to be hostile in return. A good first step is to try to focus their hatred. Have them hate specific traits, attitudes, or behaviours that they believe women have, instead of hating femoids in general. Then you demonstrate that you, personally, do not have those traits, attitudes, or behaviours. They may now be willing to listen to you, and you might be able to encourage them or give them hope.
Until you said something I would have never guessed you were once male, you’ve transitioned so well and are sO goregus
Could not handle the "cuckboy" graphic. DYING FROM LAUGHTER
Yes "we all love touching bones"
That was simultaneously hilarious and insightful, so bravo.  Also, given that this is the first time I’ve watched any of your videos... I was genuinely surprised when you mentioned being trans ¯\_(ツ)_/¯
I asked my dog what the secret to happiness is and she put her paw in my hand.  So that answers that.  ;-)
I accept your apology for once being a man and am willing to move on. <3
Huge heads? That is funny. I'm guessing none of these men are in Korea. Having a normal sized head is enough to get me loads of weird comments here :P
Entitled bellends
everyone needs to spend less time on the internet
18:47 wait so what's the problematic thing that i needed to notice
"massive man noggin"
Why is this transvestite making  a video about incels? Incels are straight and would not want him anyway..
The red pill has nothing to do with women. Taking The red pill is opening up to the hidden Jewish agenda
The red pill has nothing to do with inceldom, red pill is for republicans and alt right, BLACK PILL is the what incels use. If you’re gonna trash incels, do it right.
"At least these dicks care enough about my pussy to be an asshole about my dick!". Fucking dead 😂🤣😂🤣💀💀💀💀
99% sure lack of father figure.
I wonder if Roosh has seen this video
I REFUSE to believe that this fucking dude is not an incel himself. he's fucking HIDEOUS, AND wears dresses... and probably doesn't even have a fucking dick anymore.
28:00 absolute masochism. I don’t have gender dysphoria, but I have had body dysmorphia since I was ten. There are so many problems with those two statements I just made regarding the pathologising of human pain and stigma in relation to some sort of esoteric societal norm.  I’m not comparing the two AT ALL - but yes this behavior of reading some of the most hateful content towards you personally I s self harm. Sure I’ve learnt a lot about why hate cults exist... but I don’t know whether knowing their rhetoric inside and out has been particularly helpful to me - unless I was a journalist or activist. Since being abused and hurt badly I’ve spent hours trying to understand people who hate women for example... in order to understand what triggered that hate. It’s really sick and draining. I just love all your videos contrapoints. If I hadn’t said that in pretty much every comment section under one of your videos. Some of the best works of art I’ve seen ever. You know how to empathise but manage to balance that with a satirical approach to the dark sides of life and people who enjoy harming others. It’s taken me forever to realise that most people are good but the small few who are powerful narcissists and many of whom are psychopaths are incredibly good at whipping up fear and collectively punching down- mainly to those who are suffering the most, regardless of their innate talent and beauty. Your channel is honestly a breath of fresh air when it comes to understanding the complexity not only of internet culture but also the many bad actors in politics and a philosophical analysis of how this influences the rise of what appears to be prolific fascistic thought across the west.
Gosh this was done relatively elegantly. So eloquent in speaking about such a peculiar matter.
I put "fragile masculinity" in the same category as "emotional chick on her period"; they're easy ways to explain the other gender's actions and put them below you.
This is coming late and isn't related to the theme of the video, although i might have been an incel at one time during my teens but thank god i didn't discover 4chan at that time, but mainly i want to thank you for the part about digital self-harm. Really i had times where i just spent all the day in the internet obsessing over some topic i didn't agree or felt guilty about. And even when i though of leave it for the moment (so i could make my responsabilities, social interactions or just simply relax) i always though that i was just making excuses because i can't deal with the facts and kept reading. After that then, i felt anxious and bad for wasting a day or two. And not to say that moments where entirely wasteful (for example: not to say that everyone goes through that, but that was part of my change of mind about some parts of feminism), but the acumulation of those experiences really does not feel good at all. And thats because it still make me think that i'm not capable of accepting change and that i just wasted my time in trivial things.  So, at that part where you say that it's not always about always seeking true or what others think, but about your own mental health felt comforting. I know that my case is not harsh compare to others, but i really stop feeling alone by what you said and that you mention you pass through that too. BTW your channel is and always will be awesome
because of improvements to porn and the fact women have jobs, relationships and family based child rearing will continue to tank for educated adults as there is no impetus for those things. This is all a symptom of that. When people are different, but get something out of eachother, they develop respect, when people are different and trade no resources, then they develop distrust.
If you're into the inherent eroticism of the sea, I would highly recommend reading The Morgesons by Elizabeth Stoddard.
Your video is perfect
Stumbled on this through the youtube recs, am now 15? videos in and have developed the most epic crush in the history of crushes. The balance between the theatricality and dry humor is just /kisses fingers like an Italian chef/ beautiful.
Girl your make up is STUNNING
As someone who actually is a straight male, in his late 20s and a virgin, I have to wonder why I've never gone down this path and jumped to hating/blaming women for my lack of relationship experience. Like why have I been able to recognise my own faults regarding my issues but others jump the shark onto blaming an entire gender of society. Because I can relate to a lot of those "Black Pill" fears about thinking no one will like you, that you're doomed to be alone, etc. It might be because I also have issues getting along with other men in any serious or deep way, but it's interesting none the less. Though kind of scary someone like me could be in going off the deep end.  But I liked your video enough to admit something I have real anxiety about so good job on that one.
Nice video, but I can't excuse the intolerant blunder at the beginning. WHY DIDN'T YOU USE METRIC? HOW AM I SUPPOSED TO IMMERSE MYSELF IN THE MINDSET OF AN INCEL, IF I DON'T KNOW HOW MANY MILILITRES OF CUM HE (or she) MEANT.
S H E. I S. I N C R E D I B L E.
I like my small wrists...
Did not expect to leave this video with a sea fetish.
wow that ending ... ahhaha. tis true the sea is a harsh mistress, she never forgives or forgets. i sleep like a baby every time im out there.
I didn't know you were trans til you said it
coming from a linguistics context hearing how she said ’a priori’ is so weird because I’ve never heard it pronounced like that
Wow, just wow. Really informative. Thank you for doing the research and making this video. In the past I felt an alternating urge to try and talk these people out of the self loathing and troll them. Now I realize I should just stay the hell out of it. Some of these poor people are just sick and need help. Thanks for helping me recognize a bad impulse.
Sometimes my dog will chase a bird. He loves it and he *thinks* he wants to catch it but I’m pretty sure that if he did, he’d get a huge fright and wouldn’t know what to do with it. That’s like incels with women. Except my dog has a hell of lot more respect for women.
I skipped steps 6-8 on the catastrophising checklist.
today i learned i'd probably fuck the ocean
Please marry me
also, I'm pretty sure "the inherent eroticism of the sea" is the most true thing I've heard today, and I've been researching news sources for the last three hours
It's you
35 minutes of someone womansplaining inceldom.
"Baltimorian" "Divine city" I definitely noticed the problematic thing
Your voice is actually so calming omg
repulsive freak
So what you’re saying is the skeptic community is a bunch of incels
This is so good. Thank you.
sounding like a girl to me
First time viewer, and I know the topic is important, but... you should really do some ASMR on the side, there's some great stuff there XD  But overall, thank you for being awesome
There are 60.8 million married couples in the United States, or roughly 121.6 million married individuals. There are 74 million children under the age of 18. U.S population is roughly 328 million. Nearly half of the U.S adult population is married. The incel thesis can't be true just by numbers.
Do men really believe this shit!? Have some damn confidence in yourself. there's a girl out there that will say yes. Give a guy/girl enough alcohol and they'll bed you. If that's not for you, hire a damn prostitute. Its also funny how promiscuous alpha males are what they aspire to be. Yet they trash girls who do the same thing with chads... Pathetic hypocrites.
I love you and your way of reasoning. I'm a queer cisgendered woman who has spent a fair amount of time on incel boards after they started getting a lot of negative news coverage (mostly because a lot of the news articles I was reading linked directly to the websites and I wanted to understand why this was happening. I only read, I don't participate). Some parts of the message chats shocked me and frightened me. But there were also a fair number of posts about being isolated from human touch. It was the first time I've thought about what it would be like to live in a world divorced from even the most casual intimacy or human engagement. So many of us are taught that after a certain age we have to save all of our emotional and physical intimacy for our romantic relationships. I remember when I was a teenager feeling so close to my friends and family. But as I got older and some of my friends got married I found myself feeling more isolated. There is something really saddening about modern isolation where we can go for literally weeks on end without getting a genuine hug or seeing someone we love in person. So while I'm not advocating any violent actions or rhetoric espoused on these message boards, I think it was a courageous and truly authentic move for you to express critique AND empathy/mature understanding of how these patterns of violence emerge. I can't say how many times my community has saved me from going down a similarly dark path of self loathing. It's important that we don't make each other into (as you so helpfully mentioned) cartoons or caricatures of human beings. So we can actively say that femicide is evil and harmful, while also understanding the way we've reached this moment culturally. You're incredibly smart and talented.     "No one enters violence for the first time by committing it." -Danielle Sered
Thank you for processing this mess for me contra. Love your content, keep it up!
So I was asked a few weeks ago if I was an incel, and upon hearing the literal definition I agreed. That made me receive mockery for being a whiny sexist twat, which confused me a great deal, as I simply expected mockery of my social ineptitude. However, youtube recommended me this video upon going on a Shaun binge, and I see how these connections were made.
<3
They've drawn Becky with more natural body proportions, nicer fashion-sense/hair-style and a prettier face. She's like the epitome of what I like to see in a girl. (Unless she's in a pink spandex costume with huge heels, fake hair and her tits are showing, of course because THAT'S WHAT ALL MEN WANT! Oh and she fucks Chad...)  *edit. There's nothing wrong with liking the Stacy-character. You're okay. That's okay. Everybody's okay, okay!
It would be great if you make a mgtow video, good work btw
I think this video may have made me sexually attracted to the ocean...
That beginning story grosses me out.
Its weird that i recognize some of the named psycoligcal mechanisms in me. I am truly curious where this mindset of ''catastrophizing'' and ''psyco-self harming'' comes from. Is it a genetic predisposition? Or is is it that but worsened by cultural upbringing? Or just the culture in the family you grow up in?   Anyway maybe that isnt important. You raise a good point by bringing attention to this. Also the way to spot your own destructive thaugts is i think key to getting out of these destructive mechanisms.   I myself find it hard to shake the mental loop of self-loathing. It feels like constant self-sabotage. And like throwing the towel into the ring at the first site of difficulty. Although i have gotten rid of the worst of it by letting go of religious dogma i was told and took serious as a child i still find myself reverting to the worn down road of giving up on anything slightly hard to do. At least i recognize it now but to deal with it is hard when you havent got the experience build up to deal with set backs. But now that time has passed i can see progression from that mentally twisted young adult to at least a somewhat sane/competent person. It leads me to conclude that you just have to try to make it better for yourself and then slowly you'll see progression.  I have had this ''giving up early'' thing as far back as i can remember. It is frustrating to not know what caused it. But as i write this i realize its more important how to deal with it..
Ok I love you, but the virgin vs chad is just a meme that, if anything, makes fun of the whole alpha male dynamic
Te olvidaste de un gran detalle: el camino para volverse un artista del ligue es comprar la biblioteca completa del ligue de los grandes gurúes alfa del ligue que tambien financian y mantienen las paginas incels, mgtows y etc donde los hacen sentir miserables para que quieran ser como ellos y comprar sus mercancías.  Basicamente, una religión secular. Es decir, como una religión pero sin ni una de sus virtudes y con todos sus vicios.  Me encantó el canal, saludos trans desde Argentina :)
I just met your channel and have not watched much of your videos, but it seems to me that you are one of the most loveable person I have ever saw in the internet. Abraços!
I feel like you're telling us that noir will get us laid.
Great video, I like that you made the video explanatory :)  but you might wanna save some sperm for later
Honestly given the way Abigail the Terf feels about men she probably won't squeeze life out of her sacred passage either
En conclusión, los incels son retrasados depresivos con baja autoestima y superficiales los cuales carecieron de una figura materna durante su niñez.
Those two mannequin busts are harshly judging my lifestyle choices I can feel it
When you said "Hypermasculine baker" I imagined a room full of men in thongs kneading dough in suggestive ways... ... ... ... Does that kind of porn exist?
This Video was great to watch. Thank you for the insights. I never really know much more about the "incel community" than what I read in the news.   Here is my take on the matter:  I was a fat nerd in the 90s (pre-Internet age) and as you can imagine, I had a hard time getting dates. But somehow, after I changed my deodorant, my clothing style, and most important: my attitude, it wasn't that hard after all. Of course, guys who look better and are better in shape have it easier to make the first contact, but the attitude is what counts. Do you see yourself as a victim or not? Even back in my nerdy teenage years, I never blamed anyone for my misery of not getting laid.  By the way: I would have never guessed you are trans if you had not mentioned it. You look nothing like a man.
Chopin❤
Dammit, no wonder this came up on my feed again: pickup is something lonely people do to be less lonely, Neil Strauss wrote the book and discovered the inherent pitfalls.  Not all people are born with good graces, looks, or social pull, so we have to study dating like other people study geology.  Everyone is lonely, including the, "hot babes" of either sex.
Hey off topic question are you interested in Deleuze? Also this video is so fucking amazing, keep it up!! ❤❤
Getting laid all the time isnt as great as its made out to be anyway. You end up feeling a bit soulless
I think this is the funniest video I've ever seen, love how much effort you put into this lol
"Masochistic epistemology" really struck me. Everyone secretly wants their fears and doubts to be affirmed rather than their hopes, because hope means an uncertain future.
The hypergamy thing with women being just "redpill theory" is not correct. It's a real social sciences term and a suuuper awkward conversation to have with women. That's just one side of the coin. Look up "hypogamy".
I'm so glad this came up on my recommendations, this shit is funny and informative.
Okay just saying I just got here via philosophy tube and folding ideas and didn't doubt that you were a lady at all. ^^
Everytime I watch this my mind is blown
I agree with most of your arguments but the mass murderers part. Incels unfortunately exist in most countries but the only one they commit mass murders in is the the single first world country with a mass murder problem.
This was actually quite enlightening 🤔 I would generally be inclined to just dismiss people on forums such as these as human sewage but the truth is most of these people just get trapped in this dark, negative vortex and although they might start off with just certain self-loathing tendencies, they ultimately end up at the bottom of that spiral, embracing all the negativity, hatred and anger that these forums fuel. I don't know what the solution is but I think one important step might be to have spaces to help people feel more secure in themselves, instead of clawing each other down.
Femoids? I'm CRYING!
Gosh I love you Why am I just finding this channel!
So if all incels are mysoginists, does that mean that all shemales are suicidal maniacs?
In the past, white men tried to prove that black women were a "threat to white women and their sexuality" by examining the size of their clitoris. It's the same thing with the skull, as you explained, just finding a difference and attaching ideology to it.
😍 that was amazing
wow
This is your second video I see today, and I'm already sure you're one of the smartest and funniest woman i've ever see. Thank you for all the things you say on those videos.
While I appreciate your message, everything about your videography and writing gives off some air of condescension and snobbishness. The gaudy mood lighting, the immediate offense of people mentioned, and the implication of anything to the right of “men are perfectly fine within America’s system” is somehow sexist and mysoginistic. Men have problems with the system, women have problems with the system. A lot of the strife between MRAs and feminists is that men and women are systematically oppressed by the proposed solutions designed for the benefit of one party. Acting as if one side is completely in the right and the other is completely in the wrong is, inherently, bigoted. Political dynamics and the solution to problems that don’t create new ones isn’t my forté, but it certainly isn’t yours either.  Plus, you really don’t have to mention you’re trans. The inflection of your voice is evidence enough. Being, trans, I believe, shouldn’t ever be part of your identity. Your identity should be, for the most part, what you are on both the inside and outside. Society should always have a part in your identity, but making your social status part of your identity isn’t healthy to yourself and those around you. For example, if you’re gay, you would make your life revolve around “I’m gay and everyone should know”, it should just be a part of your life. You’re you, not trans or gay or bi or any of that. There shouldn’t be any benefit to being a man or a woman or LGBTQIAWXYZ++ or whatever it is now. There shouldn’t be a benefit to being “special”. There should be a benefit to only one thing: being you, being kind, being there when others need you. The world wants _you_, not what’s in your pants or what you look like or what you thinks society thinks you are. Just be you.
yo I heard you on chapo and I fucking LOVE your channel
you are briliant :)
“Si vis pacem, para bellum”  (If you want peace, prepare for war)
i an sorry was not cloud people was autism attack no cloud people am very sorry must stop talk now
i fucking stan your rhetoric. you are so smart.
I’ m a celibate gay man who all he wants is monogamous relationship and wonder why straight men blame feminism when it is just the old concept of life’s not fair.
How can i become normal? I don't want to be a virgin anymore.
Woah woah woah. I just watched a suggested video and was completely entranced, subscribed after two minutes AND hit that bell, and felt compelled to get a glass of wine?  WITCH ♥️♥️
Being a virgin (not by choice but invonluntarily) means that women, the guardians of sex in our society, the ones who decide who can have sex and who can't, the ones who decide which men will have the opportunity to perpetrate their genes, have considered you, since the beginning, as INFERIORS. Until that day of your life, there weren't a single woman who wanted to sleep with you. This situation is equivalent to a group of thousands of women who would look you in the eyes, and say : "We don't want men like you for the future of our species". Can you find an insult more powerful and cruel than that guys ? There is none :)  But I have still a good news for you incels of the world ! Women are willing to tolerate you existence ! As long as you don't touch them, don't speak to them or don't get too close to them. They don't all want you dead, rest assured, they just don't want to talk with you, to look at you or interact with you in anyway whatsoever. Never :)  Excuse-me ? You are a 4/10 man and you want to approach that 4/10 woman you know from college, from work or you have met in a party ? AAAAYYYAAA don't even try. Be aware that she has been banged by a 6.5/10 she have found on Tinder the other day, and that she has already another booty call planned for next week. Be aware that she will laugh at you face if you were to express any form of interest towards her. Why even bother considering a subman like you when she can fuck guys that have up to 3 points above her own grade, by the simple act of pushing a button ? :)  What ? You are kind, you say ? You are interesting, funny, you do some good studies..? Holy shit, who the fuck even cares ? Certainly not the 4/10. Nothing you can do will compensate the fact that you are a hideous genetic mess with seeds that aren't worthier than dog shit. Women are biologically programmed to let your genes die. Any single glance they address at you make them full of disgust. Your short size and your face features absolutely repugnant send a message to her primary instincts : "DO NOT FUCK WITH IN ANY GIVEN CIRCUMSTANCES". 99% of women would prefer be violently drilled by Chads who would destroy their brains and throw them like garbage right after, instead of share their life with a subhuman like you. If a girl would give even the most pitiable kiss on the cheeks, this would be certainly the happiest day of you pathetic existence. But then again, we all know this would never happen. Never :)   So yeah, keep playing video games, keep watching your animes, stay cooped in front of your series, because this is undoubtedly the closest situation from happiness you have the potential to reach. Sex, love, affectionate relationship, all of this isn't for you. Literally, you haven't any other solution than lie down and rot alone for the rest of you life, while God laugh by looking at the situation he put you in. And not a single woman on the planet will ever feel compassion for you. Never :)    Genes and circumstances of your birth determine the upper limit of the best life you can potentially live. Sex, love, and affectionate relationships aren't part of the fundamentals rights of an human being and there is some people (mostly men) who will live their whole live without knowing those things. Despite what the cucks normalfags who had their first relationship at 17 like everyone else will tell you in those comments, or all over the internet ; there is simply no hope for some people, who have been doomed to a miserable existence at the single moment they had been conceived.
Hahah cuckoldry
Your David attenborough is on point
Found you => love you  Brilliant vid oml
Thank you for the empathy and understanding! I'm a young happy guy, but in middle school I was miserable and envious. I had two friends--all of us social rejects, lacking relationships and friendships, "losers" so to speak--and we would often find ourselves bouncing ideas of each other that, had we been a few more degrees miserable and self-loathing and had gone to middle school 5ish years later, may have led to us being sucked into such toxic, inescapable communities and mindsets. We didn't have words like "Chad"--true to our time, we called them "swaggots" (all apologies due, what can I say, middle school isn't very PC) and couldn't understand how all these dumb, vapid guys seemed to pull all the girls, meanwhile being dicks to us at every opportunity. We have all as individuals since then pushed forward to having rewarding relationships/friendships, and pushed forward, fostering personal growth and constantly setting higher standards for ourselves as far as our social skills, reasoning, humanity, and fulfillment. Nowadays, progressivism (which I am almost entirely happy to be a part of) scorns the ability or willingness to empathize/sympathize with the racist, the sexist, the homophobe, the classist, hell even the seemingly normal, un-bigoted conservative. We (as the human race, not some political/social movement) need more people like you, who can exercise both reason AND compassion.
All the females came here to sulk and listen to this transgender abomination talk shit for 30 minutes. PATHETIC
Lmao I’ve never watched your videos before but this was on my recommended and after watching this ily 😂
A hon is when a trans looks like a man in a dress? Damn, now I'm a little offended at the waitress who called me hun.:P
My problem is I gave up. Now I'm I just don't care anymore. Sometimes I do, but most of the time it's like "meh.".
No one *deserves* love or sex. It has to be earned, and if you can't earn it, then you have to deal with not having any. Just be grateful that you live in the 21st century and don't have to hunt your food or risk your whole tribe being tortured and slaughtered by a competing tribe.
So...incels treat one another how SHITTY women treat one another?? Typical.
Cool madlib.
Given that you have been against men's rights advocates or activists in the past, I was cynical in the first opening minutes of this video. Given that in my nation, an honest addressing of men's issues and an awareness geared against extremism would solve a lot of it's issues, of course I would have that opinion. There are indeed a lot of homeless, and this winter cold may take several of them, if the apathy if the public doesn't kill them first. And those homeless are majority men, it is only in the past few years that more families and women have entered into that context, although they would still be 1st for converted hotels.   But I had a few laughs, and I appreciated the fact that you put effort into understanding the mentality of this Incel phenomenon, a mentality which I must admit is extremely pernicious, and its depths are something that I was not aware of, at least in regards to the slippery slope of the stages. The points about skulls were enlightening, as they were a fine example about pseudo-science, but it highlights another important factor. There must be something physical for them to have a hangup on, in order to perpetually take issue with their situation in life and refuse to change. It must be something tangible like a past experience, or something they're insecure about in physicality.  I'm still very much in opposition to social justice, and I have no qualms about rebuking feminism because they're gonna have to kill me to stop me, but I have enjoyed this video and I plan on tuning in again. If only to gleam what other insights you care to share about cognitive behaviours, and formulate something that's likely to soothe out extremist tendencies from either side.  P. S. I think that the biggest thing about Incels or any victimhood mentality or actual state of being, is that there is this belief internalised that the traumas one has experienced are not able to be communicated to other people, or that it will fall on deaf ears. Eroding the misconception of that concept will go far to help a lot of people, because you can heal if you treat it properly. And the sea eroticism was hilarious, much props for that.
This video made me check my wrist size. According to one source because in lazy, my wrist is over 2.5” small than the average male. And just below the standard women’s XS bracelet size
The kindness you show in this video is beautiful.
Exceptional. Contrapoints is my new favorite channel. Thank you. Really appreciate your work.
I watched first 15 minutes and now I'm writing this comment because i couldn't stand anymore of your talk. When you say "take a shower", "shut down pc" you are making me and other incels like me crazy. What you see on internet is just a small percentage of incels who show off themselves, maybe some of them might be living on his mother's basement, but most of incels dont. You don't see them, you can't see them. You are growing hatred against you and other evil female humanoid organisms like you. You are engaging avalanche,  sparking tons of dynamites (unknowingly or on purpose, i don't know)  I'm a 29 years old virgin incel. I'm a doctor, i have an MD. I started a 5 years education in cardiovascular surgery 2 years ago, so 3 years later i will be a cardiovascular surgeon. This is one of the most highest positions to reach for a non-rich born guy in my country. I live in a middle eastern country and more than 60% of people can't make ends meet here. Owning a 10 years old toyota is considered as pure luxury. Anyway i managed to buy myself a bmw, and going to buy my own house in 2 years. A decent bmw (Costs 500k currency) in my country is equal to a brand new bentley in usa or other rich european countries.  So i can say that i'm in 5% when it comes to wealth/salary.     My look is probably 5-6 out of 10 in usa, eu and those genetically superior slavs and russians. But i'm a solid 7 in my country. When i dress well it might be up to 8, but i mostly wear green uniform as i'm in hospital most of time.  I worked hard in my whole life to get at this point. Acceptable salary, a car, a house and respectful job. I entered med school when i was 18, haven't slept more than 4 hours per day since then. And still i don't sleep more than 2 hours except my off days which is 20 days for each year.  I wrote all of this just to inform you that i have never been a game or porn addict as you and all other humanoid organisms think. I worked my ass off to earn every damn thing i have today. still working as hell.  I'm not a weirdo also.  All my work friends like and respect me, i am very kind to everyone. Patients i cured appreciates and sometimes giving me presents. So when you ask people around me they probably say that how humble and kind i am. That is a simple disguise strategy.  Now lets talk about main subject. When it comes to fho (former women), it doesn't work. It's not money thing, not social awkwardness thing, not looks thing (I go for 3-4, max 5 girls. Actually in past i would never rate anybody from exterior, i would say personality and respect are permanent and more important, but now i opened my eyes)  It just doesn't work. And it is just because extremely obsessive hypergamous, discriminatory evil fho's like you. Of course that includes feminists too. Today's women are just into top of males, even top males can fail because fho has infinite options, other than fho can beat male, male has no right to hit back, fho divorces, takes all money and privileges, male works to death to make ends meet for rest of his life.  The incel mindset is not a one day or week thing, its accumulative, years of experiences.  You have no idea how many incels are out there, not hundreds, not even thousands, literally hundreds of thousands incels like me. We are just disguise. Even if you come across me and live/work with me for 10 years you would have zero doubt about me being incel, until i decide to reveal myself.  Be careful.
I think you are so pretty!
33:48 to 35:04 well that’s a strange fetish. Oh well. To each there own.
I just found your channel today and I’ve watched three videos.  You’re very informative.  Thanks.  I had to subscribe
woah, and these men seriously have the audacity to say that women victimize themselves? is this real life
The comment section on your videos are probably the most comfortable and civil places I've ever visited on the internet. Except on one nazi video that was complete hell fire below....
Also, RE the skull tapping at 22:32; when do we get a full on ContraPoints AMSR video?
My debate coach suggested your channel and I’m so glad he did 😍😍😍 you’re a queen
So like, remember chatrooms? Once upon a time I responded to a question about what kind of undies I was wearing to a *very thorough description* of my period grundies. It was a good time.
Mmmmph. So goood. Thank you!
when she said "don't worry lesbians i'm still attracted to women" QUEEN
Resumen: Las mujeres no tienen la culpa de nada ni van a cambiar jamás. La culpa es toda de los hombres que se autoengañan porque quieren. Y lo dice un tio que reniega de su sexo.
Great, now I want to bang the sea again. I just got through repressing these feelings. Thanks.
wow muito bom moça
I'm five minutes in and I think, contrary to your disclaimer, there's quite a bit of mocking. Do I not get the jokes? Should I keep watching? Does it get better? The other comments seem to think so.
Found a Brazilian YouTuber who identifies as an incel today😒🙄
Incels basically represent the bullshit of conservatism, in areas where actual discrimination barriers have been in place (capitalism) no redistributive efforts need to occur and they talk about “meritocracy” but the second they can’t fuck whichever girl they wish the state should come in and mandate they have a girlfriend.
this video is a masterpiece. i love your style and how real and informative your videos are. keep it up.
i was thinking to myself, wow she is a super smart woman than i realised she used to be a man and everything made sense to me again
Something that incels hate is womens ability to get laid - or as you said the "vocabulary" word "sexual marketvalue". Who does not hate people with power without responsibility? Incels make a lot of sense. Unfortunately there is nothing fair or sane about the real world, for better or worse.
This video has been in my recommended for months, and all this time I was like "Come on Youtube, I don't need  some Incel video too wacht". But today I learned to never distrust Youtube again, because at this point they know me better than  that I know myself.
kinda good , but hatred is hard thing to loose.
the inherent eroticism of the sea omg i'm dying
GOD DAMN OUTING HIMSELF AS A BAKER  FRAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAGILE MASCULINITY
The subject matter of this video engrusts me.  But a nice presentation. Kinda lost it at the 5:37.  Edit: jfc TTTT sounds like a nightmare.
I don't believe you.
i recoiled at first... *is that a man?* "Hey Google, is Contra Points a man?" "maybe..." "Well i guess ill watch the video to see whats up..." 20 minutes later i have laughed genuinely, multiple times, cause you my friend make some quality content. Sorry for being a dick at first, and Good luck with the transition
The first minute and twenty-five seconds of this made me wildly uncomfortable. >_>
Lady you are really into the ocean.       I mean, I get it.
I had no idea you were trans until you said so. So for what my two cents is worth I think you're passing pretty well.
I love your style
*if it's actually making you want to commit suicide save up for facial reconstruction surgery*
FUCK THE OCEAN MOM!
The intro is one of the most hilarious things I have ever seen.
Ok, found the channel by accident and I'm sold on that opening, it's the finest
phases of phrenology. awesome.
Alot of these beliefs find their basis in Online dating app data and user behavior. Mostly based in reality but usually extrapolated into weird beliefs.   Data does suggest that if you are not in the very top percentile, dating apps for men is a futile struggle. And it is better to turn to other options. Reality is behavior patterns on Tinder is quite different between both sexes.   And the 80/20 number does I feel come from studies such as the one linked below.  https://medium.com/@worstonlinedater/tinder-experiments-ii-guys-unless-you-are-really-hot-you-are-probably-better-off-not-wasting-your-2ddf370a6e9a
I knew an Incel once- we will call him Matt. Matt seemed to ONLY pursue women who were perfect 10's and often women who were already in a relationship. (For example, He got all butthurt when my friend Hannah wouldn't leave her boyfriend of 2 years for him). Matt was  an average looking guy- he could have easily gotten a girlfriend if he had realistic standards and wasn't so negative all the time about EVERYTHING (not just relationships). All he did was bitch- about girls, his roommates, his job, his salary, his family, his car, his friends, etc. etc. etc. Other than complaining, he made little to no conversation with people. He used to call or text me and then expect me to carry the entire conversation. I really tried to help him (as did many other people) but he just wanted to complain and do nothing to fix his problems. All advice fell on deaf ears. It was like talking to a wall.  Eventually, I got fed up with it and gave up. Matt's behavior- not his appearance- was 100% the cause of loneliness.
I’m surprised I watched this whole thing. I literally had no idea what an incel was before this video.
I'm so glad YouTube recommended this video.  Subscribed!
I don't get Incel line of logic. If girls only want you for your money, why would you marry them? And if you know girls only want your money, why the bloody hell would you be interested in them? It sounds like shooting yourself in the foot. Also, why the bloody hell would you want to be a "Chad"? Sure, they get women all the time, but guess what comes with banging multiple women. STDs! If a Chad bangs a girl a night,  that 365 girls a year. You sure none of them girls have an STD somewhere? Heck, I would be surprised if a Chad doesn't end a year with ten! What I'm saying is, sex is not a grand achievement. We make.... devices to simulate the sensations of it all the time. If you want to go after a women, make sure you actually like her for her personality. Beauty is a fluid thing like water. Personality is fluid too, but it is like liquid glue. Some things stick, others go away.
It is really strange being able to look back at my life and see that it probably wouldn't have taken much for me to move into the incel community when i was in highschool (was already skirting the 'nice guy' edge).
This is very good
You're so eloquent and have a fantastic sense of humor. I'm so glad that YT recommended you to me.
God I hate that I spend so much time around men I use incel slang without realizing it's incel slang. Incels are just losers that found an identity in their misogyny and victim mentality.
As a woman I would like guidance as to handle this stuff, how do we send out the opposing vibes and stay protected from this sick thinking?  I LOVE YOU. You are beautiful, God bless you.
But asexuals tho...?
this video literally made me lol. new subscriber, bell rung and liked.
I thought it was a trap, but fairly convincing.
this is amazing. I wish it had Spanish subtitles so my mom could understand it. btw, you are stunning.
You are my new fav trans, much love!
Oh, i like her.... him.... her. Yes, both.
20:50 genius
You are fucking funny
This video was just recommended to me & I'm so delighted I took a chance to watch this 35 mins long video. It's so wonderfully made, I love the visuals & how everything was explained and tied in together! You look amazing & I just want to hear you talk forever. This is such a good video!! 💕
I think I needed to hear someone else talk about how seeking out what hurts us is so goddamn harmful. Granted, my issue was constantly checking in on my abuser's twitter feeds. But I'm glad this video helped me realize that anyway.  Thanks
Finally someone said it. Elliot was so hot sexy twink. I would have sucked n fucked him. Totally
Jesus, I'm 28 and never had that much luck of women, but I always assumed this is a combination of 1) Most girls I like being "taken" 2) My own social ineptitude. Never have I thought to actually blame women for it.
This world of incels is.... worse than I imagined. Also, far more structured and detailed. Which is also worse.
This incredibly well put together
I'm really glad i found your channel. It feels refereshing. I was at some point incel myself, but i was too sensitive to think about someone like a animal or tool. Right now I know that my problem is being shy af and everyone who isn't fucking cunt that treats someone like tool deserves a love.
You look like Winona Ryder! Great video, very informative.
fuck you're gorgeous
"The inherent eroticism of the sea..."
i love u
Oh, i'm gay btw.  : )
He would kick your ass all day every day.  Would actually like to see that.
<3 Milo
First time viewer - great video, keep doing what you are doing!
HIGHkey turned on by the last part. I love you?
Any works cited I can use from your video?
Hey trumptards, she's talking about you.
7:06 That's called a Manlet. Never heard of heightcel
I remember when I was still on 4chan and lgbt first opened and it was bombarded by fascists to make sure it didn't become sjw or someshit, that site is just hilarious, that was also the last day I was ever on 4chan.
I've been getting the suggestion to watch this video for a while now and I never did, because who needs another superficial explanation of what incels are. I finally did after seeing you in one of Lindsay Ellis' videos. You're so insightful, funny and empathetic. You're also really gorgeous and exteriorize(not sure if right word) femininity more than I ever will as a cisgender woman. I'm glad you're doing better and are no longer seeking out negative reinforcement.
the Hebrides overture at the end makes me cry
you are divine how has it taken me this long to find you.
Wow. WOW. This was really good. ContraPoints is a genius.
this was a pretty wise video, even for a loki child like yourself
Bonestructure fuckin killed me
You really are gorgeous and I'm not a trans person who tries to comfort another trans person, I'm a homoromantic woman. Plus your personality is so cool, you're out of my league! I feel ugly and boring compared to you hehe. But I still like myself and I'm not an incel cause I'm asexual lol. I regret ever having sex 😜
all my attractive female friends have a male partner that's lower on the attractiveness scale so nope incels, you're skull is not the reason why women hate you lol
That was fucking intense! bravo, well done.
#NuttinOffNature
Just came across your channel, and was pleasantly surprised by the aesthetic. Beautifully done video, def subscribing :)
Wait wait wait..... I'm a pan man into femme people, who is definitely attracted to you.  You are a goddess
Natalie, you're so amazing and precious to this world!
This has to be one of the most condescending, misandric and all around hateful videos I have ever seen. If you want to see actual facts found in studies and not just misused ''big words''. Then check out TL:DR and his video on this topic.
Ultra Masculine Bread Scientist lmfao
you said in your video you were still shaving off bone cos you feel like parts of you still look like a man, so I felt  it might mean something if I say that this is my first time watching one of your videos, and I was surprised when you said you were trans! you're such a beautiful woman and your voice is so soothing, I love you so much!
you and this whole video are beautiful, I love your attention to detail on both the topic and aesthetic!
I thought I was the only one who viewed attraction to me as an attractive quality. Not because I'm a goddess and deserve attention, but because someone cares about me and is attracted to who I am, quirks and all. 💓💓💓
I guess I can see your point about the radio silence.   However, Im a big girl and have a lot of people *out of my league* who hit me up just for a ride. Thats pretty degrading and emotionally stressful.   All I am generally good for is a low key "dont tell anyone, I really like you but my friends cant find out" hookup relationships.  Id rather be friend zoned with people I can hang out with and enjoy their company instead of a moped.  Its hard to explain to someone that *as a woman* Id rather be incel than used.
SO WELL SPOKEN SO INTELLEGENT AND SO BEAUTIFUL CAN WE GO TO IKEA AND PURCHASE A DELICIOUS BEDFRAME TOGETHER
I like rainstorms, but not that much.
i absolutely love the use of lighting and editing in this video. the cinematography nerd in me went wild.
I will say something, while I agree with much of this video, there's this basic assessment that all females will get messages and harassment like this. Now... I'm ftm trans. But I'm also thick set and fat. For me, transitioning hasn't been from sexy lamp to human being... It's been from lamp to human being. I have a lot of empathy (and frustration) for incel stuff because I know what that radio silence feels like (on top of the pressure of, literally all my female friends talking about how they are flooded and feeling fucked up because something is that fundamentally wrong with me). I still don't get messages on these kinds of sites. I don't want to derail, just point out to folks in the comment section that there's more than two kinds of people involved in this (like in anything). I am so ugly I've never been catcalled in my life.  But I'm also in a poly relationship three-way and friends with benefits with half of my friends because we trust each other, are trustworthy with each other, vulnerable with each other and share passion with each other. The gender mix is. Hilariously diverse. The physical "score" is even more hilariously diverse. Sometimes I wish these folks would talk to me because maybe it would help to see that these paradigms and rules aren't absolute. Sometimes a worse part of me just kind of wants to see how they would explain this.
Maybe trans women who are having trouble in love could rescue an incel. Like pizza and eggman!
Ok what was the point of this video? I don't agree with Incels but you didn't debunk the red pill at all. I think they are toxic to their own mental health and need more hobbies then obssesing over sex But that doesn't mean that they aren't wrong, sure somethings may be a little bit of an exageration, but the underlying red pill ideology has veracity. Looks, money, status is a dealbreaker for most women. Just because you spent thousands of dollars transitioning and live life on easy mode now that you pass as a women, doesn't mean they aren't suffering at all. Also not all of them are mysognistic and violent, /r/inceltears people aren't like that. What they need is sympathy and therapy NOT ridicule. Their number one problem isn't their inability to connect with just women, but other humans as a whole, most of them have seriously low social IQ and don't have many friends to begin with.
I thought I knew alot about incels, but that was just my Chad Mind playing tricks on me, I do understand how Catastrophizing works though, and can see how this could be self-destructive, nothing is scarier than romantizising murderous revenge against those you believe to live more fullfilled than you, prophetizing your own worst self into being, we can't just laugh this away unfortunately, some of these poor souls are ticking time bombs.......
4:44 - I'm an incel but Id much rather have the girl on the left, "The Becky" instead of "The Stacy". She looks so much better and more intelligent compared to they Stacy stripper look.
22:21
More incels should go trans, instead of bitching about not getting coochie, they can BE COOCHIE
I've become newly addicted to your content. Your filming setup, accessories, outfits, use of color, and, of course, your hilarity make topics like incels so much easier to stomach for me. And I normally try to avoid commenting so overtly on a woman's appearance, even if it's positive, but oh my! You're stunning. Sometimes I just gotta get my lesbian on.
I didnt know what the fuck an "incel" was some time ago.  However, what I understand they are ungifted, utalented, daft and brainless degenerates in denial who are so short sighted that they all deserve their sealed fates.  Being so greedy and feeling entitled for something that is not even your own thing yet and only viewing life as if sex is what their peimary focus in life should be.  They dont deserve anything else than a fucking bullet to their heads.  They miss the whole point of even existing in the first place.  The only reason you exists is so that you can make sure your blood lives on.  Every person today is the result of thousands of thousands of years of extending the blood line of oneself.  You share the same blood with your far past away decendants.  The natural and only logical and moral thing is to WANT to ensure the survival of your blood.  This, yes, involves sexual activities, however, this is Only a tool to help motivate us so that there is an instant pleassure combined with the long sought pleassure of extending your bloodline and raising your children, proudly knowing they are YOU in a different body and also the creation of you.  All of the Pride and joy that goes in to this, these degenerate incels all fail to see these very obvious facts.  And since they fail to see it, they are fucking brainless and deserve to die.  Are you stupid enough to Think women are all evil and at the same time think so highly of yourself that you seriously believe they are rejecting you because you are special?   No Its because this attitude is extremely unattractive to women. A woman knows that sex is not the whole point of life either. Women are less sexual driven creatures than men aswell, so it goes even further than what I said.  However i do know that they still love sex but only if it is for the reason of love and not just blank sex (well some do and they are whores but those are besides the point rn)  An honourable man however can hold his natural wild beast contained and calm within him and think that blank sex means nothing compared to sex over love and that blank sex with any willing slut is the quintessence of degeneracy.  The kind where you create children is the ideal sex and it should always be the goal.  All of this is quite easy to understand after you do some thinking.  To conclude the story: incels are unworthy of life since they are activeley taking part in degenerate behaviour, just like anyone is who does that kind of low life thing.
This was absolutely fantastic. Best 35 minutes of my day.
Once I'd got over my prejudice i.e. your appearance and voice, these are great videos!
imagine being so fucked up that j peterson is actually a good influence on the short term...
If I move on from hermit, Marxist troll to incel, please... kill me. Bash my brains in.
Never had this problem so cant relate...but I do understand. How about these dudes work on their own self acceptance and self confidence and learn how to actually conversate with the opposite sex. Yeah you're going to have to do more work than a Brad Pitt but most women are truly attracted more to self confidence and personality than looks.
You have a unique perspective on how men can be, having been one.  I'm curious if people have been sexist toward you, now that you know what it's like being female.  Do people treat you like you are some dumb woman? or "mansplain" or are you having fewer job opportunities?
hilarious
First, you are gorgeous, and second, I didn’t even think of you being trans until you stated it. You are amazing and I hope your transition goes well! <3
This is awesome insight and you are so pretty and smart!  I'm a straight female but haven't dated in over 10 years, not because of how I look, but b/c of isolation due to illness and it SUCKS!  However, I am curious how men treat trans women especially if they didn't want to be attracted to a trans women.  I know some men get angry regarding trans women b/c they feel tricked or that being with a trans women makes them think they are somehow gay. I know trans people are often bullied and abused, not to mention their inner voice that may also be self-damaging,  and I'm happy to see that changes are being made with kids being taught to accept all people, to admire differences and that we are all just people with the same needs.  I think people mostly want to just be held and feel close to someone.  I know I do.
I also think incels are a product of wages not keeping up over the past 40 years.  HALF the nation is low income and working 2-3 jobs for low wages. We would ALL be happier if pay had kept up with productivity.  Hell, if someone handed me $10k, I get dental work done and other health care.  I'd be able to toss whatever into a grocery cart like I could when I had a career.
Wow. These guys have been watching too much TV and porn.
"Massive man noggin"
"chadsplaining" and "Change" This is my take away from this video. This and the asmr sea porn
Finally clicked on this video after having it recommended to me for daaays. I'm in love now. You're brilliant!
As a cis, lesbian, fellow Baltimorean, the TTTT "hon" bit broke my little heart in about ten different ways...😔 **big hugs**
This slippery slope of despair happened to me a few years ago and I'm still recovering. But for me it was conspiracies/conspiracy theories. It started out innocently enough. A little 9/11 here, a little fake moon landing there. But quickly became darker and darker to the point a genuinely believed that the world was irredeemably broken and that it would soon come to an end. This led me to basically "lay down and rot" for the better part of 3 years. while I was in it, i felt that same smug satisfaction you described. Hearing painful truths that vindicated my deepest anxieties was hard, but strangely felt rewarding, even as it was noticeable chipping away at my mental health.
Excellent take on this. I enjoyed this one a lot!
I'm so glad I found this channel 😂😂
Thank you for telling me about the "hun" thing, I call people by pet names fairly often, and I'll try to keep a mental note note to use hun as one I use too often.
Secret Cthulu sea-worship confirmed. It will rise from R'lyeh soon sister.
pls do a video about mgtow
The sea scares me o.o Also you've got a sub. I like your style.
I’m not part of the destructive nature of the incel community but god damn I can’t stop reading up on people just like me. The stresses of military life and incel conformity just put me really far down in the darkness, shits scary bro
Incels should be educated by MGTOW, who’s just incels but in a positive way. The internet created monsters like incels, feminists extremists, anti-fa and the likes who decided to dwelt on the negative instead of being positive, accepting their own shortfall and work hard.
Hey there, I just found your channel after someone on Reddit posted your global warming video. This video was quite the roller coaster. Forgive me for being crude, but you're smart, make me laugh and you're totes hot. 10/10 as they say. I'll checking out some of your other topics :D
I absolutely love you! Thank you so much for all the incredible effort and style that you put into your content
What is the piece playing at 17:00? Beautiful! Is it Chopin? I would love to know. :)
You are a gorgeous goddess.
even though youre a degenerate tranny this video was still refreshing and truthful. btw id like to say i would never leave my normie beta husband because i would love him because its an honor to be proposed to in the first place
It is very easy to pick on InCels even though Wynn handles it respectfully. She misses a few points though.: The biggest problem  (or cause) of InCels is video game addiction. Incels are not a  bigger or more lethal problem than the female equivalent:' Fat Acceptance 'that kills Millions every year .
Women: “Why do incels kill so many people?”  Women: Murder millions of babies a year
Shes making fun of them but she cant refute any of it, and shell still fuck a different chad every weekend
The ridiculous thing is that INCELS seem to think that attractiveness is only physical, Ive seen girls who I thought were attractive and after having a conversation with them lost all attraction for them because of the lack of chemistry, and Ive talked to girls who I thought were average and found them very attractive because of how much we had in common. Now I there is no ego boosting in what I am about to say but I know im an attractive guy (probs about an 8), Ive had a few girls come to me but I have has sex ONCE in my life... on the contrary I know people who are not particularly attractive who go to clubs and pull almost every night.
jeeez I was with u till u called Jordan a sexist old man
I had pvssy since I was 10!
I have heard many friends talk of how terrifying "incels" are I honestly didn't realize how close to home a lot of these values in their rhetoric fall. This video is informative and reassuring to my own sexual frustrations.  I'm relieved that I was not abandoned with my feelings in a way that allowed me to be consumed with negativity to a point of malignance. I'm not sure how to disarm those who have fallen into what seems like a black hole, but I am thankful for the work that you and others have done to shine light in this dark place of humanity. Amidst all of this hate being reported and fostered, I am inspired to view the world and humans as beautiful, to forgive and then dismiss my own sentiments of naivete rooted in insecurity, and to know myself by way of living simply and continually imagining my privilege.
https://m.youtube.com/watch?v=cuMDNHpiy6Q My take on incels
It iw hilarious tho how its been proven that amount of.penetration does not effect the vagina at all. It is only in mutilation or severe trauma that it does. And even in trauma, the vagina is a self healing, self cleaning organ with its own ecosphere or biosphere. Its akso been proven that not every woman has a hymen and not every woman bleeds when losing virginity. And also that a medical.examination can not tell for certain if a.woman is a virgin or.not, an autopsy of a known prostitute was done and they were shocked to.find she had an intact hymen. Thats because for women that do have a hymen, it doesnt mean anything. It can be stretched, it can be broken, or it can be intact their entire.life despite.any sexual activity. So much men and women acrually dont know.
What woman begs for you to cum inside her? Its not like it feels good or something. And theure certainly exagerrating bwcause lets get real,    most sexuao exowriences concerning women, dont happen like that. Most of the.time, your oh so.glorious.3.incher doesnt donthe job right or make her in absolute.ecstasy the entire timw, it eithet doesnt at all, or takes quite some time, which.a lot of.men cant even last long enough to reach.
Praise the salty mother!  Also making your own bread is fun when it goes right 👍
Wow you rule! Really enjoying this content 🐞
I was just convinced by a transgender youtuber to become sexually attracted to the sea.  Subscribed.
This showed up on my feed and I’m glad it did. This was really interesting and in depth! Not what I was expecting at all.   ((Also, re your voice as you mentioned later; I think your voice is relaxing and I could listen to you read audio books or narrate movies all day))
Thought this might be a open minded look into a vast group of people of different ages, ethnicity and backgrounds. And at 3:21 the demonizing is already at 110% So all I can say is go fuck yourself you disingenuous bastard.
come on..you dont have to be an incell to know who Chad and Stacy    are. edit after watching more you give the incells credit with all chan culture. why?
When youtube recommended this to me, I didn't necessarily want to click on it because I didn't want to just think about negative things, but I definitely learned a lot. I had no idea the incel community encouraged hopelessness in each other or the idea that no one would get a date ever. Like you said, they don't want our pity but that really does make me sad.   I have depression/anxiety and a lot of my friends do, so we all try to lift each other up and like... mom each other, encourage each other to clean our rooms and not put off our homework, etc. There's an account on twitter called Pleasant Subtweets, the handle is @/TheyAreAboutYou, that posts things like "Don't put other people first all the time - you need to put yourself first sometimes, too." "It is okay to be who and what you are." etc, simple feel-good things and I like to RT them. It's not going to cure anyone's mental illness, but it can help a lot to be told by the people around you that they care about you. Especially when depression/anxiety can limit how often you feel up to seeing people face-to-face, those reminders can help someone get back up after a breakdown.  And like, I don't want to sympathize too much with incels but I do think that everyone who isn't a serial killer deserves to have nice friends who lift you up, not anons on 4chan who put you down. You don't need to look perfect or have the best personality to be loved by both romantic partners and friends.   That's about all I really have to say besides "Mmm hate it" for the other kinds of behaviors. I just don't think anyone deserves to feel hopeless. (Also, you're gorgeous and I Love your style, I can't wait to check out more of your videos)
I would also like to draw comparison to the Thinspo and ED communities. We similarly have extremely dysmorphic   views of our body, and go to great lengths to change ourselves. But we also know that we will never be happy with how we look, that we will always be undesirable and deformed. Incels need to realize women have the  fears they do. We just express it through self harm and eating disorders, instead of misogyny and violence, and LDAR.
you are hilarious, witty and intelligent. So glad i discovered a different voice of sanity. great lighting, editing and choice of topics.
Yes, they are cutting themselves because it feels true or because reasons. It's another desperate pursuit of "answers".
....This group of people closely reminds me of the Anamia groups.
I was an incel, for about three years. I would post my pictures on r/braincels, and get awful messages I hated women, I was, sexist I called every other guy in my class a chad  I was edgy, and made some pretty fucked up "jokes" but, something changed in me, something, bright. took the black pill, almost killed myself. lets call it, "the white pill moment" I puffed out my chest I changed myself for the better I took a shower, got into fashion took the good parts of my personality and built those up I was more confident I even made friends  no serious relationships yet, but I dont need a relationship to feel good so maybe, take the white pill im still edgy tho lol
Great vid. Your beautiful
So like...if I went to an incel forum to spread encouragement and positivity it would have no effect?
The internet has always been a rotten place, it's just that a lot more people are on it today. Back in the dial up days, any AOL chat room could be as bad as the worst 4chan thread, but it felt like there was a certain detachment and dimensional separation between the computer monitor and reality then. Great video. Thanks for uploading.
Shut up and drink your wine. Or give it to me. I'm obsessed. Must be the negative bone structure.
This is probably the best video I've ever seen about the Incel movement, addressed with great decomposition of their beliefs and even compassion. The additional perspective from being a transwoman is brilliant as well. But...please STOP talking about the ocean and thunderstorms. I am....feeling things....
I ghost wrote that opening post.
You're really pretty and funny, i would totally date you.
I LOVE YOU!
This was a neat video
29:40 - *That's exactly what it is!!* How did I never put that together before? It really makes me realize what I used to do when I was in negative places like that. Therapy and moving away from that has helped a lot.
What about small people!?!
Very smart.. thx
Don't cut your dick off, at least until you read some credible studies on how it affects life of those who undergo it. It's non reversible, obviously, and from what I've heard has a pretty negative effect on life satisfaction in many cases.
"I want to understand who they are and why they're like this" <Overbearing disgusted expression.>  2:43 into the clip and I already know I am gonna hate it.
Are you transgender?
Ugh what an extraordinary woman 💗
This genuinely scares me.
Ach unten, da unten Die kuhle Ruh! Ach Bachlein, liebes Bachlein, So singe nur zu.
I love your style. It feels like I'm being educated by a sexy vampire 😂
12:10 how insecure one can be? Dude just admit you like to bake bread, Jesus, you won't grow a vagina if you like shit like this. Also most bakers are men.
Maybe getting into pimple porn would divert incel energy.
wow, I think you are a very compassionate, inspiring person, and you're still able to make the content engaging and humorous. Keep it up
First ContraPoints video. Subbed!
Holy shit, this was an incredible video, and I don't even care that much about the topic of incels. CP = Art God.
my entirely unfounded and definitely wrong theory about incels is that it is connected to feminism but not in the way they think  basically, what hurts more? being rejected by someone you don't respect and just want to have sex with or someone you do respect and want to start a loving relationship with?   their dream isn't being a 'chad' but to be the lead of their very own plucky romantic comedy, then can't really deal with the harsh reality that there's no princess charming just for them out there - i'm totally off, aren't i?
Hey, If it means anything, I think you look lovely and I woundn't even guess you were trans if you didn't tell me
21:49 oh I thought you meant a different few millimeters of bone. Am I immature?
If Von Braun was the first incel, then is Tom Lehrer the founder of r/inceltears?
wtf i amw atching right now ? fuck incels, fuck america !
"How dare you say things that are entirely true?!" LOL First video and I'm already a fan. Liked an subscribed.
I recently had to cope with a really rough and unexpected breakup with someone I was sure was The One. From my side we seemed so perfectly fit for each other, I gave everything I could to be good to them, and we had such a bright future together that when that ended, I started to spiral hard into belief that my chances of finding a true love was over, and I'd never find a happiness like that again.   Strangely, I found myself coming back to this video on the regular. I think it's your noticing that even us non-redpillers can be vulnerable to the same pits of insecurity and hopelessness, and knowing that we all go through that in some way and recognizing how that can be stopped before it's too late meant an awful lot to me. So thanks, Natalie.
These videos are so well made. I love it 🥰
For real, you should write erotica xD
I love this video so much, that i had to remind myself several times while watching it, that i had already upvoted.
You are so insightful and your makeup is amazing ♡
This wasn't a parody?
The Inherent eroticism of the sea was so hilarious I clicked subscribe right then.
You are our tranny, fag, degenerate. <3
Why do you feel the need to apologize for hateful terms used by others just because you say them to explain them to us?
I stan you lmao
Not that I expect my comment to change your personal opinion of yourself cause I know that's never how that works.  But I thought you should know your cheekbones are amazing and I am very jealous.  You are super gorgeous and I hope your surgeries go well and make you feel more comfortable and confident.
God I love your whole aesthetic .... I have a lot of gay feelings for you
I loved every moment of this😂
Once you commenter on the inherent sexual attraction to the ocean I knew I had to hit that like button :D that bit was pure gold.  And oh so true, those luscious waves.. roiling in the deep... :O
Just a little critique: calling them bigots is one thing, but those hierarchical ideas are really just fascism. Call them what they are. Regardless, I love all of your points! Well done. :)
Heya contra, just wanted to say that up until last week I was in a really bad place mentally, and then I found your videos. It made me look at the external, the things I should really be worrying about, rather than berating myself. So basically you helped me out of this rut. And yes I know that it is hilarious that I am a woman commenting on a video about angry celibate men but thank you. You brought the laughter back.
This is amazing. I feel like I’m watching YouTube in 2083
FUck, I just realized Tiffany Tumbles called Aidria "Hon" ...
Is this a trap?
I saw a comment saying you look like Winona Ryder and honestly, as much as I love that shoplifting ass bitch, I think you look like her but prettier. She has more masculine facial features than you. You are absolutely  S T U N N I N G  and I fucking adore your channel, keep doing u sis, killin it xx
Hey, rather a personal ramble to be lost in the comment section, but i need this.  Looking back now i can laugh with a sigh of relief but it was not allways so. cumming from a broken family: emotionally absent father (daddy where are you? i need you), dominant mother (i hate you! i hate women! but... you give me comfort) UUUUGH, i dont wish this on anyone. AND growing up was hard, Inability to connect with boys and dislike for women led me to preety dark corners of my mind to say lightly. in a way you could say i built a wall to keep bad things out (wink-wink) but i ended up isolating myself from others. in a way i am happy for all the beating ups i got because only that got through. when i was laying on the ground sobbing was the only time i didnt feel superior. fast forward dial up modem, MSN messenger, learning english through runescape, highschool, alcohol and substance abuse, destruction of self, relearning, forgetting, forgiving, fucking up all again, rejection, doubt, hate, HATE WOMEN!, breakdown, same process, abusive relationships (you are not my mother!(give me comfort, be my mommy)) UUUUGH, i dont wish this on anyone. all at the same time you are a man, a man should not and must not show emotions, do not talk about your problems because you have none, you are tough, you are a MAN! by this time you can figure up yourself where i stood on any idea that gave women power because: my mother had power over me, she is a woman therefore any woman that gets power will be like my mother.....  FLAWLESS logic but it made me succeptable to some really bad ideas from at that time laugh at creationists/theists YT chanells transitioning to SJW=cancer and later feminism=cancer. not only i got in a circlejerk of like-damaged-minded poeple who told eachother metaphysical speculations about women but also about worldview. i spent half a day waching 30-40ish something men talk about how the OTHER side is dumb, how easy it is to laugh and i felt smart, i felt like i belong.  two years later i was talking with a friend and she just bursted: what the hell is wrong with you? you sound just like my father! her father? what the f*? that guy is like ancient, doesnt know how to use computer except to read comments on news articles and complains about migrants ALL the time.  Did i really sound like that?  and than it hit me:  i dont like him, i dont like Cartman, i dont like my mother,... because i dont like a part of ME that is like that.  TL:DR Life can be pretty shitty, we all face shitty situations, shitty this shitty that butt at the end: Go outside, go for a walk, try to accept yourself, breathe,... hell, hammer a nail through your fist if you want to, bingewatch political videos on youtube if you want to, i am not your mother. No one is anymore. you are you. See you space cowboy, much love from Enej
these people were in all probability severely abused psychologically and emotionally neglected during childhood. This is an attempt to rationalize their pain and understand it, Although it is an ineffective attempt as it merely projects it to others. The other issue is their faith in their hypotheticals but if they didn't have this faith i guess this world view wouldn't exist. They call others superficial for being lookists but they don't realize that they're the ones who are extremely concerned with appearance. Stop thinking the world is this idea that you have in your head constructed via apriori principles god damn it. end rant
As somebody who touched the surface of this ideal back when I was a teenager; one point I'd make about this topic is how our culture represents masculinity and sex, hyping it up to be amazing and the "end goal" for heroes in movies (getting the girl). Or how action heroes get it just because (007, for instance). This leaves incels to feel like there is indeed something wrong with them that they are not attracting the opposite sex. That they are not a part of this "inner circle" of people who have lost their virginity.
Around 10:30-50 reminds me strongly of how my art history professor described the views of Gaughan and a few other artists of his time period, ie, woman are either pure Virgins or shameful man destroying "femme Fatale" whores and there's no middle ground between the two
I love you so much you make so much sense too Iove how you talk just wanted to say you're awesome
Too bad more incels don’t kill themselves before they do harm to more valuable people.
"FEEEEMMMOOOOIIIDDSS" and "The Chad Circumference" asmr fucking killed me
when i'm on my period i wish my vagina was a fuckhole tbh
Reality is getting fucking crazy as hell.
yeah incels take it to the extreme, but LDAR due to rejection and friendlessness isn't exactly unjustified. Some people weren't as lucky when it comes to genes and you have to be stupid to completely ignore it.
This is the first video i saw from you And i just wanna say i've been blessed to have found your channel, the way you mix an amazing aesthetic, dramatic lighting and characterization, intelligent arguments, great humor with just the right amount of degeneracy makes me so, so happy you honestly have no idea Please keep up the great content and pour milk on my chest, mommy
This is one of the most intelligent and mind-blowing analyses of human society and psychology I've ever seen. You are brilliant. And funny. And, dear God, brilliant.
can i fuck you?  seriously..  NO! no coffee!  just sex..  and dont cut your dick off :-*
Usually I go to your videos because I love your political/philosophical content, but I think this is my favorite video of yours because you show so much kindness and empathy, and allow yourself to relate to and humanize a group that many find problematic. I wish you the best.  Also—I'm a classical music major, and I LOVE the Hebrides Overture. Thanks so much!
this was for real fascinating. thanks for adding the bit about catastrophizing as well; i never realized there was a word for that. every time i fuck up something minor like show up to a meeting a couple minutes late or mess up some paperwork that's easily fixed, my mind consistently jumps to absolutely convoluted and ridiculous scenarios. learning that this phenomenon is prevalent enough to have a word invented for its occurrence  really helps with the isolated feeling it produces, since i know i'm not alone in feeling it. seriously, thanks so much for that.
i was a virgin until i wasn't.  as a guy who has had a small/medium amount of sex, i can tell you sex is not that great. its really not worth all the ranting and raving that society puts on it, and i think its pretty stupid all the sex-havers who shame virgins because its really not something to be proud of. being a virgin and not being a virgin are the same thing. you do not change after you've had sex. you do not feel different after having sex (as in different as a person, not minutes after)  sometimes masturbation feels better than sex. sex can also be very emotionally hurtful. i highly recommend sex with someone you love and care about. sex with no backstory will likely make you feel empty and horrid, if youre anything like me.  and yes, the sex i had was amazing, its not like i had bad experiences, its just that sex at its pinnacle or apex is not really that great. sex is overrated.
i never found you before this, but, contra, you have an unique voice and so i am happy youre in my life :)
This is the first video I’ve seen about the topic that actually tried to help incels get better. It takes a really good person to see the human in them. Congratulations, ContraPoints.
A good video from innuendo studios about white fascism was removed for “hate speech,” I don’t know if you mirror but if you see this comment, could you look into getting leftist YouTube to mirror it?
Pretty good.  ON the one end I felt bad for these guys, but then at the same time I felt guilty because I felt like they could be extremely dangerous.
You're really good at talking about these topics, but every time you make the ultra-nasally voice like at 17:25, it makes me wish the ability for humans to hear sound never existed.
Her experience on both sides takes this video to the next level, away from another person pointing out how this version of 'nice guys finish last' is again bullshit
i LOVE you....keep doing what you do....never stop...
Gee they sound like such pleasant company, especially to women. I can't imagine why they would be so repulsive to people.
Did you catch that? The internet is for introverts so log off extrovert scum! Go to a club or something.
Hot Trans over real women any day, there I said it
I'm ironically watching this on a day where I have called in sick, and I've done the catastrophizing thought process in the example.... the exact same one up to level 6.
So ... there is a movement of males reinforcing and intricately categorizing their belief that they are never gonna achieve (what they believe to be) the sine qua non of human happiness? Does that mean that there is a movement of cancer patients reinforcing their beliefs that they are all gonna die in horrible, cancer-ridden pain (so they take up smoking in a big way)? Or how about parents reassuring one another that some evil stranger is going to inevitably kidnap, molest, and torture their child (so they leave them alone at bus stops at 2 AM)? What kind of fucktard deliberately structures their world view around the thing they fear the most? (Contrapoint probably answered that but I missed it). Great video BTW.
first time watching this person  you could have fooled me there, and i prolly wouldn't mind the dick anyways.
Ive seen less than a minute of your channel and Im obsessed!
I want a corndog now.
That's kind of what my long depressive episode a few years back felt like. I didn't want to be told there was hope. I was angry just at the suggestion that I could have a future and I shouldn't just wait for a truck to hit me. I had no idea there was a word for believing that all painful things must be true, but that was exactly it.  I got out of that very, very slowly. But if I'd had an online community encouraging me not to ... I too easily never would have. This is literal mental illness raised up as truth, depressive symptoms mistaken for wisdom. Which, if you're in that state, is incredibly easy to do.  I've just now started actually watching your videos after circling them for ages; honestly, I was apprehensive of how cutting and true they might be. And they are. And I love them for it.
look if you took the brain of the average incel and put it in the bod of an average chad , females would still see him for what he is ,  MENTALLY not all there .  I went to school like most people and I remember the boys that simply had an undeveloped interest in girls  THEY ARE MENTALLY UNDEVELOPED WHICH THEN INFLUENCES THEIR PHYSICAL DEVELOPEMENT .
Your bones are beautiful!
Watching the first 6 minutes of this video, I started to suspect I had somehow stumbled through an inter-dimensional portal. I started an attempt to verify this. Could my cat now talk? Was fire now cold? Did objects fall up? As each test returned a negative result, the dreadful truth began to assert itself: this was my world! AAAAAAHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHH!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
You are a beautiful goddess. Every day.
Also, I have to +1 on the fact that, "I probably would have let you sniff my panties, but that's 3rd date shit not before we even meet shit" thought. Guys, stop starting with kinky as if that's all a woman is. Who people is on a SPECTRUM. It's not like someone's just a porn star or a librarian yet the mentality behind people who think it's cool to ask someone about pantie sniffing type activities seem to think human beings have no nuance or depth. So, on the bright side, it helps me sort idiots out. But.. fucks sake... a lot of you guys? You're missing out because of your own assumptions and ignorance as to how human beings work.
Sour creams.... LOL... fucking savage.
I've been examine my skull and I found that I'm a chad....I guess I'm a chad...but I'm gay soooo, am I still a chad?
When you started talking about you being a transitioned man, I was legit like wait..... i'm still at the youtuber I clicked on right???? I literally didn't even realize until you said something, You are beautiful, never forget that
As always the Comment section is  cancer.
Bruh I'm ftnb and reading those transphobic comments seriously made me fucking reverse dysphoric???
You're so fucking funny I'm crying I wish I could click a like button 5000x.
A truly brilliant video, particularly the insights betwixt incels and the TTTTs and the commonalities between the two - I would also include in that the high incidence of mild autism in both trans folk and incels. At one stage of my life I could have ended up in either category.    The other comment I would make is that framing your problems as entirely insoluble and then stewing in the faux-solidarity of resentment is not exclusively the prerogative of white men, to some extent rape survivor communities etc do the same thing, although it is true that an incel seems to go postal every few months whereas the feminists havent picked up the gun since Valerie Solonas.   This puts me in mind of "the Cinema Show" by Genesis: "I have crossed between the poles, for me there's no mystery. Once a man, like the sea I raged, once a woman, like the earth I gave. But there is in fact more earth than sea."
As an artist, a college art instructor and a self-proclaimed asexual male - I find your videos fascinating.  Thank you for creating such intellectual content that brings forth discussion about topics which most people cannot fathom.  You have a meticulous way of explaining complex gender issues that is truly enlightening.  Many Thanks.
12:20 Lol, Careful, if you bake to much, your dick might fall off
Quite good, I like your content. New here.
That intro sounds like the coldest, most clinical description of sex I’ve ever heard.
Don't know why this showed up in my feed, but I do know 2 things: 1) I'm glad it did, this was a great insight into the Incel community,  and 2) T-Girls are definitely on the menu next time I uh, "do the deed", because, well, because DAMN.
It doesn't matter if Incels are deluded about a lot of things, they are not wrong about female hypergamy and feminism making everybody miserable.
My girlfriend is a gorgeous big-headed goddess.
Incels are called black pills, red pills are the " woke " in reference to politics I don't know where the whole red pill = incel thing came from
I LOVE YOU
I highly recommend "The Man's Guide to Women: Scientifically Proven Secrets from the Love Lab About What Women Really Want" by John Gottman PhD., Julie Schwartz Gottoman PhD., Douglas Abrams, Rachel Carlton Abrams M.D., Lara Love Hardin.   The book covers how to approach others, not for just sex, but for a life-long partnership and how to cultivate that relationship.   It is very informative and backed by science.  Most of of the advice is for those seeking life time partners, not conquests.  If you have doubts about the authors, do some research.  Wikipedia, Google search, don't really count, but there are a good start.
"I am ultra masculine" I am man! Hear me roar and beat my chest and make manly macaroons in the color alpha red. No alpha red is NOT pink. It is a manly color
I don't know how I found you but I'm so very happy I did.
22:57 *I look in his eyes and I see the devil* 😢😢  -Is this what people see during sleep paralysis??-
This is so insane it seems made up. Like this is toxic/fragile masculinity to the max. Like this is disgusting and dangerous
I lost it at “the inherent eroticism of the sea”
You had me at the storm... Oof. But no, really, without sarcasm: thank you for explaining this.  I've never really been able to put my finger on exactly what bothers my about incels and the culture behind the ideology.  Funny that as I'm finding myself recovering from the digital self harm you mention, and find myself dealing with incels; your video pops up as a recommended video.  Thank you ContraPoints.  Seems I have a new channel to binge on in a desperate attempt to find my brain with something more intelligent than what I get exposed to on the daily.
What a bunch of sad delusional assholes.
The sea is a filthy tramp.  Mountains though, mountains are true love.
Your transition is going very well, yes.
Thank you so much for this video.   Hearing about the forums where men post pictures just to be berated on purpose shows the sociopathy that runs through this entire...movement I guess you could call it? These aren't places where men can go to find real brotherhood and acceptance for who they are. Maybe it could have even become this had it not been led by the "alpha males" within it.
Is it weird to think Becky is more attractive than Stacy?
As an Asexual this whole scenario is just really disturbing to ponder. Incredible video!
Incels need to get in shitty relationships and have bad or mediocre sex like the rest of us. They'll probably even more depressed and miserable when they find out life is nothing but crappy relationships and bad sex.
I'm 5'6 my girlfriend is 5'7 I would say I'm a 7 when it comes to looks shes a solid 8 height or appearance doesnt matter she told me shes had a crush on me since she first saw me freshman year of high school.. Just shoot your shot!!
Am I in love? I'm confused now... Anyway. Great vid!!
I can't get over that most of the text in this is in the font from Abe's Oddysee
Do I realy have too feel bad about eugenetic racists killing themselfs ? ok shit now i do
Today on I didn't know I was sexually attracted to bodies of water.
Holy living shit, you are so hilarious!
I did all the cooking when my wife and I were still dating, she kept that skill a secret from me. Maybe if these guys became bread scientists or omelet scientists or cheesecake scientists they'd suddenly find themselves slightly more attractive, Chad-skull or not.
I learned from this that the incel community is on some level the same as any community really. As an artist, it's much easier to say "I'm bad at drawing, other people have a talent for drawing and I don't. I'd never compete. I shouldn't practice, I should just LDR." than putting in effort every day to better myself and work toward who I really want to be, and to, in the meantime, just be satisfied with who I am and what I can do. From that perspective, the incel point of view seems to make a lot more sense. It's just that the artist community is generally very encouraging, while the incel community is far from it.  Basically, I think the incel community might need a sub-community that's for incels who are actually open to the idea of self-improvement.
You're amazing.
I wonder if glorification of sex and romance may or may not be the reason why incels exist as many would think sex and romance are main goals in life and so when you cant get them like that, its gonna depress you. same time I think if they all of a sudden got laid by someone they redeemed to be far beyond their reach, they would not be any happier than they were before it. because getting laid doesnt lead into long time happiness when life has so much more substance.
Omg when you first tapped your fingers on the skull in the start of the video I was like, “haha it’d be funny if she turned to the camera and was like, ‘This is an ASMR video now’ then you did it” then you did it
Imagine how gay u look
Just stumbled upon your channel while searching for funny incel videos and well, i have to say; i am very glad i did. I was entertained for 35 minutes straight. Love the humour, your points, the music and the atmosphere. You got one more subscriber.
You are absolutely hilarious!
This community needs to book some appointments. Therapy is nothing to be ashamed of and I didn't say that to ridicule them, it's  just a friendly advice.
I just discovered this channel and I'm in loveeee
aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaand SUBSCRIBED this bitch a good bitch i like this bitch
Love your video.  Hilarious and frightening at the same time.  Love the allusion to sexuality and the ocean, storms..... Yes!  As for:  "A downward spiral of self-loathing"  I'm sure glad I didn't grow up with the internet!  Good advice, to get off these self-destructive forums.
i love how the "becky" and "stacy" pics were taken from a fetish deviantart about bimbofication LMAOO bye
not really sure you should've said the thing about "some trans women will say you look good no matter what" thing in such a widely viewed video... that ain't gonna help the people in tttt and it seems like something a cis audience might use as a weapon. like i can easily see a particularly clever online bully pulling this quote to discredit someone getting complimented by saying "oh all trans women just say that, it's not true"  like yeah it's a thing we think, but it's also a thing that we talk about "pitty passing" and i'm not sure that's a thing that should be broadcast to a cis audience or is even true
the vocab is so funny
Aint nothing wrong with baking bread as a man. Really male and female or man and woman is purely a biological statement in my opinion. So anything that has nothing to do withbyour biological make up is neither female or male. I'm a dude. I bake bread, I know how to ride horses. I study philosophy and I do boxing So yeah... You're really just harming when applying gender to anything that has nothing to do with biological make up. Hope I'm making sense. I'm tired af. Bed time. Sleep well. Joejoe Really don't folliw incel logic
Fucking tranny gave me a boner. am i gay now?
I was sent here by progressive voice.  Glad I came.  Literally and figuratively.
6:35 gave me asmr
I thought this would be a music video
It's not that hard to become a Chad or Stacy, just lift and eat well...the is no excuse to be an incel.
19:14 Oh my god that blonde is beautiful.
If I was a guy, it scares me to think that I might have fallen down this rabbit hole mindset. I'm 26 virgin FEEEEEMOOOID who has never even been in a relationship before. I'm terrified to start dating because I feel it's expected to have experience by now. Sometimes I feel doomed that it just will never happen and should just accept my aloneness. However, I don't think the reason I'm not in a relationship is specific to the way I look. And I don't hate men the way incels seem to hate/blame women. I have always felt rejection and fear of the unknown is my barrier. But it can also be really difficult when people give you "easy" dating advice when you feel completely undesirable. I'm still working stuff out and trying to have a more positive worldview on things. I hope the guys who consider themselves incels are able to break away from these echo chambers and consider a different future.
"At least these pricks care enough about my pussy to be assholes about my dick!" ~Well Said~
you can always become transcell.
Not gonna lie, I'm only here to hear you describe the ocean.
Het outside! Take the green pill
freakin' loving this wonderful absurd lady<3 what even is this rainbow boudoir set?  where an i get a creepy glitterhead? why am i being so entertained by such a depressing topic? does cleaning my room involve actually picking things up or can i just stuff my dirty laundry in the closet?
Goodness, this was super eye-opening
"With a voice like nails on a chalkboard" One of the first thoughts I had when watching this video was "Wow, I like that voice." I will almost shamelessly admit I noticed that before I even thought "Wow, how informative this is". Thanks for the info, and thanks for not making it a blaming or fighting video. The "aristocrat" segments were very entertaining as well.  And once again... cool voice.
are you an incel, contrapoints?
"Hon" originated on /cd/ at 420chan.org.
i genuinely thought you were a cis woman when i started watching this video
I love the way you say femoid, queen!
Not roast beef, but sour grapes. Gross lol.
They need to learn guitar chicks dig guitar
No wonder these people end up killers they are insane
This is my first time here on the channel, and I must say that you are EXTREMELY beautiful.
Im kind of an incel and I love you mi lady
i love that you sympathizes and humanize them and give a genuine solution instead of just bashing incels like most people do. you're such a great person <3
Okay, I guess I kinda see the analogy between incels, and trans-spaces, but the important thing to me is we don't commit mass murder/suicides because our bone structure is a little off.  I'm a little insulted that incels feel oppressed because they scare off the females (And call them Females, like Ferengi) but when was that last time a transwoman shoot up a school because she didn't have a safe bathroom to piss in?  That's where it falls short:  Men chose to be incels, they fucking do.  It's not involuntary, it's calling women bitch so they can blame them for being called bitches, meanwhile we're getting gang-raped in jails.  The wrong jails, not for mass murder, but for not using the Urinal.
Looks like the forum is being called mtfg currently
It does always come back to skulls, and for no trivial reason. Which feature of other people do we observe 80% of the time we're looking at them? Which body part, besides genitals of course, changes the most in response to aging, sickness, and confidence levels?  Give head to get ahead. Skulls aren't worth everything but if you knew everything about them, you'd have some special insights into the modern sexual market that most people don't.
The sea isn't nearly as erotic as you talking about the eroticism of the sea.
Thank you YouTube for putting this in my algorithm.  Totally my new binge. I could hear you talk for dayzzzzz on end.
As someone that was tempted by the dark side by inceldom. The big irony of incel a is that if they were kind, thoughtful, passionate about something including video games or whatever they are passionate about they would meet someone that potentially would fall in love with them. Sure it would take time and effort but it’s realistic and reasonable to want a relationship they just have to remember their partner is also a person so wanting that supermodel that shares nothing in common with you makes no sense.  Put yourself out their, flirt a little, be fun and don’t worry about shit like if you are too small, don’t have a giant dick, live with your parents, etc. the right women is not going to care because why would you date anyone that sees you as lesser? It’s a blessing if anything because it means you are free truly love someone instead of feeling pressured to just find anyone.  So stop being toxic about love and relationships and worry about being a better you, do fun stuff, enjoy life!   I dunno call it the greenpill approach because the focus is on healing and growing, first you start out as a Luigi afraid of the world and it’s challenges but like a village of Yoshis you nurture and support each other so one day you will blossom into a Link that is full of life, compassion, generosity and a sense of helping others and being their own person!
This video really got some steam rising off my warm pavement.
I think you're beautiful and very charismatic. I also think Keanu Reeves is beautiful (though less charismatic.) The parts of your body which are hidden from sight don't determine whether you are beautiful or not. Best!
I know how much rejection sucks and how easy it is to hate yourself when you feel like you have a lot to offer someone but they don't feel the same way about you. I'm a gay guy, which means that casual sex is absurdly easy for me to find, but a boyfriend isn't. Lonely people need to get better at owning who they are. They need to develop hobbies, exercise, and find things about themselves that they like. That's not guaranteed to find them a partner, but since hobbies and exercise are good all by themselves, that's not that big of a deal. Most importantly, you need to surround yourself with people who see the best in you, which might mean cutting the people who don't out of your life and going it alone for a while.  Usually, you do find someone eventually. Usually.
I'm very late to the party that is your channel but I am so glad that I've found it. You're fantastic and your insights are golden. Thank you for your work.
I can't get over how awesome your lighting is! A simple change of color changes the entire look of the set and surprises me every time. +Sub
You’re beautiful.  I’ve been ‘that guy’.  And now I’m an adult and I fuck lol.
Finally clicked on this recommended video. Don’t regret it.  Keep up the work, gorgeous. FYI I think you are very feminine looking, please don’t pursue excessive surgery to your bone structure
This was so, so fucking beautiful...
Thank you, this video was helpful, fair, and informative. Also, save your money, you really don't need to shave any bones. You're BEAUTIFUL! And I love your voice =)
This is the first video I’ve watched on your channel and before you said anything I believed you were a natural-born woman. But hey, you’re a woman nonetheless...and a hella cute one so 🤷‍♀️😉💕
I just love you. 🤘🐺 Hail Satan❤️
is that a man?
This is an amazing video. Very informative and thoughtful.
THE CHAD AND VIRGIN THING IS A JOKE LMAO. I think. I hope.
A question that has never been answered for me: why don't they just fuck hookers? Ok so they can't form relationships with women...well neither can guys that are deployed in the navy, work on oil rigs and tons of other male professions that isolate their workers from either women or society in general. Ive see rough necks hot off 6 months on an oil rig with 10 grand in their pocket. Theyre hardly suicidal.
If the guy in the beginning would use his talent to actually write books, he could get a succesful life and maybe even a partner. The bitter irony.
This is amazing. I appreciate your work understanding incels in order to bring us this great video!!
I genuinely think you are a hot woman
this femoid is hilarious
Not all red pill guys / pick up artists think so linear almost every pick up artist has their own philosophy in a way some are very pro woman and are very against incels and MGTOW they see hypergamy just as nature being nature and don’t look down on others based on it cause man want to have a girlfriend too
Your videos are amazing!!!
About the "women don't have big heads" thing... yes, we do. My two younger sisters and I all have large heads. Most hats don't fit us. The nurse was concerned when she measured me as a baby. Despite this, we are all pretty good-looking (biological) women.
Incel has never seen a Ram Bow movie in his entire life
First of all, this was amazing, will definitely subscribe. You are absolutely delightful.   Such a fascinating and intelligent take on a movement that both confuses, enrages and terrifies me. Still does, but in a more informed manner.  Also, I've never thought about rain or the ocean in such erotic terms before. Thank you, I feel very enlightened.
I srsly believe the femoid vs stacy pic was a joke on incels and not made from incels
Thank you for this! Just found your channel and must say: at least what I've watched so far: funny, interesting, informative and nicely edited/produced. Again: thanks for this :D Never knew how important the skull was...
I feel the Transgender community can be a solution to the odd Incel community.
Don't worry.  I have pretty manly bone structure myself (I also have the big head thing) and I'm not even trans.  so.
This....this is giving me a headache. I gotta go...
Is anyone else kinda annoyed by her voice
This came up in my recommendations. Love your style for sure. Though it's kinda funny because I was just listening and not looking at the screen and thought 'huh. Sorta sounds like a young and sexy Bea Arthur.'  So basically a young Bea Arthur.
This was the first of your videos I watched and I loved it! The lighting was stunning and it was compassionate without excusing poor behaviour. I definitely subscribed :)
I love your videos so much 💕
You are so beautiful
this video is a masterpiece
0:53 i'm sorry I can't handle it. I'm simply far too gay for this video
When I saw this video in the recommended section, I thought it was gonna be a video about chakras or some spiritual shit. So I click on the video like "Man I hope this video has crystals and shit in it, or maybe I'll learn about acupuncture! that'd be neat, I'd love to learn where to stab my spiritual incels!!" But then... 【ＩＭＡＧＩＮＥ　ＨＯＷ　Ａ　ＷＯＭＡＮ　ＦＥＥＬＳ】   ..."This isn't about acupuncture at all" But this video was great, thank you.
THE INHERENT EROTICISM OF THE SEA!!!!!!!!!
I can't sympathize with anyone who wishes to harm innocent people, of course. I can't relate with it either: even at my lowest points I have always reserved my hatred for myself.  I browsed 4chan /r9k/ from the time I was 12 to about 15. It definitely warped my perspective on a lot of things, especially with regard to body image (I was, and still am to some degree, insecure about my short height, which I thought would always prevent me from obtaining romantic love or intimacy). I also became deeply distrustful and guarded in my interactions with other people. Your notion of digital self harm is very accurate I think: during this time I would intentionally seek out content that made me feel like an unlovable freak, probably because it was a way of exercising power over my emotional state, and I sort of got hooked on the rush. Ultimately I was diagnosed with major depressive disorder and treated with drugs and therapy. Today I'm pretty functional and spending most of my time working on school/career stuff. However I think it's hard to overstate just how easy it is for young people to become radicalized by fringe internet communities like incels, white supremacists, jihadists and so on.
Twenty seconds in and already feeling uncomfortable. Way to go dude who wrote that 🙄😂
Oh dear God, thank you for the "Tindr is Garbage" segment. I was feeling horrified at the very concept of incels and then you turned it around with the humor.
incels are the worst people in the world, a bunch of idiots really.
Holy Sh*t! I'm in love with this video!
Feminism is a cancer that must be eradicated.
This was fascinating.  Thank you for sharing your perspective on and empathy for these weirdos.  Your ability to find humor in something I find kinda terrifying (incels) is inspiring.
OMG, as a  fellow non cis person, thank you so much for the level of logic/chill you use when addressing being such. seriously. Making a big deal out of X makes X stay a big deal when in actuality X should be perceived as benign.
r/braincels has been quarantined! Rejoice!
"i don't want to mock incels"  that's fine i got it covered.
urprti
Instant subscribe! I’ve gotten halfway through and can’t wait to binge your channel!
iM a BrEaD sCiEnTiSt 👨🏼‍🔬 🥖
Your my new favourite person!
This was educational AF. This coming from someone that uses youtube primarily for car builds and power tool breakdowns.
First video I've seen from you. And it was so very elegant and insightful. You're amazing. Lots of love from a cis woman with a huge skull :D
"Bread Scientist" omg
It’s like a self-fulfilling prophecy with so many incels. If you believe in your heart you’re ugly and unloveable and no one can convince you otherwise and you refuse to work on your emotional well-being, then that is exactly what you are. Unloved, ugly, and doomed to be alone forever. It’s just an endless circle of self-loathing and pity parties and digging a hole deeper into this dark place.
As if being socially awkward, scrawny-lookin' and not getting laid wasn't bad enough, I'm also _technically_ one of these dipshits :D
Shit. I've never heard the term "digital self harm" before, but I've done it a LOT!
Well....I'm in love 💖   But...as a lesbian it's pretty much radio silence on the dating apps once I block men from seeing me. But I'm not mad at women for it...
I'm just a ceibate living in monastery on the island of Celebes in Indonesia. Sometimes, I go to the neighboring Thailand as a missionary to educate ladyboys in the gospel of St. Penis.
This is one of the most insightful views into the sad and oft-frightening parts of the internet that I have ever seen.   Thank you for your words, and for amazing skull commentary.
I think you dismiss the facial structure thing out of hand in a way that isn't valid. People have used it to support their crazy ideas, sure, that's true, but how does that dismiss the entire concept?  Here's a study about UFC fighters and facial structure. https://digest.bps.org.uk/2014/06/20/a-mans-fighting-ability-is-written-in-his-face/
I'm mad that you put my favourite Mendelssohn piece (and probably my favourite string quartet ever????) as the background of that fucking intro X(
Oh my god, I lost it at the TERF walking in!
Wow, you're a seriously talented comedian. I'm jealous! Your delivery is so smooth!
Alright, what the hell???
I was slighly an incel litterally 6 months ago, now I'm in a loving relationship and couldn't be happier. It might be more difficult for people with bad looks, but not impossible
How about we share! No more or, we need and! How bout we try polyamory!!!
I'd rather have radio silence than an army of dicks pointed at me.
Sounds like all these 'hetero' men need to just sleep with each other. Problem fixed. Never alone again. From the way they make it seem women are just their enemy they're trying to get one over on, they should maybe stay with their own kind instead? Doesn't seem like none of these men care about reproducing anyway.
You're fucking cool and I look forward to binging every video you have. Thank you for discussing this and opening my heart a little. <3
This video was excellent, thank you YouTube algorithm!
GAH!  I'm probably too late, but don't do the bone-shaving!  You look great!  If you hadn't mentioned it, I'd have never have known...maybe because I take people at face value...
Holy shit, you made rainstorms and the ocean attractive!
You gotta stop apologizing for the terminology in this video. It's hilarious that this is a real thing.
Roosh's beard is absolutely atrocious. That is all
when I first heard about the "incel" community I thought it was a joke. self-pity is not a very attractive trait... go shave your neckbeard and if you're lucky a female might stoop so low as to fuck Yall. its your damn attitudes that's why you're all virgins.
Oh my god you're absolutely amazing! I love how in depth you went over the topic, I looked at a lot of stuff about incels when I first found out about them but none were as insightful as this video. I'm gonna go think about the eroticism of the sea now
Omg I love you! The part about the messaging on tinder to just find out if they won’t kill you and that they can’t even do that! At that stage I’m not trying to see if you’ll be the father of my children but I’m just calculating the likelyhood of me surviving an evening with them😂
The reason prostitues exist, sheesh.
How sad and pathetic does a person have to be to actively identify as an incel...
ewww transgender
I was almost an incel once when I was a teenager. Then I grew up and stopped blaming circumstances for my issues as well as my lack of putting myself out there. Why all the pretty girls went for certain guys and the fact that I was alone a lot. Being an only child in that manner was a blessing and a curse. Not mention compounded with chemical depression times could be very difficult. However I realized that as I got older the girls I thought I wanted I really didn't like much at all. As we had nothing in common besides the fact that it was just physical bullshit. I also high functioning autism but I didn't use it as an excuse not to interact with people and make friends. Some things were harder than others I'll admit as I wasn't the best with social cues and what not at one time. But you learn and grow through experience. So anybody blaming illness or mental issues is deluding themselves. It can be done. Stop blaming others and better yourself. Deal with hard emotions even if you have to talk to someone about it. It's not an easy process for some to self actualize in this manner but I promise you it can be done. I found the woman I'm going to marry and have never been happier. I'm in my 30s now but age means nothing to me. As things work out in due time because that's how the universe works I think. Either way, confront the source of your frustrations, surround yourself with a good support system as well as good friends, and don't get down on yourself when things don't go your way. Everything works out for good if you work at it and try your hardest. There will be growing pains of course but they will pass.
I just found you and have instantly fallen in love with your personality! You are absolutely hilarious and soo beautiful! Subscribed
Damn my tiny skeleton
I am genuinely overwhelmed by your intelligence and beauty
Bruh I'm not a fan of accents usually unless you are Russian because then I want to make communism jokes but daaaaamn that intro voice
First time viewer here. Very well done video. Looking forward to checking out your other stuff!
uhhhh no there aren't, therearentfuckingwomenwithheadsasbigasthat
ok but does she talk about how ugly the left skull mans is to the right skull bc that's like comp sci vs sports scholarship
The world needs more of this.
Shishter snacc
This is so fucking pathetic. These dudes needed someone in their lives to point them to their passion or calling in life. Women are just something on the side to fool around with if you feel like it. Anyone who is stupid enough to allow themselves to be brain washed into believing they need validation from someone else deserves to live in their personal hell. Women don't respect you and men who aren't afraid to be men look down on you with contempt as well. Since the host of this channel speaks of bone structure and such, "she" looks like a tranny with "her" accented facial structures and much too deep voice. You ain't fooling nobody sweetheart.
As an ex incel let me give the low down on how I assume most have reached such a state as I did. I use to be very unconfident so much so that I believed women should approach me instead. It was a gender role reversal. Never got approached. I was at a point were if a women didn’t look at me while we walked by each other to me she just rejected me. So why not better myself? Because I believed women should love me for who I was. I demanded unconditional love from them. So those were the two layers of bitterness I had against them. So it’s role reversal and looking for a mothers acceptance(most female interaction I had) from complete strangers. All these beliefs can stem from a sheltered life.
I didn't know you weren't born a woman.  From AFAB, I think you are BEAUTIFUL~~~!
you made my day！ Thanks
tbh i can get that feeling of being automatically inferior bc of genetics or something you cant control. for a long time i felt that i was weak and inferior and blamed it on being a girl and on having problems socializing. i still deal w it from time to time, but i've realized that most of my "problems" have not stopped other women and people w them to be successful and strong. i suppose its just a way for us to conform to our current state instead of actually facing our problems (something i admit i have trouble doing). its interesting to see the mindset of these people from an objective and rather relatable lense, and tbh i do hope that they realize that no matter what, they do have a chance at being happy. (and happiness comes in different ways, with or without pussy)
First video of yours I've seen. I am completely blown away and impressed. What a magnificent human.
What do you call incels that are queer women (mainly masculine of center)? Is that possible? I know so many lesbians that fit the profile. How is toxic masculinity so fucking influential, that I can't escape it by dating women? Wth!  Also, is there a different term for trans incels? You said they can be separated by attractiveness, IQ, race--what about non-cis men? I feel like there's a spot for them in this conversation.
this is such bias bullshit.
Ha, I'm gay
I love your voice, actually :) It's so soothing.
It’s probably a bad idea, because associating with the group at all is bad, but part of me really wants a “VOLCEL IF YOU WOULDN’T, BITCHES” shirt.
I think i'm in love 😍   Subscribed!
I normally don't watch long videos on youtube unless it's something of high interest, usually something about an existing interest of mine. But I tried this one and watched it till the end and happy I did. I won't look at storms the same anymore. The ending about the storms and the sea was one of the best things I've heard in a while.
50 shades of H2O.
Só eu que amei ela...?
Jeito nerd e misógino...  Kkkk isso já demonstra preconceito sobre os incels
Rock and roll is not dead!
They take it too far, but there is a kernel of truth to their theories.
Fell in love @ 12:29 :)
You are soooo flipping smart and gorgeous I would spoon you babe♡
Alas, poor yorick...he was an incel
I'm not a woman, bread is a scientific thing, men love science, I used to be a real scientist, I'm suuuuuper masculine, I love bread because it is basically like getting a phd in astrophysics
27:21 this is literally being a woman. All the time.
grab them by their black ops tshirts  i fucking lost it
This was a fun video, but I believe you should have looked at the effects that society and late capitalism have had on Incels. You talk a lot about Incels and the causes, but I feel that you did not consider the truth behind some of their critiques of modern society.
Never been on your channel before, and you do you- but you 100% passed as female to me. I don't think you need the surgery, but you do what makes you feel good.
I just like a lot guys turn to red pill to find an explanation for things I can’t explain and to be honest a lot of it can be true but is not the overwhelming truth behind most women, but I realize the more you dig the more depressing and unhelpful that shit is, over time I’ve felt hopeless and I’ve been trying to move away from it but listening to you talk about the issue these things bring up in a way that isn’t patronizing is the most progress I’ve felt toward getting away from this cancerous shit. Thank you.
Oi so like random useless bastard on the internet here, but I genuinely couldn't tell you were trans until you said so in the video. I had to go back with subtitles and confirm. You go girl! <3
You look like you got rejected by women so much that you became one
this video has been popping up in my recommended constantly for over a month
you are simply wonderful. pleasure to make your acquaintance
If wrist thickness was as important as incels think, I would be in a permanent state of having sex.  I have weirdly thick wrists. I'm not enormously keen on them.
Bruh these incels just need a hug godamn lmao
That may sound weird but this is the first video I see of yours and I just find it very elegant and beautiful. The wonderfall music, your fascinating clothes and the magistical ambience just make it a very plaisant video. I just wanted to point that out and compliment you because it truely amazed me ^^
Scary
What a brilliant discussion. I don't know how I stumbled across you but I'm so glad I did!
I subscribed immediately I really enjoyed your presentation I think you'd be great whatever you're talking about I look forward to more of your videos
the end of this video is beautiful.  thank you.
This video is so therapeutic...
I dont understand. How can there be a community around not getting laid? It makes no sense. None whatsoever What would you even talk about?
32:05 I'd bet good money that this man has literally never had a conversation with a woman.
I just found my new favorite YouTube channel. Edit: Bitch lookin like Winona Ryder, I look more a "hon" than this cunt My goddamn jaw like Hercules...how did I even end up here?
Men need more mental help awareness yo... Jesus. Fucking. Christ.
why are we still here, just to suffer
This video is just marvelous
I dig that phrase "masochistic epistemology". That resonates a lot.
"The manosphere exists because rock and roll is dead" I love you Contra
Great video! Thanks for sharing your story and thoughtful self-reflection. I think you made some great contra-points.
This is pure gold 👏👏👏👏
ngl "Chang" is REALLY funny
Finally someone advocating for us sea perverts
Also, you're beautiful.
Your videos are so well produced, and the content actually has...depth. I am definitely subscribing.
Holy shit is that what Roastie means? That's so fucked up. You caught me within 5 minutes congrats. I thought that meant like... someone being roasted.
I find it hard to take incels seriously when they talk about interactions with women like how a commercial narrator for arby's talks about a bacon sandwich.
The best solution for Incels; Get the fuck off the internet! Situations like that it's NOT good to find like minded people. It becomes a hive mentality. This is a lot of info to swallow. I try to keep it simple for dudes..make yourself happy. If that means you want to get married and have kids..go for it. If you want to bang as many chicks as you want, go for it! I've been on both sides of that coin. I'm not the marrying type, I like variety..I feel suffocated. But I'm also not the super Alpha male type either where I want to fuck as many chicks as I can. I enjoy my alone time, but if a girl comes along and we click, we go from there :)
Now do Nice Girls.
Brilliant! You make the world a better place, using your creativity and intellect. The best entertainment teaches.
Lets get into chad more. Is he hanging?
you or fascinatingly dark in this vid. Bravo!!
NOO OOONE KNOOWS WHAT ITS LIIIIKE... TO BE THE SAAAD MAAAAN!
question ??? How does having sex change the shape of the skull. I never thought oh shit my head hurts after I nutted??????
Please talk about the sea more!!!! I'm nearly there!!!!!
Fuckin' Normies.
How did I just find this channel?!?! Damn you YouTube! Time to binge.
Love this channel, she is soo classy
17:41 Yeah, I'm subscribing for sure. And then maybe watching everything in the archive.
Side note, you definitely pass. I didn’t realize you were trans until u said it
Tbh I wouldn’t be too surprised if you were a real woman and I wasn’t too surprised when you said you were trans
I wonder if this person’s other videos are so good
Wow, I've never heard of incels before, but I think this video sold me on it.  Going to check that page out tonight.
and here i thought that the transphobia in this video wouldnt affect me, repressed feelings heeeereeee weeeee gooooooooooooooo
As an archaeologist who has seen many skulls, I call bullshit on the claim that men always have larger heads....
I came back to rewatch this video and still "FFEEEEEEEEMMOOOOOIIIIIIIDS" makes me lose my shit every time
Sounds like all these boys need is a coffee making dish doing robot sex slave ;)
Veteran Vag and her husband, Penis Emeritus.
This femoid has a point
oh my god. I'm a cisgender bi woman and for the most of my life I thought as an incel! I had severe depression and suicide attempts because I thought no one loved me, not even my family. Today I can realize it's because of mental illness and childhood trauma, but seeing this video and all those people who really view life in that perspective... makes me so grateful that I got help.
Jesus Christ, did you get the voice actor of Daniel from Camp Camp to do your incel voices??
This video is great but it also like.... scares me and horrifies me to the core and makes me feel unsafe.
Never knew about you, glad I found this video between the algorithms YouTube thought suited me! Loved all of it and right now I'm planning a bingewatch session!!!
big brain: incels are just genderbent yanderes
ur a nice person
The entire aesthetic of this channel reminds me heavily of Nerd City's videos
There are two kinds of literature tropes for describing villains in relation to the also famous trope the power of friendship, at the of one spectrum there is the man in denial, he does not understand collaboration and he mocks the hero for it, there is also the vallain who finds the hero's relationships with the secondary characters pretty interesting and is curious about it, sometimes exploiting it, you remind a lot of the second type. I actually love you haha
33:46 this part feels like a mindfulness excercise
I’m glad they didn’t have internet when I was in my teens. I didn’t get much until my 20s and all the incel talk might have really got me down. I’m admittedly not all that attractive and I have an abrasive personality to boot. Despite that, I learned that it’s not too hard to get laid and/or have good relationships with women. Both my present and first wives are beautiful women, and I’ve had girlfriends and a few one-night stands with fashion model level women.   It’s not hard to get a girl if you just try.  That incel shooter Eliot Rodger was a decent looking guy. He was much better looking than I was at his age. I think the Internet can reinforce destructive ideas too easily.
I do like summer rainstorms, but the smell is really bad
This is my first Contrapoint and I really appreciate her analysis.
You are absolutely amazing. Please keep going forevah!
Dude!   You will always be a 'dude' to me, sorry about that, lol, but I AM genuinely impressed by your thoughts here. Very, very insightful. I can relate to a whole truckload of stuff you say here; almost as if I myself said them.
*BREAD SCIENTIST* XD you’re killing me stop XD
I just found your channel after having one of your videos show up in my recommended queue. I'm really glad I clicked. Your videos are well-written, well-produced and quite fascinating. I follow a fairly wide spectrum of social politics content creators (from TJ Kirk to H.bomberguy) and you land right in my weird little centrist wheelhouse. I'm subbed.
I have a great answer if I'm asked if I have a dick.  I say "No, do you?"   Its great because it pisses off nosy asshole men as well as women.  Just glad nobody has asked in a long time.   Sigh... You look better pre facial feminzation than I look after.  :/
im just really into trains
This was amazing. God damn it you do amazing work.
I think you get it you should write a book.
Did I hear you say you were teenage in 1975? Holy shit I thought you were like 30, congrats!
Just wanted to say: I like the appearances of many men in dresses.
I'm a #3 and couldn't be happier
This is the first of your videos I’ve seen and I am INSTANTLY hooked. Wonderful job babe💕  No excuse me while I binge your channel due to “just had baby number two” insomnia 😂
I so want to get drunk with you.
What is up with all this erotic ocean talk? Strangely enticing.
What I dont get about incels is that instead of using their negative self image as motivation to improve themselves and their lives outside of sex and relationships with women they grovel in their own self-loathing
Sorry I won't sympathize with those loser's at all. If you are a dude and you can't get a girl friend or even get laid you are a loser, plain and simple. I had a best friend 320 lbs. fat as fuck but he was still getting more gfs and hooking up with random girls than i was back in high school and into our 20's. He had personality and charisma. If you are striking out consistently your problem is  1.) you need to lower standards- if you don't have money and you trying to get that materialistic girl who loves party it ain't ever gonna happen. 2.) if your only hobbies are video's games and chronic masturbation there is a good chance you are going to be single for a long time in which case might as get comfortable paying for prostitutes once in a while. 3.) finally recognize that the world doesn't revolve around you. Girls and women are not possessions or prizes they are thinking, feeling human beings just like you. 4.) Just because you have a dick between your legs you are not automatically owed sex. In fact you probably have a dick inside your head too in which case one of them as to go.
I have the feeling that the real problem is that many man just dont know enough women. In our society (Talking german perspective here) familys get smaller and smaller. Community activitys that have no big gender descrepancy are very rare. I can see myselfe buying a bit into the narrative of being insufficent genetically (cause i have massive auto immun caused skin problems) if i wasnt sourounded by women my entire life. Its realy easy to build anxiety for a world unknown... i think this is deeply problematic and cant realy be fixed by simply telling them "its fine... just go into the unknown and hope for the best!" I can understand that for many guys "laying down and rot" is a more attractive option then facing your fears and being rejected (and they will be rejected cause Relationships are harder to form when your inexperienced in bulding them in the first place). I cant realy imagine that you would be able to think like this if you knew enough of women. This is the place where i think fighting against Gender Disparity or finding activities where both genders can flourish more equally will have a realy big impact(All Incels should be feminists confirmed!).   What i dont get at all is what gave them their idea of things getting worse... you dont need to be a history buff to see how freaking terrible things where back in the day for love. Most relationships where formed out of pure necessity and not love...  (we even had some crazy profs that argued that love as we know it is an invention of the 18th century.) You could say atleast you get laid in such a relationship... and no you arent realy... cause there is neither longing nor love involved in most cases. imagine how much fun you can have like this? What you say that would be enough for you? Buy a freaking sex doll... wtf... if you dont want that.. put some freaking effort in your self stimulation? If the fantasy of fucking someone with no love or longing involved is somehow appealing either your fapping or the porn you consume must be realy shitty.   I dont think theyve read attractedness research either. Cause in there woman desire is framed as a freaking chaotic mystery with not even semi replicateable stuff by people who are working on this problem for 30+ years. Beginning with Freud to today. Even if you only take face attractiveness wich is as you described very limited... there are so many factors other then bone structure in face attractiveness.  https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3130383/ (pretty interesting). I think such misinformation is fueled by newspaper headlines saying stuff like "New study proves that stacys exists!" where the headline should be "New study found that stacyness could be a factor out of many with a debatable correlation"   But enough rambling... like you said you prob wont get far with logic but i dont think you will get far with "shocktheraphy" either. So we should definitely vote for smash!
Isn't that Big Sur?
For all incels, instead of wondering about your bone girth. Here is a thought. Maybe it’s your shitty way of perceiving the world around you is the reason you’re lonely :D weird I know!
I found you by accident, best accident ever XD
WOW Misogynists have their own little club. Who new.
Does anyone remember Chris Korda and the Church of Euthanasia? She seems so advanced now...
You're a Transtacy LOL
This is a a great video, I had no idea about this stuff.  Keep making videos! You got a new fan. Much love. Let’s do K sometime.
I really need to get a life like plastic human skull
WTF, playing the victim much? What a garbage narrative.
I'd be curious to know the percentage of Incels that have younger sisters. How can you think of woman in this way when you see one grow up from innocent baby into beautiful independent creature?????? PS don't blame women if your ugly ass aint hitting no skins
Another first time viewer here, and bitch I love you. This is funny and intelligent and just btw (not that these things matter at all and I don’t even know if it’s my place to make this comment as a cis woman) but I total did not even realise you were trans until you mentioned it xxxx
Remarkable. Got here from the New Yorker profile. I learned so much from this video.
That baking bread guy made me laugh my ass off XD  But for reals tho this was such a good video, this is the first video of yours that I’ve seen and you’re already like of my favorite youtubers now
This is the first video of yours that I’m watching and I already love your content
Not only incels should be mocked but they should be beat up on a regular basis
At least they don't have to imagine women bitching about stupid shit like shoes in the house and eating in the room
So I definitely see good points in the blue and red pills but no points in the black pill are ok if you believe in that get help.
Yeah, I’ve kinda catastrophized about that before...not nearly as much as before though
Channels like this and Nerdcity give me hope for Youtube's future. <3
This video is a cracking one! I’ve only just found you but I’ll defo be watching more
dating as a trans lesbian is such an annoyance. i empathize so much
You honestly made me laugh out loud a couple of times
I was convinced things couldn't become more pitiful than MGTOW. I was wrong.
I might COOK but PLEASE DONT THINK THAT MEANS I LIKE A PENIS IN MY RECTUM! I can see how someone could confuse cooking with fucking the same sex. Making lasagna is SUPER similar to fucking a mans butt!
Hilarious yet sad...  I can't believe some people self-sabotage so hard. EDIT:   Oops.. I do it too..  :(
_Data_ from an  incels.me  self-survey of incels,  plus commentary  https://youtu.be/AI6cfwiR2L4 One telling point from early in the video: the largest proportion of respondents were 18-21,  which is an unfortunately young age to be giving up on improving yourself.
She's fantastic. "Boys, you can pound my fuck hole so, so hard; but just be patient, I need to cut my dick off first". And "I probably would have let him sniff my panties, but that's for the 3rd date. I just need to make sure that you're not going to murder me first". That's a dope level of open sexual humor. Well done
"What I'm suggesting is: the manosphere exists because rock and roll is dead." <3
I LOVE YOU, I'M GONNA COMPELL EVERYBODY AROUND ME TO WATCH YOUR VIDEOS FOR HOURS, I'M FUCKING IN LOVE WITH YOU, WOW
I know you probably get this a lot but you’re beautiful, smart and funny.  Keep doing your thang.
fucking rofl, these are nuclear memes <3
Lombroso was a psychiatrist in the 1900 that connected certain physiognomies and skull features with mental disorders and low cognitive functions, so this goes a long way in the past.
ok, i have no idea what it’s like to have gender dysphoria or to be a trans women so i hope i’m not undervaluing your concerns- but it must be said that you have a beautiful face and you do look extremely feminine if that’s what you’re worried about. ur gr8t :)
Instant subscription!!
This has been in my recs for about a month and then its a tranny talking for a half hour (references were good) but jfc dude
I'd smash your fuck holes. But be a gentleman first and take you to coffee.
Needless to say that this video is phenomenal. Beautifully scripted and engaging. I don't know how you are so eloquent. Queen queen queen queen queen.
the - if you noticed the problematic thing - graphic  Pure Python - applause.
Your video is so great and you are so beautiful !
I like both you and Jordan Peterson.
That powdered wig was on point. Fucking love you contra. Your a dope role model
I hope you tell the men that you are trans. It's important.
This video is great!
When I grow up I want to be a bread scientist.
This was brilliant. Thanks for summarizing this, and in such a personal way. Bravo.
Thanks for doing the work.
W E   L I V E  IN  A  S O C I E T Y
A million+ views nice
Your necklace is beautiful
this kind of men want to use women to masturbate they don't wanna be loved by them, they don't wanna be in love, we are just objects to them
Love this, love the use of Mendelssohn at the end ♥️ thank you for the video
thanks Youtube and your algorithm, I would've never found your channel otherwise.  You are undeniably intelligent and I love your ideas, as well as your delivery.  10/10 subbed
I thought this was just going to be a shit on incels but bravo.
hmmm... Incels sound insane... i don't get laid much myself but that's mostly because i can be bothered to actually be in a relationship and i suspect it would be a cruel and unusual punishment to subject others to me a relationship with me....  Unless if find a girl as obsessed with innumerable side project in programming, Blacksmithing, welding, Electronics, sewing, leather crafting and poetry as me i'm unlikely to find anyone compatible... (basically i am almost entirely dedicated to creativity and anyone in a relationship with me would most likely be a 3rd wheel)  So i just grab any cheap thrill when ever i get the opportunity... gender not to important :p  Long term this may end up sucking though as i worry about growing old alone... but i am getting into machine learning... i'll just create a sentient AI companion who works for me... problem solved.  (currently training image recognition based on Latex Vs non-latex porn (the stupid cats and dogs image dataset was not accessible so i improvised with what i had squirled away lol X3)  I label myself more of a Opportunistic omnivore and frankly i get laid enough that i don't think i count as an incel... though just barely :p
Damn! what a great channel!!!   Is there a limit of bingewatching before I start questioning my manhood?
Refreshing video :-). thanks!
Suicidal ideation is common among incels? Not common enough, I say. EDIT: I posted that comment at about minute 13. Then I continued to watch, and it stopped being funny. I wouldn't mock someone with a physical illness, so I shouldn't mock someone with a mental illness. Ugh. Now I have to at least try to make an attempt to understand these losers...  :/
lmao  Hyper masculine bread scientist
To quote Norm MacDonald, nothing looks dumber than if you parody self-parody.
im hetero and you're hot as fuck
just when you thought phrenology wen´t the way f the dinosaurs
"I'm baking my own bread. I am not a woman." Fucking lmao, how much more confidence can you have in your masculinity. Needs more beard.
nothing incels say is wrong
It’s really sad so many people think this way
Lolz.  I'm glad you like being a woman. Is it easier to approach and pick up someone you are attracted to as a woman?
"The manosphere exists because rock and roll is dead" you might have been joking, but i seriously agree.  your attitude and manner of speech kind of reminds me of hedwig. hope you don't mind the comparison, i adore hedwig 😅  Its one of my fav movies. being a straight guy, hedwig and the angry inch really illuminated some (i dare say) profound truths of identity and love. I recommend it greatly to anyone who hasn't seen it.   super happy youtube popped this channel up. peace
Love your channel, you're beautiful
17:20 gets soooooo fucking real and funny. your grace, epic.
I'll be honest, i clicked because you looked hot in the thumbnail. I was pleasantly surprised by the quality of the content.
On the 4th point, I do remember going on r/incels before it got banned to really see what was going on with my own two eyes. Some of the guys there had posted a pic of them and were all going full black pill on themselves and, as a woman who's considered attractive irl, I felt really bad for them because they were _at worst_ perfectly normal dudes who were so deep into their own misery and helplessness they'd stopped seeing the good things they had going for them. I remember vividly one them leaving me especially confused because by my standards he was pretty damn cute and good looking.   I think I strongly empathized with them because I'm an Aspie diagnosed _as an adult_ so I grew up... Lacking some healthy mechanisms, and lack any teen without an ounce of self-confidence, I felt like an Ugly Duckling for years. Shit, even two years after I started getting proper psychological help on a weekly basis, and nearly two years after I got my diagnosis for Asperger (with the classic depression/social anxiety combo because where is the fun otherwise, right?), I only recently started to fully accept myself as I am. And even then, at 26 yo I'm still not capable to date because I still struggle a lot with feelings and how to identify them (I can't even read facial expressions properly so I'm not really living on Easy Mode), I'm still extremely distrustful of others because of horrible past experiences, and the idea of letting someone when you're seriously closed-off is terrifying, let's be honest here.  Which brings me to my point: if these people started opening their eyes and work on that whole creepy and unhealthy state of mind that's slowly destroying them, maybe they'd get better. It'd be hard and long and painful, but they'd probably feel better in the long run. However, taking that first step of recognising that something is wrong with you and you need help to change and turn your life around is very difficult and requires a bravery not everybody has imo.   And yeah, having been on OkCupid and having talked with guyfriends who are also on it... I'd rather have some degree of attention than complete silence. Even though I quit OkCupid because that type of stuff is too tiring and time-consuming for me anyway.
Thanks! Awesome video! I feel nauseous.
2 things: - Firstly, this video is incredible. I have just found a psychological diamond in amongst all the psychological quartz that exists on YouTube. Thanks for being highly insightful as well as entertaining. - Secondly, if the LBGT forum on 4chan is actually TTTT, can we call it 4tran from now on? ...I'll see myself out.  Oh, wait. One more thing... Foppington's Law was brilliant. For those reading this that don't get it, look up "Phrenology" and "Eugenics".
I'll also (knock on wood) never know what it feels like to "squeeze life out of [my] sacred passage." Because I'm the ace of spades, beeches.  I mean, considering all of the pregnancy/labor nightmares I've had since I could menstruate, I didn't have much of a choice in being asexual. It narrowed my options, at the very least. Lol  GOOD SHOW, Natalie. Keep on bamfing.
Holy crap. Humans don't deserve to exist.
I wonder what Sandman would think of this video...
Very important video. Irrelevant sidenote: I thought it was Tina Fey on the thumbnail.
Happy Thanksgiving!  I’m thankful I’ve found your channel!
I thought I was going to watch a Youtube video, but I ended up watching a film.
Need to know how she gets this red mood lighting
Volcel if you wouldn’t!!!lol
My first time watching a video from this channel. Hm. Interesting.
first time on this channel.   you are hilarious.   I wish you well.
People generally confuse and terrify me, but you are so cool.
"THE INHERENT EROTICISM OF THE SEA"  Ohh god yes.
Wow, I think... I think I'm in love with the sea now?
fucking hell
fuck you chadsplainer. You dont know what its like
Well I’m in love with a channel again
This is my first video watching you and I had NO idea you were once a man. You more than pass...
amazing video <3
Why am I turned on now.
THE SEA: It just makes us so... wet.
Skull bread tastes great.
If you didn't talk about it I seriously wouldn't know. You're seriously beautiful
Wow, I just found this channel and I love your video style! Super interesting, informational and entertaining
JESUS CHRIST, are you speaking at the top of your register? I just got here from youtube suggestions which I trust they've given me because of Blaire White. Hey YOUTUBE, just because I may like one transsexual doesn't mean I like all of them or even others.
Ahhh, the TTTT bit made me really sad, that some are dealing with this feedback :(
I'm in love with the way that room is decorated
I have needed your videos so much for so long.  My neighbors must think I am drunk due to my loud, appreciative guffawing!
Love what you've done with the place darling!
The reason I used to cut and I know this isn't the same for some other people is it because makes you feel in control It's A coping mechanism accept it is damaging to your body.
15:42 WTF is with that goddamn photoshop, I almost scratched my eyes out.
You do look great. And your videos are awesome.  Very insightful and wonderfully analytical. I'm straight cis and really wouldn't feel comfortable dating a trans woman (in other words I'm pretty straight in every sense).  I'm not saying this to be PC or cheerlead or anything: You are legitimately a very attractive woman in my eyes.  Please keep up the great work with your videos.  I really appreciate you integrating your personal experiences with the objective analysis (e.g., historical, philosophical).  And the humor, style and editing of course.  I hope you get more and more subscribers because your work is very valuable IMO.
Dear women, please continue to not have sex with small weird looking guys. We have screwed up the gene pool bad enough.
I've avoided watching this channel because I knew the topics would make me depressed, but I HAD to watch this one (it's educational!) and now the rest of my day will be spent watching the entire back catalogue of Contrapoints...
"What I'm suggesting is the Manosphere exists because rock'n'roll is dead." So fucking good. Every one of your videos is perfection, Natalie. I was so happy to see the fantastic exposé on you in The New Yorker.
Dammit... I never knew how attracted I am to the sea. Time to show all these land-lubbers what true love is!
Honestly, if these people could un-breed themselves out of existence... I'll take a couple of years of poo-pooing that will be relegated to some baron corner of the Wayback Machine.
*_take me mommy_*
you're funny
Girl be flawless
You are my new obsession and also the most gorgeous being I have seen on the internet in a WHILE
I Am Ultra Masculine *As you can see* "enjoy your life as a bread scientist"
"we're drowning in dick, and most of it is terrible." PREACH
Consider me subscribed.
In spanish "Pan" means bread     In spanish "Panucha" is slang for pussy, but its usually shorted down to just "Pan".  So this man who bakes bread should love eating bread 😉 therefore hes a chad
Incels are incels. PUA's, MGTOW's and MRA's  are not Incels. If you are going to use terminology try learning the terminology.
When mother contra points and daddy Peterson agree on something you know those people are retarded.
WTF with the baker thing if anything being a chef is masculine and when i think of bread bakers i think of strong buff dudes.
Wait is this a real woman?
I don't think its cool to clown or demonize people who is on the edge of the cliff.
Okay but you toTALLY passed for me ♥ Jfc you look gorgeous
love you so much and so sorry you grew up on 4chan :/
I gotta agree on the final conclusion here. Ultimately incels issue has nothing to do with getting, or not getting laid. That is merely an attempt at self diagnosis. These are people suffering from various degrees of mental illness. And the solution has to be, was brilliantly pointed out, a therapeutic one, not a logical one.
Are u a incel tranny?
Quality content 👏👏👏
Wait, what?
Something I find very interesting is that the author of The Game (Neil Strauss) has another book, released afterwards, called The Truth. It basically details how he had a sex addiction and what he wrote in The Game not only was unhealthy to everyone around him, but ultimately himself as well when his addiction to sex puts a relationship he REALLY cares about in serious jeopardy. It's a fantastic book, I've never read The Game, but I'd recommend almost anyone The Truth.
Wtf? Wristcel? I have amazingly delicate wrists but I get some. What kind of fucking excuse is that? SMGDH
SLIDE IT IN AND SLIDE IT OUT
What I learned: Anytime I think of the ocean I'm now going to imagine it being incestuous.
Says she won't mock them, makes a whole video mocking them. Still an amazingly funny and informative video, that made me laugh a bit
Really well done and funny.  Great job!
Chadpret? God these Incels are pathetic
There is at least one woman who is annoyed by humans born biologically as men deciding to live as women.  It makes gender seem like cosplay and acting.  What have you noticed about this please, Ms. Wynn?
While I can relate to a lot of what these men and youth feel I could never and will never identify with the Incel mindset.   Understanding and feeling empathy for the root causes of the mindset and feeling the same way about life, the world and women are opposite ends of the universe for me.  I've always been more in touch with my feminine side ever since I was a child. I was always more interested in co-operation over competition. To this day I'm not interested in multiplayer in video games or sports.  I was bullied in school because I never fit in with the only definition of masculinity that the boys at my school knew. I started puberty late and everyone thought I shaved my legs coz I'm blonde and the little hair that there is isn't very visible.  Children and teens without the proper guidance will bully another child for anything they *perceive* in their limited worldview to be different.  They also thought I was gay because I never had a girlfriend while never once considering that their bullying of me ostracized me from their group and so made me invisible to the girls in our year.  If I was at school now with social media sites like Facebook, Twitter & Reddit I can see how I could easily go down any number of rabbit holes that would lead to any number of disastrous conclusions about who I am and what I am worth. Especially with my Aspergers and how easily I believed anything I was told when I was younger. I had no bullshit detector.  It's not enjoyable to research this stuff but parents, teachers, aunts and uncles and older brothers and sisters should all be aware of what is out there. Forewarned is forearmed.
can you imagine the absurdity of being so utterly incapable of having sex (in an era where sex work is becoming increasingly unstigmatised and safe) and craving it so much that you become all twisted and hateful against women, only to remain forever far from the simple truth: it's not what you're glorifying it to be. a positive sex life takes work, partners take work, relationships take work, and in the end no one can ever love you or want you in the way that you want them to anyway. these types will never know how what they pine so hopelessly for is just an idealistic mirage.
Omfg where have you been all my life?! Starts mega serious and now we are panty sniffing 😂😂😂 omfg you're amazing
12:11 This man radiates fragile masculinity. "I like to cook, but my beard says I am nothing but 100% man"
Is that IHE doin the British voice? Haha
Olly Thorn reads those Incel posts like horror short stories from The Magnus Archives
The virgin walk vs the chad stride cracked me up.
Everyone knows to bake, butt plugs are required.
Man, I really want to fuck that rainstorm.
omg this start was so uncomfortable.......
Heads up. This is the first video of yours I watched, and I legit 100% didn't know you were trans till you said you were. You're beautiful love.
I just witnessed art
Interestingly in a study of attraction smell was a higher factor that appearance
Hey Ms Wynn, first time watcher here. At first I found this video deeply uncomfortable to watch because of the subject matter, but your eloquent delivery alongside the high production values made for utterly compelling viewing. Thank you for helping educate me about a topic I have previously found too repugnant to attempt to understand.
The Red Pill goes deeper than its connections to incels. You will find it is connected to nazi belief systems as well if you search image boards like 4chan. There, "redpilled" means believing that the jews are behind everything and that there is a war on white people, among other beliefs.
I love contrapoints, she is the goddess of philosophy
uhh and for the record you look pretty good. i still had an inkling that you were trans but i wasn't sure. and i'm not the type to butter people up.
It took all of four minutes to get that the narrator does NOT "just want to understand" these guys.  Hit piece. And possibly deserved. But a hit piece, and delivered in such a cloying and supercilious manner that to continue would be unbearable. YMMV.
[Melancholic Chill Jazz] Yo but where can I download more?
So I’m not not getting laid... I’m just involuntarily celibate? Seems legit.
I was playing my guitar the whole video :/
This just got me to subscribe.  Also, I don't understand the wrist thing. It's literally the stupidest thing to be insecure about.
also this vid was really really great!!
2500! holy shit.
Love Her <3 <3 <3 <3 <3
I've never been able to take incels seriously purely because I've somehow managed to have multiple relationships, some good and some not so good, ended up married, have a kid, and overall I have a pretty healthy relationship with my partner. I also treat her like an independent human being, so maybe that's the trick.
Girl, are you really from Baltimore?! I love your videos that much more!
So its a eugene got it!!
I just found this channel on a recommendation - damn - I think I'm in love with this channel!
Oh, my new friend, thank you so much for taking such a topic so seriously.  It will have made so many confused and foolish young men happier about their eventual love life.
Congrats on a brilliant video.
men who worry about thin bones and cranial structures could be seen as being similar to women who worry about having small breasts and hips without curve.
I could of gone my whole life without that opening reading.
I didn't have much knowledge about the incel community but damn I find that I kind of relate to the sympathetic stuff about the loneliness and depression leading them to think of themselves to be inferior and hence unworthy of companionship and love. The hateful part is just awful. I do agree about the online dating part which is based totally on superficial qualities. Btw I'm a 25 yo guy who's had just one gf before but didn't seal the deal ;). Lol, I feel lonely but who blames society and people for everything wrong with one's life unless you're just hopeless and want to blame everything on others due to a fucked up thinking pattern.
You know usually I would meme the shit out these people, but I just feel bad for them.
Gods, I want a corndog now
stumbled across this channel and. jesus christ youre great  this channel is what youtube needs tbh
You're quite a lovely lady if you were a teenager in 75. It explains why you seem as wise as you are.
I usually have the attention span of a goldfish on drugs, and never watch a video for more than 3 minutes at a time. You talk in a way so captivating that I watched all vid in one go.
omg i’m obsessed thank u chapo
$5 dollar backpack
*Abigail, leave my  f u c k h o l e  office.*
Takes an outsider to truly understand another outsider. Appreciated. 🤘
theres no way I can like this MORE
this was so fucking funny 11/10!!!
Just watched for the first time and my god you’re so beautiful!
This was incredibly well put together.
Appreciate the insight on incels, thank you.
Wow!!! Amazing video!
Yes, take a big shit on people suffering and hurting because they were ostracized by society.  So tell me again, why should I give a shit about transpeople if we no longer have sympathy as a society for people who are cast out from society?
very interesting speculations, thanks for breaking this down
The people that create Law And Order SVU should’ve watched this video before making their episode on incels. This wouldve saved the show, from worsening
Contra Points - You are the great prophet Tiresias of our age!  Blessings on you!
I just read an article about you in the NYT.  You are fantastic!
You are beautiful, and I wasn't sure you were trans until you disclosed it.
Do people really use phrenology to justify not getting laid?
go vegan
Came for the politics, stayed for the possibly intentional ASMR triggering at 6:30
Gawd I love it. This is your best video. Watched it a few times already.
I think your style is very beautiful
Yeah because men definitely don’t seek  women who are more attractive than themselves lmao
you have. literally just become my 100% favorite youtuber ever. thank you so much for all your hard work on these videos!!!!!!! <333
So many comments laughing at incels Most didn't make it to the middle of the video. How do you expect people to try to understand you when you don't try to understand them?
Oh my god, I knew exactly nothing about Incel culture before and now it somehow makes even less sense.
2018 feels like it has been a terrible year for progress as a human species.  In America, we're trying so hard to reverse the damage of idiocy that we can't even begin to address where to go next.  This video has been the first piece of media or conversation all year that gave me faith that people really are looking for what's next.  This challenged me to learn something about people I didn't know before, and it showed me that someone (you) is caring and smart enough to bring up what's next for us as a society.  This video was brilliant and informative.  Thank you
A far more academic, well researched treatment of a bunch of self made losers with few redeeming traits. Mission accomplished?  To be clear I thought this was a great video, even if I have no sympathy for the subject matter.
"I can't speak for other women" Yeah, because you aren't one. It isn't something you can just become. Your ignorance disgusts me
What a great video. It took me back cause I also was bullied and rejected and took on hating women for no apparent reason. I'm glad I realize my stupidity on time, and you are totally on point in the fact the best way to start regaining your mental heatlh is stop reading all this social media and not visiting imageboards whatsoever, it's the best for the mental health.  Love your style, you won a new suscriber, keep being gorgeous.
I just want to say you look absolutely beautiful! You look like a model!
Excellent video, but ROCK N’ ROLL IS NOT FUCKING DEAD YOU INSUFFERABLE NITWIT! Still, excellent video. Have a nice day.
And then you have people like James Marshall a.k.a. feminist pick up artists with a soul who cluck there tongues and sigh sadly at these dudes.
4 0 4 :  C H I N   N O T  F O U N D
Welp, I guess I'm glad I'm gay
Oh my goodness. You are blowing my mind. I adore this video. I've only seen this one from you and it was so beautifully created. I LOVE YOU! I can't even explain how much you just inspired me. <3
Thank you Skull-people
Absolutely Degenerate.
Awesome vid. Is there any info on how many incels there actually are? Seems like a hard number to et but i'm curious.
The 80/20 rule is technically true. But most people forget just how complex society is. Just how many hierarchies you can get involved in. Just how many variables truly matter to people. There are so many people that finding another who believes that two loving parents raise the best kids, and have the principles to fulfill that belief, are easy to come by.
Started this video thinking; wow this hot chick is hot AND funny!  No way!  ....Fooled again, they don't exist.  But on another note, I think your transition is going great.
Chapo brought me here. Eroticism of the Sea earned my sub!
This was a surprisingly even-tempered and compassionate take. I'm impressed.
A roastie? Are they fucking serious? That is so bizarre and stupid and gross, jfc
Forming an identity around not getting laid is sort of counter-productive if you want to get laid. Becoming an incel seems sort of like falling to the Dark Side, bitching and moaning about your lot in life until bitterness, hatred and loathing is the only thing that sustains you, and you want to take it out on all the Jedi, I mean Chads, that you feel are responsible. If you want to get laid, but can't, you must either improve yourself or lower your standards. Getting laid is easy, getting laid by a woman that knows she can do better than some guy that thinks of her as subhuman is not.
wow, you really like water
you should write a book
I know through personal experience that, when depressed, the worst thing to do is to interact with other people that are depressed. It's only a spiral to your own (and the other's) end. It is however, as pointed out in the video, very satisfying to indulge in self harm when in an extreme mind set, and the easiest way to indulge in that is through self-pitying and self-humiliation. Combine that with interacting with other people in that mind set, and you get incel, anorexic, bulimic, tttt's, (...) communities, that unfortunately, if left alone, will cause suicide or mass-murders (hatred-filled suicide attempts).  So if you're, or you think you might be, in some stage of depression, please make the internal effort of analyzing whether you are indulging in self harm, and by any means that you can, try to avoid it the moment you notice it. Do you catch yourself writing a negative comment that you can't quite describe why you're writing in the first place? Do you get to a point, while arguing with someone, where you don't even know why all started? Do yo antagonize someone not being able to describe why? Take a pause, leave the phone/pc/whatever you're doing, do something else, come back with a clearer mind. It is difficult; it is way easier to just indulge in self-hatred, I know. Health is difficult, but it's worth achieving. Take care.
incel ideology is toxic as hell, but the memes they make make me laugh so much I must admit
I was watching a video about Overwatch and accidentally clicked this video trying to scroll down to the comments...why youtube? why?
19:11 ........... I’m dead, thanks.
came to your channel from the chapo episode-- love your work!
Article made me check the incel video out. “I don’t plan on squeezing the life out of my fuckhole unless something goes terribly wrong” spittake of hot coffee all over myself.
I cannot believe that this is a thing... like I thought this was a joke but it’s not lmao. How pathetic has the human race gotten?
Holy crap, one of the girls I bullied on /mtfg/ made a 35 minute video about it
Chapo led me here and gee wow did it not disappoint
Seen this video around, never clicked it. Listened to the chapo podcast you were in and I finally gave it a go. And you're right. This uniqueness and originality alone can have me sit through long ass vids without getting bored. Another bonus is all your jokes are funny, not one of them misses. It's amazing. Keep doing what you do.
Wow.
tAkE a ShoWeR brOo
As much as I dislike incel ideology and know its believers pose a violent threat to people like me, the sections of this video which focus on the vicious cycle of negative reinforcement, the cult of despair, brainwashing techniques and digital self-harm mechanism were genuinely eye-opening. I feel like I now have a better understanding of how seemingly normal guys get pulled into this mindset. It also gives me some hope that people can pull themselves out of it again. It seems almost like a form of mass hysteria instigated by a few genuinely twisted individuals and compounded by the mechanisms of social media, until it spiralled into the situation we see today.  Thank you for taking the time to research this issue and present it with a unique mix of objectivity, empathy and humour. I hope this video makes a difference for some people!
This rules
I don't normally watch such long videos, but oh my god you had me hooked the whole way through. New sub!! Love your delivery and the way you articulate your points.
I couldn't watch this, not because of the ContraPoints content, but because the Incel BS made me sick to watch.
As a (convincing) gay crossdressing male, the whole Tinder thing is complete bull. Gay guys don't want me, so I go on straight Tinder and get the results of a woman on Tinder. I have mad respect for trans chicks and even cis chicks who decide to use that hell app.
Okay I didn't know you are trans for half of the video, and thought you have a beautiful, female if deep voice. I didn't even know you could change your voice that much! Also this video killed me, especially the skull shape parts. These were so good with the old timey English. Being entertaining for half an hour is not easy but you did it.
Woah that chick used to be a guy? I totally would not have been able to pick it until she pointed it out. That means it's a transition that is succeeding and that's great. This was a well made video. I've only heard of incels since they started getting in the news for terrorist attacks and all the videos I've seen about them basically describe them as a toxic online community of guys who can't get laid and end up in a very unhealthy headspace which covers the general idea. But this video gave a more nuanced look into this community, one that gave a more detailed snapshot into what makes them tick and to make them more relatable while not letting them off the hook for the shitty things they believe and say.   I hope thatas many incels see this video as possible because it could potentially help them to see past their anguish and make them aware of  the unhealthy mindset they are in if they have swallowed the black pill.
This was great! Those guys are such nutters...glad I found your channel 😊 Edit to add I just got to the part where you said you were trans. Well girlfriend you look great I had no idea
I think the problem with Incels and MGTOW is that both have their roots (pardon the pun) in 'reasonable thought'.  I, myself, have gone though a long LONG time of involuntary celibacy, and it is painful.  I am also now (after being quite badly treated by women) 'cured' of my desire for sexual contact with women, so 'sympathise' with MGTOW, in that I have no desire to form a lasting relationship, and probably wont for the rest of my life.  The trouble is, that like many social 'clubs' that come about they have their roots (again pardon the pun) in reasonable thought they excuse their state on others, rather than themselves.  It's ok to be a person who desires sex but not get it (thus involuntarily being celibate).  Nearly every man between the age of 14 and 50 who isn't actually engaging in intercourse is involuntarily celibate.  It's ok to be a man who has decided that relationships aren't worth their effort, and go about life not trying to find one.  It's NOT ok to be misogynistic because of your lifestyle choices.  Makes me mad.  BTW - I think you are quite beautiful.
Also, incels should just go on /fit and only look at the SIG threads. Better yourself before criticising others
"*wrist*cels, on the other *hand*" well-played, Natalie, well-played.
Chads of color.... first person I thought of was idris Elba I’ll be real 😂
I've always found it scary how easy it is for me to understand how incels feel. It's rough out there, and it's all-too-easy to focus on something else rather than blame yourself for yet another failure. I believe that a lot of these incels are hurt. And I believe this because I know what repeat rejection and failure can do to your mind. Once you start losing hope it becomes very easy to shut out positive feedback, and getting that hope back becomes harder and harder.  I'm not saying that I condone abusive or hateful behavior. Just asking to keep in mind that incels are human too, and that closing off all support for them can be just as destructive as the community itself.
Honestly, its all cool to criticise incels and all that shit, but a life of rejection and loneliness will do things to you. No matter who you are.
1975?! Your older than me?! I both want to be you and do ya ... ugh, is that what the incels say? ... I don't know ... ignore me, I've had a few brandies at this point ... seriously, though plan to look you up on tinder
Here because of chapo
I couldn't even tell she was a man at one point, shes beautiful! I'd Fuck her Fuck hole 😂 jk but shes beautiful
We should hella bone.
I love you
This is the first video I've watched from you and I subscribed within the first 5 minutes of this video. This is so well made and I genuinely had no clue to what an incel truly was, but now I'm enlightened. You are so smart and charming!
Your voice is very nice and great to listen to imo.
I cried at the terf I'm dyingggg
You are so pretty! <3
i love rifling through my purse re-doing my makeup talking about Paris Hilton on my phone while crying
I don't know what this is nor how I got here but I clicked because it looked pretty and I love it.  Edit: So I finished watching this video and loved every minute of it. I knew that men can be horrible but I never knew it was this bad. Like what is their issue because it isn't women's fault that you can't get laid.  Also I had no idea you where a trans-woman until you brought it up. You are beautiful. Also I want your sparkle shirt.
“If it means you leave women alone, I hope you enjoy your new life as an ultra-masculine baker”   I love you lots
Subfuckingscribed
Slow...……………….clap.
This was amazing, super intelligent and empathetic
You are a brave woman, you who would gaze into the abyss.
Imagine hating yourself enough to call yourself a "BrEaD ScIenTiSt" does he have that type of insecure melt down during grocery shopping? Or when he does laundry???
Never seen any of your videos before. I had no idea you were trans until you said it.
Your channel is amazing. I love your ability to teach while maintaining humor and empathy all at once. You have a gift. And while it's not relevant in any way whatsoever, you are also quite astoundingly beautiful. I could listen to you speak for hours, and enjoy both the lesson and the view. Thank you for sharing your experience so that a dumbo like me can learn wtf is going on.
It's interesting that a common thread between Incels and TTTT, as well as, like, thinspo / eating disorder forums (and I'm sure there are many more examples), is that we really aren't good, as humans, at seeing ourselves the way we actually are, so we try to get other people to tell us but it's impossible, in many ways, to actually get validation from other people that you can trust, especially if you're unwilling (or unable) to see yourself in a positive light.   For what it's worth, I think you're gorgeous on the outside but your most striking beauty - (and you're also strikingly beautiful physically, let there be no mistake) - is your brain. I hope you end up in history textbooks, like. You're. It's. You should be. Have. A statue. I'm struggling to even express in words and self-conscious that I sound like a kiss-ass but you probably already heard this a million times so I will just. Leave it at that. Until next time I get too drunk to contain myself.
Normal brain: this is such a great, clever video! I love all of the points she made.  Lesbian brain: hehe girl pretty
BREAD SCIENTIST IM HOWLING god these men need to get a therapist
THE FUCKING ASMR PART.  I'll go soon, I promise.
I WOULD LIKE AT LEAST TEN T-SHIRTS TO COME FROM THIS VIDEO ALONE
YOU DON'T OPEN ON PANTY SNIFFING
Oh. My god. Every minute of this is perfect.
You sound like a guy.
"Leave my buns alone, you savages" might be my favorite line in a YT video ever.
I cant bring myself to totally despise this guys. I mean, a lot of them have never experienced any kind of care, love, affection or closeness in their lives. A lot of them are horribly lonely  and isolated, all this either because some sort of mental illness, or just classical social incompetence. You know the kind of things that sort of lifestyle does to a person's mind? No wonder they come up with crazy, bullshit ideologies and twisted views of the world around them.   I dont know, i just dont think that keeping demonizing them as creeps and perverted potential mass murderers will do any good. if anything they need a bit of sympathy and some professional help.
I absolutely love this. So glad I found you!
sad people believe a love relationship and sex are the way to achieve happiness.  this way of thinking is so negative.  makes me love myself even more.  edit: you're goofy with the editing.  enjoyable work.
Baking bread makes him that insecure??? I can't even...
You are incredible!!!
im legally changing my name to femoid
I think I'm codependent because I hate myself and always have and I dont know how to stop. I'm insanely jealous because I'm insecure and i dont know how to be any other way. Relationships with me are unhealthy for everyone involved.
The moment that creature came in front of the camera and spoke I knew was done with this vid.
As a person who was a former incel, I can say that there is still hatred and anger in me. That there is discrimination and reactions which I am not proud are in my mind. However most of the solutions in this video are the solution and I am so glad this video didn't shit on all the pain and suffering some people have experience... that I have experienced.  Thank you.
What do they think about gay people?
The sea is really THAT bitch.
i had no idea what was going to happen going into this but god im glad i watched this video
Lol Jokes aside  In the west its impossible to be a incel if you have 25-100$  unless you have pussy phobia, disgust for hookers,or your have some kind of insanity ~Sexual liberated society
You are my new queen and i love you. fucking subscribed.
This was very informative and wise. It's crazy that this actually exists haha
First off, the lighting here, and presumably the rest of your videos, is incredible. Amazingly produced! I've known about the incel stuff for a while, but you've done a great job at summarizing and deconstructing every element of it in a surprisingly even handed manner.   A lot of these people are just beating themselves up because they're looking for it. 4chan is known for attracting people who are overly critical for nearly anything you can imagine. I've spent plenty of time there as an artist, and I know the feeling of "oh, maybe they're talking about me" and you're kind of expecting praise, or maybe some criticism, but it rarely ever feels good. Even the porn boards aren't immune from that shit. Its just not worth it, and I sincerely hope that the cool people that are there, or those who try to help (there are some!) just find better, less toxic places to congregate.
I love her, so down to earth and smart. Incels just infuriate me so much, it's inspiring how relaxed she is.
The chad virgin meme is honestly one of the only good r9k memes.
gang weeders rise up
Haha i thought i was the craziest tran in bmore. Love it.
Wow I didn't expect much from this video but it was very informative and I realize that "the whatever hurts is true" phrase is totally correct for my life. I would seek out people that talked shit about me or in general, while also talked shit about myself because hey it's true. Which is almost like self harm but verbally. I'm really going to try to change this mindset thank you.
I was in Paris drinking tea in my hotel room when I saw this video was posted!
You are so pretty
I literally gagged when you said the word “femoids”
I mean I do fuckin love rainstorms...
makeup on point , ebeybrows on fleek damn these FEEEEEEEEEEEMOIDS
Can't. Get. Enough. Is this my third time watching all your videos.... Maaaybeee...
I don't like that the titles and descriptions of your vids are automatically translated into the language of my country...anyone knows how to change that ?
my ex is an actual 4chan loser who I found refers to women as biocunts, I knew that he had his own conservative views and I loved him for the love he showed me, and some of the words he had spoken, unfortunately. I agreed with some of his views about modernity. I didn't realise the depth of his nastiness and hatred until the end of the relationship. He had all these underlying beliefs related to some of his hurtful actions. He sent me a screenshot from one of his 4chan escapades, saying pretty much modern women were replaceable to sex dolls. Women were biocunts, modern women were useless. That's where I ended it, but it should of been done long before. He had no irl friends and no previous girlfriends outside of internet relationships. He has/had no job, I guess expects to live off his wealthy family the rest of his life. He is the definition of an incel and I didn't pay attention. I don't understand what I saw in him, other than I was so naive.
Listening to incels talk about skull structure sounds eerily similar to DiCaprio's character in Django talking about black peoples skulls. It's just moronic to think you can tell anything about a person just by their skull structure.
completely off topic, but I just discovered your channel and I gotta say: I'm digging your style.     that's all
I think you look like a woman, it wasnt until you mentioned that you were formerly a man that i thought, "oh i guess i can see it". Anyways im a first time watcher and wow this video was masterfully made. I've always wondered about the incels and to see them analyzed like this is just eye openeing
Aww, honey. Your bone structure is great as is. I envy you a little.
Not an incel, but I remember when I was in my late teens, I felt flawed because I hadn't been laid while it seemed like the rest of the world had. I never felt hate and malice toward anyone, but I felt depressed. I'd see people happily on dates or hear stories about other people's romances, and it would make me feel like a failure even though I had many successes in my life.  I hate hearing people, especially people who act like they care about mental illness, talk about incels like they're a nuisance to society and talk down to them like they are less of people. It's not constructive, and it makes them feel more like an outsider, which leads people to have more malice and hate.
Hypergamy is fun, if it's true how do incels explain why on all statistics taken from dating sites show that older women prefer men their age, while men choose younger women, independently from their own age. How hot an individual is, is relative, therefore cannot be quantificable in an objective way, but age is quantificable and objective, so their proof is based on a non-numerical way, while proof against that concept is objective and with precise values. Yet women are apparently the only ones that refute facts and act on feelings right chaps?
For some reason, the "has never listened to a song" description had me in stitches.
I didn't get the water metaphor but great video!!
🤔 But what is lesbian Chad called?
When people who binge nature documentaries try to find a universal cause for why they can't get the puss, without actually looking.  The truth was inside the whole time~!
This video is worthy of an Academy Award and a standing applause. Thank you so much for existing.
How did I get here YouTube??
Oh my gosh! This is amazing!
I’ve never understood the stigma associated with males and cooking, a large portion of the mist famous chefs on the planet are male. Also if you like to eat, and you like to eat good food shouldn’t you learn how to cook? I love cooking personally.
Got sent here after listening to your slot on Chapo, and I already love your work. Your production value is evident, it adds a high end feel to almost a "talking head" kind of video. Keep em coming girl, you got a new subscriber.
Gud
Really good points! But I'm more impressed with the lighting and decor in this video haha, amazing.
First time viewer... Be nice to have a disclaimer that you're trans before I rub one out in the intro. Not my proudest nut but a nut is a nut...
You are so good at being a woman that I wasn't even questioning it until you mentioned you grew up as a boy.  But I really respect and admire how open you are about your transition.
"fuckable skull" 😂 loved this video
Amazing! I love the way you move through opposing stances and try to explain “why”. Awesome video and will definitely binge on your videos today. Do you have a podcast? Is there a way I can throw money at you? Thanks!
I just recently learned about incels and I'm creeped out but I like how you really delved deep and genuinely tried to understand them and even recommended helpful therapy advice. You must have a lot of patience with people.  Btw you kind of look like Winona Ryder.  Who is awesome and so are you.
"Bread scientist" lmaoo
Chapo brought me here, subscribed
CRAB BUCKETS.  You put one crab in a bucket, he climbs out. He doesn't get eaten and lives his best life.  You put a whole lot of crabs in a bucket, the bottom crabs pull down the ones trying to climb out. They all fucking die.
Wow this video was very very good. I liked how you tried to humanize incels and explain the pain they feel by comparing it to your own. That really gave this a great sense of empathy and nuance. It’s easy to make fun of certain groups which can be a tad ridiculous at times, but it takes real effort to attempt to make them seem a little more sympathetic than we may have felt before. Excellent work! I’d also like to wish you luck in your journey as a woman, Godspeed.
Decided to give your videos a chance after seeing them pop up in my recommendations for a while and I'm glad I did. This was a great breakdown of incel culture, and the presentation was very entertaining. Keep it up!
I’m so glad my friend wasn’t home when I started playing this 😂😂 wtf?
You seem very confident so I don't think you need to hear this but, I literally would have never guessed you were once a man haha You pass very well dear :) <3
Why the fuck has YouTube never recommended this channel to me? Thanks Chapo Boyz
Just found your channel, lovin your content! Insightful, thoughtful and super funny!
He he epidemiology of ideas
I just want to say I had no idea you were a trans woman until I heard your voice,and even then I wasn't entirely sure until you said you were. You are beautiful and you don't need to spend a bunch of extra money to look feminine unless you really, really want to. 😘
I shared this video to everyone I know... Because its fucing beautiful. And the way you explained things are really funny, sarcastic and awesome. Love the lighting and the serious bg music and also loved your voice.
So you are like Tiresius from Greek mythology? Lived both as a man and a woman. (sorry I am just a english student)
ContraPoints....    This was the first video I've seen of yours and as a mid aged mid ground person I'm very happy for your point of view . I have now watched several of your videos and I enjoy the charecters of personality  you've shared . I find your view and voice more of trying to explain your self then change others . This to me is the best way ever to inform and change minds . Please keep it up . And as to this topic I agree that cultures like this have serious issues that once you get stuck in a downward spiral it is very hard to pull out of it . I am glad you where strong enough to share your history and let it set an example for your view . Thank you
Cooking is not a feminine skill. Not only is it better for your health, but I can't count how many women I've gotten to drop their panties for me because I made them dinner. It's personal, cheaper than taking her out, and you don't need to worry about the added step of getting her to come home with you.
This video actually helped me. Thank you.
I practice LDAR religiously.
Can we program /r/braincels (or whatever they'll call it next time it gets banned) to just  redirect to /r/iamtheocean?  Also, the term "divorce-rape" (I feel gross just typing that) shows where the manosphere's priorities are.
I'm 23 and I've never been in a relationship. Why is that? Because I'm insecure as fuck. And who can change that? Me.  Don't expect that kind of change over night, work on yourself, give it time. Distract yourself with some kind of hobby or even your job. Don't dwell on it.
First video watched from your channel, was entertained and for once felt I actually learned something on YouTube. When you said you were Trans I was genuinely surprised. I guess now I'll be subscribing and going through all your videos!
I just subbed after listening to chapo this video is absolutely amazing I think this is the sort of thing high school students should watch. Every young person goes through stages of mass insecurity and it's easy for anyone to slide in negative toxic online communities. Heck I had a very similar experience as yourself I used to watch hours of creationism debunking video I used to love Sam Harris but realised that a lot of those on YouTube had very bad opinions once they were no longer talking about science. Thanks for sharing your stories
this is the first video of yours I've ever seen and I just wanna say 1. holy shit the QUALITY of this video is so good I didn't even realize how long it was and 2. I'm extremely gay. that's all thanks.
Fingal's cave. Nice touch.
Oh my god the way this video is made is everything!!!
That one guy does not have a female friend that tells him about her period.
After watching to 22:21 I just wanted to say that you are looking fantastic, far better than I probably ever will, and to keep up the amazing work you do!
You are so beautiful! I love your videos xo
Here from hearing you on Chapo. Fantastic videos. Subscribed.
‘Becky’ is way cuter than ‘Stacey’ in that drawing. Just saying.
Great
This is my second time watching this video and I still lost my shit at "the inherent eroticism of the sea".
depression has its own agenda, and it really does distort your view of reality. it's our human negativity bias. life's weird.
I LOVE YOU
ContraPoints for 2020
I subscribed to this channel awhile ago and after hearing hbomberguy mention this channel in one of his old vids I realized I haven’t seen a vid from here in awhile. So I go to check and I’m some how unsubscribed. How did that happen?
I just thought of the absolute best thing to post on one of these forums! How much hate do you think this could get? And, more importantly, how quickly do you think I would be called a Chad?  https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A4KyqXhAO5c
Contra. Maybe Incels need to strive more for love or more. YOU ARE GORGEOUS. I know I'm pinning.
me scouring the comments for hate is digital suicide. why do we do this...?
i cannot express how much i wish everyone in schools would just watch this whole thing. The content is so genuinely intellectual and incredibly fucking hilarious, and on top of that, listening to her incredibly enticing voice? wow. i love everything about this video and can’t FUCKING wait to see more content. i’m never the one to leave “just subbed!!1!1!” comments but hey. here we are.
idk if this helps at all but you really do pass in this video! I couldn't tell you were trans at all until you said so! I wish you well on your transition journey!!
This is a perfect example of how the internet - while not inherently evil - has been an engine to create and dissimulate extremism. People isolate themselves in communities where everyone thinks just like them. It's affirming. The community becomes an echo chamber that propels people to believe that their views are "truth" because so many other people are saying the same thing. They can't all be wrong, right? They feed off of one another until their world philosophy is entirely illogical, but they can't hear it over all of the kindred voices telling them they're right.
Solid video! Extremely well written and edited. Earned a sub!....now to binge your content >.>
"The inherent eroticism of the sea." I'm gonna die omg
I'm so glad that I found this video   I'm in love
When you were doing the whispering about the Chad Circumference™ I was like "man she really could do ASMR"
I LOVED THIS!!!!!!
17:42 the first step is to recognize that, that is some serious fucked up shit 🤣🤣🤣
Jesus fuck, cooking isn't just for women. I find men who can cook and clean sexy asf because they can take care of themselves like adults should. This whole "men do this", "women do that" is such bullshit. Just do whatever you want and look for a woman who likes what you do. God.
GET YOUR HANDS OFF ME YOUR FIFTHY INCEL!
This was amazing. Also as a cis-gender, heterosexual woman I can confirm that you look great hun! Seriously you’re gorgeous!
is this a dude?
You are great and this video was great but i feel sick after listening to all of this...
6:50 "Chads with fuckable skulls" Congratulations Natalie, you just set off a horrible train off thought.
"Volcel if you wouldn't, bitches"  This is the video and you are the host the internet needs.
For a video about so much vile shit, you managed to make it healing in a way I'm not sure anyone else could. It's really incredible. Also, full-length Contrapoints sea/storm erotica when?
They crossed the line when they became terrorists
the eroticization of  the sea and rain at the end of the vid kinda turned me on.
Fantastic video!
Well made, informative, funny, really enjoyable to watch - great work!
So I have a new crush, now.
first video i've watched of your had no idea you "used" to be a man until you said such.
I was just watching that mirror about free speech that's up on Shaun's channel and I clicked this video because the mirror made me think you were a very interesting person and wow your voice has changed! It's really impressive, I hope that you are happy with it!
God, these people are really sick. Like,  if the 1st thing you think about when you see a woman (or any human being in general) is f*cking you got a problem.
LMFAO
If in fact women are hypergamous, then certainly the red pillers understand how hard it is for Stacey’s!   Think about it! Our chads are being carousel ridden by normie beckies thag will do their bidding and let them treat them bad.  So Staceys get to lead a life of completely loneliness and constant rape and hysersexualization and no love.   Wait s minute. Did I.... did I just become an incel??    🤣🤣🤣🤣🤣🤣🤣🤣🤣  J/k j/k I’m just a stacey-cel. Forever remitted to being on the pedestal.   🤣🤣🤣🤣🤣🤣🤣🤣🤣  Pussiliaia.  No but honestly, I’m getting really tired of this idea that conventionally attractive women get more or better sex. So MANY of my gorgeous friends are involuntarily celibate. We can go out and get raped whenever. We absolutely DO get a non stop barrage of MESSAGES. Good luck getting a text back or someone to not flake on the first date.  🙄🙄🙄🙄🙄🙄🙄🙄🙄🙄  I’m literally seeing someone for the past 4 and a half months AND we’re kinda open (he’s a chad who is seldom around because of his VERY chad job. So of course we’re not too serious.) and I HAVENT GOTTEN LAID IN A MONTH!   🤣🤣🤣🤣🤣🤣🤣🤣  It’s SERIOUSLY not that easy to get laid! Lmfao. I get creeped on, groped, hot on, roofied....  But if I go out, as I might tonight to the weekly party my friend bartends, i promise it’s not that easy to get laid. Chads all HAVE gfs. Sometimes 10 gfs.  (Yes I am using these incel terms ironically, and yet oddly appropriately.)
what disgusts me most about incels is how sexually driven they are, they want that pussy and they aint afraid of showin it....i mean, damn
Your videos are awesome. And witty. And smart. And fun..funny. and you are beautiful. I'll keep sharing them. Keep making content.
Can I point out that you can be happy without having to stick your genitals into everything that moves. I'm pretty sure my happiness at this moment is not a result of all the relationships I've been in... But rather that I like where i am  eg work, hobbies and social life If sex is the only thing that can bring you joy then what you look like is irrelevant because you have much bigger worries... Consider getting help.
I love your aethetic and your sarcasm. SUBBED
they do know that you can literally find prostitutes on the internet right? When I've had sex 30 times this year by doing that
Huh. I know women who have a thing for delicate wrists. And for men who are good in the kitchen.  Maybe it's the personality that turns ladies like my friends off.
13:25 OMG, I do this all the time!
What
wow amazing way for us non-incels to understand what an incel is... you nailed it!
I don't care about rest of video, first 2 minutes were amazingly funny.
Subscribed, this was such an interesting video and it tackled  ALOT! 🌸🌸🌸🌸🌸🌸
I don't want to mock incels... proceeds to directly mock them. Classic roastie :')
35 mins ago: Youtube recomendations, do i really wanna watch a video about incels? wont that be a bit too depressing for a hungover sunday? Now: Holy shit my mind is blown, that was amazing and i think i am in love
Look, you don't have to be extremely attractive for me to swipe right on you. But PLEASE for the love of God... take pics that don't make you look like you're going to murder me. Put pics of you smiling, holding a puppy, with a friend. Nothing makes me more terrified than seeing an unsettling dead on image that would work better as a mugshot. That is all.
This was the first of your videos I saw. It was great! I watched a few more, and liked them, too. So then I thought I could say to you something to you more honestly, since you speak to viewers openly, and seem to like feedback. I found you very attractive, and then half-way through you said you were trans and started talking about Tinder! Well, you look great, so keep it up!
Tranny.
You're beautiful, don't worry about it.
Also great points to be making in 2018. I love your whole breakdown and explanation
FANTASTIC CONTENT!!!! I’m so impressed
I am full-on Contraphillic at this point.
Is some of this incel stuff based on Seinfeld? I mean between between jerry's riff about most people being undateable and there is George I dunno just a theory
I didn't even notice you were trans until you said something about it!!!! You look so damn good, gurl!
I kept seeing this video in my recommend but never watched before. Very glad I finally did. The quality of this is just superb, seriously, I sense a binge coming on 😊💕
this is so incredibly thoughtful and full of empathy. It's actually a helpful contribution to this discussion (or rather: these discussions)....Thank you!
I've never seen this lady's videos before, but if she is evem half as glam in person as she is in this video then I think I have a new YouTube celebrity crush.
ContraPoints - just found your channel, and I think I'm in love. You are so brilliantly articulate, and respond to issues in an eloquent and surprisingly empathetic way that I haven't come across before. If you don't work as a teacher or a university professor, you should. Because, wow.
Before you said you were trans I was debating in my head whether you were trans or a wine mom.       I don’t know if this is an insult or a compliment and whichever answer I get I know I will be inevitably confused by it.
Okay i did not intend to get aroused by a rainstorm today... cheers for that Natalie.  A fantastic video into the Incel mindset. i wonder if using this information someone could create a self help book that could actually cure them of their brainwashing. 🤔
"the manosphere exists because rock n roll is dead" legendary
from what i can see no one has commented this but her voice is very sweet and relaxing so anyone saying otherwise can catch these hands lmao
*f e m o i d s*
Your bones look nice ma’am
yo what's the track that starts at 9:00
I’m very happy I never discovered what Incels were about 2-3 years ago, that would have been a...dark path
Firstly, this is artistry and I’m shook. Secondly, thank you so much for bringing up digital self harm and masochistic epistemology. I totally engage in these behaviours and it never occurred to me to explain it like that. Plus like what YouTube video about incels ever goes that deep and philosophical? I’m so impressed.
looks like all that philosophy schooling wasn't such a waste, this is a pretty smart critique of a bunch of different subcultures sharing a similar problem
I loved everything about this video. Gonna watch so much more!
You're fucking exquisite
Listen here Mickey the Pooh, I'll have you know, when I bake my mom's recipe for broccoli casserole, chicken alfredo, beef jerky, a giant cookie, I do it so  manly.  I use a chop saw to cut the broccoli, and a masonry hammer to tenderize the beef.  Small axe for the rest.  I might even let a beard hair drop and bake in the cookie for extra testosterone.  It's a man's game, the nonsense of this comment.
Wow. This is better than anything I have ever seen on incels. I think you are brilliant. I have subscribed!
Came to this video for a quick laugh at incels to feel better about myself. Left with a more sympathetic view and a deeper understanding of my own history of self-loathing and self-harm.   Gosh dang it ContraPoints, stop trying to make me a better person!
20:50 That is the best sentence I've ever heard.
This was a really great and insightful video.
Chadsplaining? Oh wow that did me in.
Did he used to do dark souls lore videos?
Finally a good recommendation from youtube. I'll be subscribing for sure.
Mountains out of molehills.  I can't figure out why Youtube has been suggesting this video to me.
"How would you feel if you got radio silence like the incels did?"  I would feel like shit...I would know, because I do get radio silence as a lesbian on dating apps. I'm also not talking about putting women in sex slavery to satisfy me or driving my car into groups of people. It's fucking hard out there but I don't scrape up too much sympathy for incels.
Good thing I'm too emo and bisexual to be an incel.
If Hypergamy were real, the "most attractive" women and the "least attractive" men would be left over.  Also FORM A BAND incels (not all of you at once that would be bizarre, might be awesome actually). That's a super easy way to get laid.
You’re a treasure both comedically and informatively. And you’re transitioning beautifully, I just wanna say.
This is truly one of the most bizarre subcultures I have ever come across.
here's the real redpill: sex is messy and tiring and your hand feels better. what makes it good is the extra-physical values either you attach to it, or that you accept as an attachment from societal messages. sex is nice with a person you care about, and who cares about you back. sex with strangers can be pretty awkward unless you're fucked up, which replaces that in-the-moment awkwardness with morning-after awkwardness. if FEELING GOOD were the primary goal, we'd all just have fleshlights and lifetime supplies of lube and be happy as can be sequestered in our private detritus. it's funny to me that they choose to focus on the sexual aspect of it when in reality incels are just really lonely, or perceiving some kind of societal pressure that they "should" be the outgoing person that's going out and contracting STD's in risky, casual sexual encounters. naturally these incel communities are self-reinforcing echo chambers that plunge everybody who subscribes to them in a vicious negative feedback loop. it's like that inner voice in your head that feeds your internal cognitive distortions, except it's EVERYONE'S inner, cognitive distortions being given voice and feeding off each other. it lends that inner voice even more credence because it's getting not just internal, but also external reinforcement, virtually ensuring that without professional help these people will continue to spiral down into a permanent state of artificial helplessness and hopelessness, potentially leading to suicide, or at the very least, ensuring a life that is empty and unfulfilling.  what a crock of shit.
wish i could be an ultra-masculine bread scientist bros. maybe then women would pay attention to me
Bam! Subbed!
Progress pics is an incredible antidote to the incel bollocks.   Instantly disproves all the bollocks about being born unattractive and hopeless.
someone had fun with props
Just about every incel is actually a volcel. They just have higher standards than their attractiveness justifies.  That's my situation. I was a bit of an outcast in high school. Everybody said college would be different, but it wasn't. I got sucked into the PUA thing after The Game came out and tried the bar pickup thing, and I've poured a ton of time into dating apps since then, and my results are pretty consistent. I can get dates with obese or very unattractive women. I'm in my 30s now, and hygiene/youth/not leaving my room aren't the problem. I'm the problem.  I think the healthy thing to do in that situation is probably to just recalibrate your ideas of how attractive your partners have to be. Don't try to get what you want, try to want what you have, etc. I haven't been able to do it. It took me a long time to get lonely and unhappy enough to really try, but now I have. And I just can't.   So I can relate to incels in that sense. I mean, I do think about killing myself a lot. I'm on antidepressants, I'm in therapy, but being lonely and sexually frustrated all the time wears you down. There's no real fix for that. It's not how anybody would choose to live their life.  But the thing is: that's all me. I'm the one who's ugly, lacking in charm, etc. I'm the one who has standards that are higher than he merits, and doesn't have whatever mental strength or flexibility is required to change them. I'm probably to blame for some of it, but I didn't choose to look the way I look, to be who I am. And nobody else forced it on me either. There's nobody to blame.   Sometimes the world isn't what you'd like it to be, and that's a reason to be sad. But it's not a reason to hate anyone.
ULTRA MANLY BREAD
THIS IS GOLD
Natalie holding skulls is hot. She needs a throne of skulls. 😋
Please don't shave off your bone. You look like a beautiful woman and didn't realize you were trans until you even said anything!
F E E E E E E M O O O I I I I I I D S
To be entirely honest I think the modern liberal jargon and obsession with who is a bigot and how, is just as bad sometimes. It's easy to look at the whole world in terms of hierarchy, oppression, and privilege by which social boxes you can or cannot fill.
I'm pretty sure that ContraPoints' "Ye Olde Phrenology" cuts are my new favorite anything...
I use to seek out political videos knowing they would piss me off. I would get angry and stay angry until I was physically exhausted by it. But I'd still go back day after day and it came to a crescendo where I was shopping for canisters of inert gas to suffocate myself with. I pulled myself back by turning off reply comment notifications so I no longer had to see the comments alt right trolls were screeching at me. I no longer see what they say and thus am abruptly immune to their baiting. I downloaded an extension that blocked facebook and numerous political youtube channels I frequented. After a few days I felt a LOT better. But I have to be vigilant because I catch myself slipping back into it. I can totally see why these incels would go to these places and be made to feel enraged or depressed. This belief that THIS is the truth and if you're not looking at it all the time, if you're not enraged or depressed by it all the time, then you're weak and in denial of reality.
Roosh is the definition of Toxic Masculinity. Who the fuck needs to justify liking to cook?
Does contrapoints have a fetish for the ocean?
First time watching. 12ish mins in laughing my ass off. Sub earned. Also I'm from Baltimore as well (unrelated factoid).
The ending has me convinced you might drown me
Oh god I appreciate Chopin's waltz in h in the background so much. And the aesthetics of this video. Still, sad video about what happens when learned helplessness meets internet.
This is a stunningly brilliant exposé on this subject. I’m watching this in horror. You are amazing , @Contrapoints!
What, you mean you don't constantly run into women on the phone talking about Paris Hilton?!
The subject matter is extremely creepy yet I was thoroughly entertained... bravo
Wouldn't your bones potentially regrow after being shaved down or is that not really a thing unless it's broken or the like?
Omg I had no idea you were a man... You’re absolutely beautiful <3
omg these people break my brain. How do we stop this?
So I'm 5mins into this video and I'm already subscribing...
You are very brave... of dating straight guys 😁 gay guys are already a lot to take but straights.... jeez
I fucking love your Victorian skull analyst character. 😂
You ARE a gorgeous goddess!
you truly are gorgeous tho
Never understood the height issue.  I'm taller than my bf, because why not? Also I'm usually taller than my friends. I'm tall but I won't exclusively date giants because of that.
Honey I couldn’t even tell, wouldn’t have even begun to guess until you outright said you were trans
This video is brilliant.
First time I've ever seen one of your videos or really heard of you, and I gotta say, you absolutely present perfectly well as a woman.  Until you mentioned you were trans I would have had no idea.  Not trans myself btw, so not just sayin that to sound nice or offer insincere support or whatever.  Thanks for the video, it has some interesting insight into the whole weird red pill-ish mentality
Oh no! Everyone in Baltimore is hun 😿 I had no idea of the negative connotation for some communities 😿
Okay Youtube, I’m watching the video...         Thank you Susan, you’re doing something good for once...
Fwiw I think your voice kinda sounds cool like Tina from Bob's Burgers.
Damage. That's why everyone over the age of 15 minutes is the way they are.
"firing squad of bad dick" You earned that like.
what was the intro beat??
Women are icky and have cooties.
"I used to live as a man" No shit.... Did no one ask about your 'feminine penis'?
"An ultra-masculine baker." DEAD
what was that intro?!! god who would sign up to read that garbage out loud????? i could not listen to even ten seconds!!
I hope your videos keel going in this direction production wise, it shows so much growth! I watched you in a debate with Blaire and although its not the same as sitting down to film a video, you have so much mote confidence. Although i appreciate your narrative on social issues in general, i feel like this is such a great way to be entertaining and unique. Keep doing you 💕
there cant be any female incels because its logically impossible for both male and female incels to exist at the same period of time, unless you mean someone who cant have sex for medical reasons, a female and a male incel would cancel each other out
It's too bad for these incels that Adam Conover ruined their physiology by saying alphas/chads do not exist.
I have no idea how I ended up here but for once it got me to a good place! This was just great hits every mark! Humor, editing, carisma...
Okay tea time: it's my first time watching a video of yours and I had no idea you were trans, could never clock you tbh
Hey Natalie, i'm willing to donate my ovaries if you want em, i'm not looking for kids so i'd be glad to give them to someone who would put them to good use
You're so well spoken and beautiful good job explaining a complex subject in such detail! Also i didn't know you were trans until you said it and i thought you were joking at first
:/ they cause their own unhappiness.
Had to comment again because I was watching Leah Remini’s 2-hour exposé on Jehovah’s Witnesses, and one of their members straight-up said (in defense of the position that women should all be subservient to men) “scientists say that the cranial capacity of a woman is 10% smaller than that of a man.” I absolutely lost my shit, obviously, because now we have definitive proof that Foppington’s Law exists outside of the Internet! IT’S REAL, Y’ALL!!
Okay so first, you're wardrobe throughout was just IMPECCABLE. AMAZING. Second, I never would've thought about ANY of the things you pointed out in this video regarding Incels. This was an excellent video, an eye opener, and I am looking forward to going through your other  videos!
This is amazing. Totally sharp but also so empathetic. Thank you.
Wow, I am so so glad I found this channel. The way you layout your arguments, with understanding empathy, logic and science is miles above the usual one-sided black & white view of usual commentary videos is refreshing. And it's peppered with amazing entertainment and comedy too. You might me my favorite channel discovery in months!
I so don't understand how people date online. Not to mention people are far more attractive in person. The blonde girl will always get more clicks than me but put us both in person and chances are the men will be far more interested in me. That's just my experience
This was great. I love how you touch upon such a wide array of subjects, and yet explain them so well. I must admit you had me a little frightened when you talked about how your research had affected your thought process in a negative way. I have been very interested in the subject of incels for a long time, and I've been feeling kind of the same way lately. Thank you for bringing that issue to my attention. Keep doing what you're doing!
I actually just started watching some of your videos and didn't even realize you were trans. I don't mean to sound condescending, and I know there will always be that part of your brain that doubts it, but I think you are passing very well.
Hi I'm only halfway thru the video but I subscribed I love your editing style and commentary style  Keep it up queen 👏🏼👏🏼👏🏼
Pertaining to dating apps, white men are statistically fine: the least amount of messages go to black women and Asian men (look it up). And I can vouch for this: my tinder is always silent 🤨 but I do well irl, so fuck apps and find yo man or girl in the wild (or instagram)
Okayyyyyy wtf is this shit.
22:22 Sublime ASMR skills.. you should make whole videos in that format x)
Okay but like this was amazing
I am so impressed you are amazing
Love the elaborate studio setup. Instant sub and bell..button...thingie
I just wanna say a few things.....1 you are fricken pretty, 2 I love your voice, and 3 you're funny af. Also just incels, I kinda feel bad for some of them, cause there are a few who aren't mysoginists and just have issues talking to people and getting women to like them, and then they go on these super toxic communities with people telling eachother that everything is hopeless, that they should kill themselves. It's almost like they WANT to stay incels, with how adamantly they flat out refuse anything that even remotely argues with their views. It's kinda sad, honestly
Wait...are incels the result of sexual relationships being treated like a market? Or Ｎｅｏｌｉｂｅｒａｌｉｓｍ?
Incells end up with what you call Black Pill. Most incells and Migtow seem to be Black Pill.   Red pill is different but can become Black Pill.   I'm Red Pill with no chance of becoming Black Pill.
Does it ever occur to such people that if only movie star beautiful people could find a mate the world would only be populated by movie star beautiful people as only they would have reproduced?
Frankly speaking, FUCK the Incels. I'm happy to say that _I hate EVERY Incel—I hate that entire crowd; every single one of them._ If someone identifies as an Incel, I hate them DEEPLY.   Because _anyone_ who's proud of hating an entire group of people based on identity alone should be SHOT.   [behind me, a gun is cocked] . . . wait . . . what? What did I say?? WHAT DID I SAY???
So are _former_ Incels called "Excels?"
Interesting..they have allowed themselves to think of women as foreign objects, instead of seeing the feminine energies within themselves.   In completely denying the opposite sex, they have created this split in their own psyche which only alienates them more. As well as cause more division amongst one another in society.   If any "incels" need emotional and spiritual healing to help  discover their reconnection to women-please email me. Find my info in my About section.
*As a more right leaning individual, I thoroughly enjoy this channel.*
This may be an unwelcome space to say this, but fuck it. I see a whole lot of eerie resemblance between incels and the extra ultra man tears feminists.  Kinda funny, but not, that they position themselves as the most dire of opposites, pure enemies when they are probably the best for each other.
You look so much like this girl I used to date it's a bit weird just like cayleigh Elise looks like another of mine lol except cayleigh has big man hands I always end up staring at them not trying to be rude but that's what happens when I watch her
You are self-aware in the absolute sexiest of ways.
The typical left-wing obsession with language and oppressing it.
Reminds me of "pro Ana's" aaking for meanspo on tumblr
33:50 FUCKING SHIVERS
"Stop hating women" shouldn't be 6th on the mom things you want to say list, it should be first and if they hated a race then "stop being racist" would be first. I know this seems like nitpicking but I've noticed overt and subtle ways misogyny doesn't seem like it's that big a deal even though it kills women. In this example, men getting laid being first emphasizes that men's ability to have sex is more important than misogyny and women's autonomy. They aren't entitled to sex or girlfriends, women aren't things; women are people. I'd say averting bigots from doing irreversible harm to innocent women than their ability to get laid should have the more weight and thus first place spot on the list. Also, referring these misogynists to Peterson while acknowledging he's also a misogynist doesn't do women a whole lot of good. You're just helping them actually get women without changing that whole misogyny attribute they have. Again, why isn't misogyny seen as a big deal? Why is their ability to get laid more important than women's lives and well being? Believe it or not the popularizing and the cavalier use of misogynistic slurs like bitch does provide some answer. Otherwise awesome video.
yeah, honestly they just need positive male role models!!! so in reality probably getting advice from a man that dresses as a woman, is probably not the smartest move!
all in all though, he she is right.
first time viewer; don't know whether to love or to hate you. maybe both, i suspect you can cope with that ;)
well geez if they feel that bad they could just go f*** a tranny!!!
This video made me think a lot about the environment I surround myself with around the time o first watched this video, I spent a lot of time on Reddit reading through r/niceguys, r/iamverysmart, and  r/iamverybadass, and I'd tell myself it was for the comedy. But honestly, I think a lot of it was feeding into the concept of "well at least I'm not as bad as these fucks." I'm setting the bar incredibly low so I can feel good about myself. But that's such a bad thing to do, and that's only a small part of what I've come to consider my toxic environment. I'm trying my best to improve by building better relationships with friends and going to therapy, and this video helped inspire me to do that. so thank you.
Love this channel!
Incels forget there are tons of lonely, overweight women in the world.  This theory that women rated a 5 will only date a man rated a 10 is BS.  The problem with incels is they rate women strictly on looks.  A woman can be a 10 in looks, but a 2 in personality.  Then they wonder why she's a bitch to him.  --------------------  And no 5 rated woman would date a guy rated a 10, that's absurd.  A 10 guy is not attracted to a 5 woman, and why would he go for a 5 when he can get a 9 or 10?  Also, there are plenty of 7, 8, and 9 rated women that would date a 5,6,7 guy because we women factor personality into our rating system.  A guy could be a 5 in physical attractiveness, but his personality can make him a 7 or 8.
Great video!!!!  I love the attitude you took with this topic.  Reminded me of The Cobert Report.  Very clever and I am looking forward to watching more videos!  I love your makeup and hair styles, you know how to flatter your bone structure!  :)
I love you. I'm subscribed.
Can we get a dramatic reading of more incel posts? It had me in tears lmao
Why was it recommended for me like how i got here from watching videos about ww1
Awesome Video! I didn't know you were trans until you mentioned it. I like your voice a lot, it sounds like a confident grounded woman.
This is the first time I stumbled upon your channel and I am in love
It's so awesome to discover in the middle of the video that you are trans. You are beautiful.
Amazing job here. Thanks for informing without hating.
I kinda feel sad for incels bc it's such a dark worldview. Self-defeating.
I think your bone structure is great the way it is! (Obviously I understand tho, and you have the right to make decisions about your own body). Interesting video!
Hahaha wow, the rock‘n‘roll is dead line made my day. Excellent content! I had to subscribe
You're awesome.
There are way too many comments of people feeling bad for incels. They say horrible and terrifying things about women. They don’t deserve compassion, they show no compassion to women they actually say disgusting things that make women extremely scared. It’s upsetting to see so many people feel bad for incels but not for the people they are actually threatening and dehumanizing
You are gorgeous for real for real.
C H A D P R E E T  lmao.... such science.
I thought "state mandated girlfriends" was some sort of fucking meme
My favorite one so far!
are you, like actually a siren trying to call us into the sea? wtf
i’m literally in love with you!!!! you’re so gorgeous and intelligent!! keep it up!
Incels are actually just what we called "losers" when I was in high school.
You will save us. Please do not die.
Running off to the Mediterranean is a great idea under any circumstance.
Does 07:40 know that 'most dildos' are sold for male homosexual anal sex?  The female-centric packaging just makes it easier to get into shops and online.
This was amazing. I will subscribe.
I guess I am over here being a Bacey, or a Stecky. Along with 90% of all womankind who do not fit into that pathetic incel binary.
The more I learn about the incel community the more I realize they say a lot of body positive talking points certain kinds of feminists say. Which is ironic. Both wanna b accepted but go about it in the wildest ways. This isn’t all feminists tho just the ones who think genetics r y men aren’t trying to fuck
You're a dude.
I'm what I'd call a volcel (Voluntary celibate), and I truly can't understand how these people think. They're just so angry and upset over not having sex. I mean... Why is it that important? Jerk off or something. I mean... While my girlfriend is in another country I can't sleep with anyone, but you don't see me shooting up a highschool over it. Take the rejection and move on. Believing that everyone who doesn't want to sleep with you is evil, and viewing yourself and people who think like you as above everyone else only pushes people who might actually sleep with you away. Seriously... No one wants to sleep with a school shooter, dude. Calm down, be chill, jerk off a bit, find the right person for you.
Two things  1. That Becky vs.Stacy comic was at least a little funny, but the Virgin vs. Chad one was just a sad psychological analysis. 2. I'm don't get this Strauss guy.....I mean bread scientist? He does understand that men running Bakeries is a common tradition, right? I think he assoicates "baking" with stuff you'll find at a "Konditorei" or something.
First video of yours I've seen.  Well, listened to while driving. I gotta say you put a lot of work into this, and I think you've really struck the core of this problem soundly.
I'm happy Roosh found his true passion.
Great video, subbed!
"I know about obsessing about mm of bone" Was that a dick joke?
Youtube has been recommending this to me for weeks, and I am so glad I finally clicked this. New subscriber inbound.
I didn't know anything about incels before I watched this video. I feel really sad by the way.
Incell need to learn to make the money if they want these women. Better to be alone in my opinion, use some of that money for a sex doll ,have freinds and a dog for companionship . No STDs, No false rape /abuse charges, No drama, More money ,More freedom MGTOW FOR LIFE
Contra, thank you. My best friend showed me one of your videos, and I've just been loving them. You're entertaining speech and eloquent wording flow so beautifully together.
I mean, Christ, I'm not exactly the best looking man around but even I have scored plenty of hotties here and there, and while I may not get as much attention as I'd like, I can't imagine being as depraved as some of these inches you've mentioned. Yikes! Get some pills or something. Oye....
"the manosphere exists because rock and roll is dead" is one of the best sentences i have ever heard
I was having my doubts about watching a video this long at this precise moment, but I enjoyed every minute of it, very interesting work.
I'm a Man. I love cooking. I keep the house clean. My wife's tje one that works. I am a Man, no need to justify it.
Every contour you say...?   Oh my.
Some of those boards are like playing in toxic waste. How could you not get sick from exposing yourself to that? There are some really sick people out there. Death Cult is a pretty good description.
I'm not gonna lie, my biggest take away from this video is  that I'm never gonna call anyone hon affectionately again, just on the off chance that I might hit that chord with someone :(
I really like your style. You have a way of introducing humor that isn't offensive and it doesn't take away from the seriousness of the topic. I'll be checking more videos, this one was great
A new friend in work told me about your channel. I've never been so grateful
As a depressed, self-hating, anxious 24 year old virgin man with body issues I feel like I'm in a fairly good position to say that the incel philosophy is ridiculous. You are not entitled to sex and to say a woman should let you have sex with them or they're evil is weird and rapey. There are plenty of women with body issues too, but to my knowledge they haven't formed a sub-culture of androphobic hate-speech to deal with their issues. Whatever problems you have in your own life, discrimination is not an answer.  ContraPoints this was an amazing video, as a new subscriber I find your work to be consistently brilliant.
I'm so glad I just discovered your channel! I really admire your logic, insight, intelligence, honesty, fairness, sympathy--up to a point, leavening of humour, and (in this video especially) willingness to share your own experiences and be vulnerable. Thanks for being awesome!
I'm technically a 41 year-old Incel, although I take no part in their online hatred. I keep to myself and suffer in silence, and if I hate anyone, it's me. So why am I an Incel (or virgin, really)? Well, because I happen to be both very unattractive and I have Avoidant Personality Disorder, which makes me hyper-sensitive to criticism. So not only do I hate the way I look, but if someone else so much as looks at me in the "wrong" way, I get anxiety attacks and withdraw to my own safe space. And this is really frustrating, because I'm not really a shy person. I'm ashamed of myself, and that's very different.  But all this anxiety hasn't just stopped me from having sex and relationships; it's a problem that affects every aspect of my life, every day. I've never been able to hold down a job for more than a week. I've been put on disability now because being out and about and living is too much for me to handle, looking like this. I don't want to look like I do. I don't want to be me. So I self-isolate, because it seems to be the only option available to me. It's not much of a life, to be honest. I never go anywhere, do anything or meet anyone. All my limited interests are things I can do on my own at home. Life and love are things on TV and in movies. And by this point, I can't even imagine that a single one of the 3,5 billion women in the world could find me attractive. And it's not just self-pity, either. I've hated myself for 27 years, and after so long, it's become my reality. I've never known how to accept myself enough to get out there and approach or even meet women. And at this point, I seriously doubt I'd be willing to feel loved, even if a woman threw herself at me (yeah, right).  But no, I don't take my frustrations out on others. Not only is that wrong and selfish, but my disorder makes me want to not attract attention, and it's kind of hard being a dick to other people in everyday life and just get away with it. Actions have consequences, and I don't want the consequences. But it's extremely frustrating to go through life feeling worthless and unloved. I can't even visit my parents anymore, because I'm convinced they think I look like a freak. And with that mindset, dating women is beyond impossible.
As a first time viewer I just have to say, excellent video. I agere with almost everything you say, a few things were a bit off in my mind though. For one I think people absolutely should have sympathy for the incels, or at least try to. I think their hatred comes primarily from being shunned by others. I don't mean though, that you should sympathize with their actions or vocabulary, nor that people should strive to empathize with them.   But as I said, overall great video, keep up the good work.
This is amazing!
Well, in the end everything you do in your life is pointless. You will die and will be forgotten and then nothing is left of you. Life is pointless and every moral and ethnic you think together in your brain is even more pointless. So the only thing left is to enjoy the fucking ride. Dont care about the opinion of others, dont let them tell you how to think and what to feel. You are just a tiny little existence on this world, that is nothing more than a grain of sand in the overall universe and that should make you fucking happy. You really dont have much to worry about if you think about it. Eat, sleep and enjoy your life. (i know my english sucks)
I hadn't quite realized how far this whole Incel thing went, and I am so sorry you had to deep dive for this wonderful composed video.
"That's  a lot of baltimorian men that swiped right on a tran!" I fucking love your humor
I honestly had no idea you were trans
Your videos and speaking technique are growing. Keep it up.
inspired. subscribing.
Facebook is the biggest exporter of all kinds of murder. Co-relation.
Hello comrade
>I used to get posted there a lot Bold of you to assume  you don't still
First video I’ve seen of yours and I’m now a regular watcher. Very insightful, excellent delivery and writing. Thank you, so far I love your work!
this i the fist video I saw from you, and the part where you start explaining that you know what it's like to be a guy, I was so confused for minutes because I never would have thought that you are a transgender woman. After watching almost every video of yours, I have to say, your transformation is amazing. And your videos are so interesting and educational. I'm 20 and I'm just figuring myself out. Keep making videos. I love them!💖
What's the problematic thing at 18:46?
Why not just hire hooker
Welp.  Time to go fuck the ocean.
I just discovered this channel. This video is AWESOME, thank you for making and sharing it. I learned so much! It’s really hard to make the subject of women hating and incel self-loathing understandable and approachable, but I think you definitely did that here. 👏👏👏
You really shouldn't make such a large effort to write your script targeting a certain audience its a bit weird and manipulative.
There's no such thing as ''incels''. You can bribe a woman into having sex with you (marriage, relationships) like everyone else does.
To build one's identity around not getting laid is...weird. In fact, it's the weirdest shit I've come across in a good long while.
"WE'RE DROWNING IN DICK AND MOST OF IT IS TERRIBLE #NOTALLDICK" im fucking losing it im.....
I loved that! Great way to break down this community. A lot of these weird internet communities seem to contain self-loathing, some form of discrimination towards a group of people, & an existential dogma. I really enjoyed this, & look forward to seeing more of your channel!
Foppington's law is the best thing ever
Four minutes in, I'm already in love with you
Thank you so much, for giving me some info about the slur 'hon'. I had no idea. I dont think just the LGBT community should be more aware of this, everyone should!
I'm a little sad to hear that you have (had?) insecurities about your facial structure, because when I saw your video in my suggestions, and saw your face... I was- blown away, tbh. You're gorgeous. Incredibly gorgeous. I am Pan, sure, but it is so difficult to find women with strong facial structures that still look fundamentally feminine. There's a very fine line between a woman with strong features and a woman who looks... a bit too much like a man. And you, are the former. You are probably one of the prettiest women I have ever seen. Which probably sounds a bit odd, I apologize. I'm an artist, I can't help but gush sometimes;;;  Anyways! I'm glad you got off of those forums and websites and blocked them because holy cow. 10/10 Top Tier attractive, captivating and just overall pleasing to look at. You are artistically inspirational.  And I love your fashion sense... I need to know where you get all those drapey robes/shawls/cardigans/etc.
The fac that this is your most viewed video after a small amount of time speaks mountains about young male anger. This shit might blow up worse than we ever thought it might.
Look, I long for rain enough as it is being from SoCal. I don't need to be horny for it now as well.
I'm 5 minutes in and I'm already disgusted and horrified. wtf.
This video was actually amazing. I hit subscribe so fast
I never really took incels seriously, are they serious? Are they real? Oh my god I refuse to believe that.
"i feel like i look like a man , and i worry about it everyday " girl oh my god your SO BEAUTIFUL , like seriously you look more like a woman then i do lol
I'm not an incel but I think words like femoid are just hilarious. Can we pls transition to common use of this word
I like how you make little jokes throughout the video to lighten the mood. Definitely subbed.
I find it funny how too often I've stumbled across trans-women covering topics like this and how they often do such with far more depth.
The funny thing is that these guys think sex is everything and it really isn't, I prefer BJs honestly but different strokes for different folks. Sex doesn't make you any less or any more of a person. I feel bad for these guys but I also don't feel bad because a lot of them seem like terrible people in general.
You look like a girl with turner syndrome. Can't wait till you become another statistic.
I'm VOCEL. If a person who HAS gotten laid can actually call themselves "celibate". People suck. It seems stupid to bother going through all the effort to meet up with someone I'll wind up hating in a few weeks anyways, and running the risk of STDs or them being... "psychologically unsound" (to politely say "psychotic bitch who'll cut my dick off after I find out she's crazy and dump her) JUST so I can make a bag of shit & piss who will wake me up screaming in the middle of the night until they grow old enough to play with fire, bring sickness home from school, steal what money I don't freely give them...  The hell with all THAT shit. Jack handy has no more diseases than I already have (none), wont get knocked up, and wont slit my throat while I sleep.
One day all cells shall begin mitosis.  You shall have a man baby.  Oh wait...
Great video
I think your hands are so pretty and fem. As a natural born woman... I’m jealous of your pretty hands. Lol And your voice is so relaxing too. 🇺🇸💋
I love this in every way. :D
the second half of this video really explains the proana/thinspo community on tumblr as well like dead on point
Do incels ever think of showering to not get diseases? Or not to smell like shit to even yourself? Do incels even wipe their own ass?
God, I love how reflected and well worded everything in this is! Keep up the great work, it's awesome :)
I just realized that you were trans when you talked about it, you really look like a woman :3
So that explains the virgin/chad bullshit memes that popped up in my little circle of the internet. Good fucking god.
I'm tired and those beeps are very loud, please stop
I GOTTA GET MY HETERO ON  This is your best video. I was dangerously close to being an incel at one point so this hits very close to home.
I love her. Such a great job on this, keep up the good work
"the manosphere exists because rock and roll is dead" holy shit truth bomb.  amazing video miss!
The Romantic movement suddenly makes both more and less sense
i love youuuu 😍😍😍
This... is amazing! I love it.
The fact you actually explain both sides of these issues and give level headed reasoning for why these people do what they do is so refreshing.  I hate when people write off other groups as just fundamental wrong or insane, when really there's almost always a very valid reason as to why those people feel the way they do, regardless of how 'wrong' those feelings may actually be.  No one does anything for no reason.
First Time Watcher here. A friend recommended me this Video, because she thought I needed to hear it. I can relate to a lot of the Problems Incels face ( not the hateful ones) and I'm also trans. I have been drowning in self pity for so long that I couldn't even Imagine that there is another Way to live. Your Video was amazing (I subbed btw) and I will really try and do something against it.
Well I recently had my own experience to which I believe I can see how young males would be driven to these kind of groups. In my experience I was trying to argue that a dress code has a point, and was absolutely blasted then banned for expressing an opinion.  In their counter argument this group of very left (or social justice warriors) people was actually defending pedophilia over sexual equality. I found it ridiculous, reported them and have parted ways after facing much personal harassment. Mind you this was a group of approximately 90% women, all initiating very personal attacks and ignoring my opinion which I expressed with a case example. It's so frustrating when trying to talk about a legitimate issue and someone argues purely with emotion to the point of bringing up complete fallacies and contradictions. This experience has left me very down as it was largely a group that promotes being open and understanding but it totally turned that on it's head as soon as you disagreed with the popular majority. I felt totally betrayed from a group that was supposed to be about enjoying video games had turned into a political agenda movement.  So that's my experience.
That cold open was so uncomfortable lol
Wow, I'm so happy I found your channel! You are absolutely amazing.
Speaking for myself, the firing squad of ducks is scary...  But then again most things scare me. XD  Edit: ducks is a typo, but it's such a funny typo so I'm not changing it.
This is.... amazing
Lel, my dad was made fun of by some dumb ladies in his youth because he knew how to make jam out of fruits like his mom taught him. He’s also been bald since his late 20s because genetics. And guess what? He didn’t let that get him down and eventually found a woman who isn’t superficial. Has been married happily for about 20 years now and they’ve been living together long before that. Obviously got laid too, living proof right here. Now we’re all living in a beautiful house with a garden and in that garden, we have a peach tree that’s so full every year that we all get into the kitchen and make peach jam out of the peaches we can’t eat and have a laugh at his old stories.
We have to talk about the impact or influence of neoliberal ideology (and individualism) upon the kind of transactional, “perpetually correct” thinking of the incel community, which believes it *deserves* to be consoled without making any changes in their own behavior. So used to be told as a consumer that whatever they think and believe and desire is right and ideal, incels have fallen prey to the (un)ethical structure that defines neoliberalism, wherein all human action and exchange can and should be understood through the logic of market exchange. Much more to explore here.  (I’m thinking of Peter Coffin’s “perpetual correctness” here.)
The use of “hon” in the trans community reminds me of how it’s used in the anti-MLM community. You should do a video on MLMs haha.
U hot m8
I'm a cis woman and I'll never squeeze out life either; did you know you have take care of that shit after? Fuck that noise!
Very well done and thank you for sharing your experience.
I'd like to go out with you. 😊👍
The voice hybrid of mickey mouse and winnie the pooh, that made me laugh. Subscribed.
I just find you by accident and I LOVE your style!  The setting, the video, gags and your own style  Its so amazing an unique. I love it *0*  Btw. You look soo gorgeous :)
Instant subscribe
This is excellent. You are excellent.
how did it take me this long to realise she is trans.... Oh well
The tone of the entire video makes fun of their viewpoints, treating them like they're stupid for thinking the way they do.   This is not the way to convince someone of your way of thinking. It's how you get someone that MIGHT have had their mind changed to click away from the video in the first 3 minutes.    The first 8 minutes of this are heartless and savage. Very typical "Cry me a river" type stuff instead of actually showing some empathy for incels (which they need in order to change). That's what drives them deeper into their ideological hole. Maybe start out with something like "listen guys, I know it's tough...you lost the genetic lottery and I feel for you- let me try and expand your viewpoint on this a bit..."  before you go on to tell them how shitty they are for being frustrated.   You say at 10:14 that "since most heterosexual men do end up in a relationship with a woman..."- Do you have a source for that statement? Far more men than you might imagine never end up in a relationship, even though they want one. The fact that women tend to choose their mates based on financial and physical prowess can be proven statistically.   Alimony payments are real, and painful. Many, many men are forced to pay child support for children that aren't even theirs. This can be proven statistically, though I'm sure you think that's just hilarious.    If the point of this video is to convince incels to get some help and change their way of thinking, you chased away 90% of them in the fist few minutes. If the point was to point and make fun of them, you did a great job, but then again, did it do any good?   But whatever, got the clicks and the views, right?
God that intro was sinister. Nice job 👍
I dont know why my feed decided this was the time to let me know you exist, but I'm glad it did. Subbed  <3
Very nice video, I finally realize the danger of the red pill, mgtow and such communities, I’ll be more careful about those for now on. I remember when I watched alot of mgtow videos everyday I was depressed af
As a 43 old man who hasn't had a single woman in his life, I feel like your video is more than a little bit condescending. Fortunately for me, while I perused those kinds of forums for a while (this was called for love shy at the time in 2009), I quickly realized what, not only, I wouldn't find there and that I needed, but, aslo, the things that I didn't need but found anyways.   Now, I can try to understand and, as an empathic person, even more than partially understand where this particular video is coming from but, however, while you might have pointed out a few specific problems with these communities, it doesn't adress the core problem at large ... and that is the great lack of empathy that is pervasive in the world today.    How did we come to this point? well, it started with Capitalism or, rather, what is wrong with Capitalism, that is, the unbridled acquisition of fortune (and not just monetary fortune by the way but, also, woman, men, love partner, status, selfishness and the willingness to "see" that stomping upon others to get what you want is a "wisdom" in itself ... and please note the quotes there).   As someone who never really knew the touch of a woman, I can tell you not that is generating a lot of angst but, the worst part of it is the general view, preconceptions and stereotypes associated with people "like me".   How did I manage to survive? or even starting to thrive lately? Well, it's "simple" (it certainly didn't feel that way but bear with me), it is simply by discovering myself: not who people think I am or was, not the person I thought I was all those years, but the person I have really been all along ... as well as the one I want to become.   What can of person I want to become? Well, the kind that does not let himself be defined by his pain and struggles ... or rather yes, but not as this inescapable black hole of horrors and despair but, rather, the kind that wear all his wounds, all his scars not as an handicap, a flaw but, rather, as a badge of honor.  True I may feel better and, true, I still some way to go before being completely out of the woods. I am, however,getting there.   What helped me all those years, is that never truly believed what other and myself told about me. That there was something special about me or, rather, something more than worthwhile. And no, not those kind of "snowflake" theory that says you're just special for simply being. But, rather, the kind that was dauntless enough to look deep within himself and accept both the worst but, also, the best part of himself.   It took me not months, not years but decade to finally get to this point. Well, better late than never. And rather than define me by my lack of romantic interaction, I'd rather simply describe me as who I think I am, really am, and who I proved I really am.   Someone generous, and empathic; and intelligent, and honest (to a fault) and brave (still need some improvement here but getting there).   Hum ... sorry, almost forgot to tell something important there:   It's not just the incel forums, or the "TTTT" forums or, any kind of forums that is the problem really but, rather, the pervasive wrong idea that you can only be yourself among other like you. It's done not just on the internet but; also say, in a psychiatric environment where the vast majority of people you see are either staff or, worse, people like you going through tough times.    Said in another way, staying with 'like-minded', while it can help, can also be extremely destructive as the worst part of the group compounds its flaw and it gets worse the more time passes.  What is the solution? Confront yourself with vastly different people, respect them;, their point of views, but also yours and yourself in the process.  And I apoligize for the extreme length of my post, especially in a time where message less than 150 characters long are the norm.   I wish you success in the future even if I don't think like and am not like you (but hey, diversity is part of life right?)
big headed woman right here. love this video so much.
I am SO glad that I came across this video! I already love your personality! This was such a great video!
Wow great video :D
This video has been recommended to me a lot and I never clicked on it, but I finally caved and wow! This was a fascinating take on incels! I really love your outlook and how quality the visuals are! Good job!! :)
As a FEMOID, I would just like to commiserate with you about having a muppety voice. My voice has also been described this way before. I’ve always been teased about it. I’ve had more than one person actually tell me to my face that it’s annoying. But then there are also people who tell me they love it because it’s unique. So....I guess... you know. Whatever.   This also reminds me, when I was maybe 7 yrs old, there was a girl in my class who had a voice so low, it almost sounded like burping noises. So I guess I’m not as unique as I could be. I think she joined a hardcore metal band and is doing just fine.
Finally had the courage to watch it, it was amazing. Thank you.
Wait a sex here. If the uncles believe that their skull structure has something to do with them getting laid, and also understand that those kinds of things are genetic, then one or maybe both of their parents had those genes and maybe even features. It thus follows that they are alive, so would it not follow that their theory here is bullshit because some male in their genetic makeup had to have the same skull structure and still wound up gettin laid?
Good job. This was actually really insightful and intelligent. The self destructive nature of people is always interesting to look at. Can I smell your panties? I think that the people in these communities are just so disenfranchise. They see things like "tinder" and assume that sex and relationships are so easy, and when it doesn't happen to them, they must know why. Very impressive.
Seems like there needs to be a place both online and off where incels can rehabilitate their minds and get some relief. Places where they make some friends who aren’t there just to point out how weak their chin is. groups that help men become more content and confident with themselves, unlike the pickup artist groups they’re drawn to where the only goal is to get laid without helping them to reconcile any internal issues and only cultivates more misogyny. Being involved in toxic groups like r/braincels seems to turn one’s inceldom a self-fulfilling prophecy. We need support groups for these men, brick and mortar, flesh and blood, where they can speak to people offline and actually get some support for how they’re feeling. Instead they’re all talking to each other online, trying to outdo each others self-loathing and bigotry, feeding into each other’s anxieties, and magnifying their insecurities into hopelessness, resulting in suicides and mass murders. It’s becoming a real problem and needs real solutions. I nominate someone like the egg man, who, from what I can tell based on his YouTube channel actually made it out of inceldom, to lead these support groups!
12:20 : green plastic chopping block, bottle of wine in a plastic anti-knock shroud : so in the closet.
I’ve been wondering what old Roosh was up to lately... and I’m so, SO glad I know.
Actually didn't realise you were trans until you brought it up. Granted I had this video up in the background but I looked over every now and then.
That was great! Can you do MGTOW plz!
I am a girls and I have a pretty face and I am slim, but It’s easy to see my Adan’s apple and i feel my head is big. Am I a man?? XD  BTW, i though you were a woman! D: you are amazing
They say “ohh I cant get a girlfriend”, but those are the type of men that send you those aggressive comments...
Mentally ill, that is why you are an expert on this subject.
300k.....
if they didn't spend all this time making these dumbass exhibits and found an interest that women are also interest in then they would get laid. smh.. whining turns women off  AUTOMATICALLY> DUH
This is not just about "getting laid". This is about loneliness. Intimacy can be divided into "into-me-see".
*TINY WRISTS*
Is it possible to surgically change your voice? If so you should look into it. It's the one thing that makes you unbangable to me that aside if I had to bang a tranny it'd be you.
why is it always "soft lips"  lips are always soft lips aren't hard...
My wrists are super tinny, I have to go tell my gf of four years I'm unattractive
Have you ever looked  up orthotropics  or mewing
good thing they won't breed eh? kek
I'm so glad this video popped up in my suggestions. Subscribed within minutes! And if I didn't have 3 assignments due tomorrow I'd be bingeing all your content.
Jesus. These guys are so much weirder than I realized.
This is some good stuff
I'm an obese, mentally unstable, autistic furry. If I can have sex with a woman, and hell, become, in the words of others, 'the living embodiment of confidence, who'd do things no one else would dare do', then honestly, incels have no excuse.  The thing is, I've been where these morons are. I was part of MGTOW, and I heavily bought into a lot of the hate. And honestly, it's true what they say, learning to love yourself and building up self-esteem and self-worth is the first step. Also, as someone else has mentioned, pushing an incel into the adult world often corrects their behaviour by force. In my own case, I went from a cringy, edgy boi 'alt-lite' shitposter who revelled in drama, to a flirtatious, optimistic, apolitical history buff and astronomy nerd with THE BEST HAIR and a taste for Western films.  Now, a few things to clarify. Yes, outspoken feminist women for me are an instant red flag in terms of romantic or sexual interest, because I've never met a vocal feminist who wasn't fundamentally toxic or had serious issues with men. But then again, I extend the rule to ALL people, regardless of orientation. People who's lives revolve around politics are usually obnoxious assholes. To quote the great FilthyFrank, 'it's the internet, who the fuck cares about your opinions?'.
Yo Jordan Peterson has a similar voice lol
First time bumping into your vids, subscribed!
Why did you censor that picture's boobs?
Well... So I stumble onto here and come across someone who understands exactly how I am thinking. Not just thinking it, but capable of understanding. People I talk to don't understand the importance of millimeters. The self hate and loathing whenever I look in the mirror. Thank you for voicing my thoughts so eloquently. xxxx hon. :P xxx
Not gonna lie, that intro was hot. I  just replaced woman by man and it did it for me 😂.  Those incels need to realize that most people will go through dry spells, ugly phases, depression, etc... they should give themselves a break instead of marinating in self loathing. Even the ugliest girl will put on a short skirt, put make up on and try something. Apathy gets you nowhere. Pay a woman to touch you, it’s therapy too.
Honestly, I've seen this thumbnail come up in my suggested videos for months now and ignored it because I assumed based on the lighting that it was some weird ASMR video for incels (I watch a lot of ASMR). I'm so glad I finally clicked on it and watched the entire thing with my girlfriend (Yes, we're in a lesbian relationship, not that it's critical information). You are brilliant.  I'd say, "Keep up the good work", but I can only imagine how much time and energy a video like this takes to research and edit.  I love you, appreciate your work, and please never shut up, is all I'm saying.
Wow, you are lovely.  If I were incel, I'd really be hating you right now.
“Naked...body” The way she said that made me wanna laugh out and spit out water. I love you Contra.
Are incels the modern version of natural selection?
How much abuse you had to witstand to be yourself, so much respect ;__;
I absolutely love how you've set up this classy atmosphere and still manage to perfectly shatter the walls of social barriers with humor and intelligent thought. Stuff like this feels less like a bold attack towards a particular group and more of a deeply thought out satire. I'm not even one for longer videos like this but I'm already into this. Keep it up
I absolutely loved this. The way you speak about the subject, the jokes, the deadpan delivery, the smoldering gaze, the set. Just great. And even though it at times feels like you talk a bit too fast for me, your intonation keeps me mesmerized and you certainly gave me a lot more insight on the topic. Thank you.
Hey.      Im rlly gay Edit:okay im actually rlly bi, Olly's voice is, uhhh, rlly something
tfw female with a virgin walk
hold on... so if incels created an ideology and identity around not getting laid, doesn't this make them kinda voluntary?
I clicked on this video expecting another lame cringe compilation type video full of perpetuating the same type of bullying that contributes to the incel/blackpill mindset in the first place but was really pleasantly surprised by this.
Ia this a tranny
PART ONE  I want to write a series of short essays addressing ContraPoint's  video. I don't expect it to be read because o f the length,  and I fully expect if Contrapoint does read it, I can almost be assured a patronizing investive character assassination as a result. But perhaps, there are one or two people who might receive this message in a bottle and hear another side of the story, I believe is far more objective and not laced with an abundance of sarcasm and insulting digs, as ContraPoint     ContraPoints has created an overly simplistic view of men in something like  crisis. Rather than attempt to objectively examine her many flawed positions in which through shaping anecdotal examples and definitions to fit her own prejudices, (a form of confirmation bias) . (This is not uncommon, because, as is typical,) At no point in her video does she equally mention nor consider for a second, very real and prolific adversarial  mistreatment of men by women. This of not difficult to understand, since mocking derisive contempt for men in general, is so entrenched within mainstream western society, daily depictions and mocking, corrosive abuse towards men in general, is so normal, it is rarely imagined western women and feminism/feminists can do no wrong. Much of ContrPoint's entire video is a long stream of the same patronizing, put downs, invectives, insults, and misandry. Simply concluding as a summery, that men who actually do, what much of present society won't do,  pointing out very realistic attitudes and negative behaviors of women particularly those responsible for creating problems in individual men's lives, is conclusive proof of how pathetic and weak those men are.  So, let's correct her purposeful misconceptions at least about MGTOW., but later.  Realistically, its very unlikely ContraPoints won't read nor respond to this lengthy but necessary reply.  One possibility is, My reply won't be just a stream of insults and uncivil grotesqueries, specifically towards ContraPoints and well,  won't fit the constructed narrative  of MGTOW like myself as essentially sociopathic and psychopathic. There won't be any death threats. Pithy insults about ContraPoint's looks, or condemning jargon about trans, or snide remarks about what defines every aspect of personality, and entire descriptions of her life narrative as though i know precisely the origin of every idea and thought from birth to death. I do not expect the dame civil consideration from her.    So, let's begin. feminists and SJW western women, mostly, has created entire dictionaries of postmodern terminology, which is continually growing and usually, however subjective, forms the bulk of their postmodern terminology. In this version of reform postmodernism, they appoint definitions and meanings to something (dealer's choice) that clearly means one, thing,  (the objective) can suddenly mean whatever one prefers within an accepted postmodern group decides a thing, place, thought, feeling, idea, identity or intent should be (subjective.) Generally if a man questions any aspect of postmodern doublespeak and doublethought indicating objective flaws, the adherents, usually feminists, instantly conclude any doubt or rejection of their version of, well, anything, ---- as evidence of racism, bigotry and homophobia, misogyny and sexism. At no point do they attempt a fair dialogue or debate, yet treat MGTOW or men  refusing to automatically accept their worldview --- as incapable of healthy discourse. Yet an automatic assumption of Misogyny is what many men have come to expect from what is inferred as carefully thought out examination of complex subjects by of men exercising critical thinking  with conclusions based upon objective, observable evidence. There are loads of  instances, which some women do not express nor embrace in practice the infallible virtue and moral superiority often subtexualized or overtly communicated incentally or through declarative intent by most women and feminist as a rule.   For instance, since I'm not a feminist, then, by feminist standards, I must then be a misogynist, end of discussion. The summation added that obviously, I hate women, don't believe in women's rights, believe women are obligated to have sex with men, should accept rape as a normal course of existence, not have access to abortions, do not consider women anything other than objects for sexual pleasure, not think of women as full human beings, and a whole longer list of similar beliefs. Yet, if I am not to be thought of as a sexist misogynist, I MUST then become a feminist or by their constant declarative AM a feminist  if I say, I believe in equality and equal rights,  because according to feminist dogma, I Am A Feminist. Yet if properly examined, one must conclude that feminism and feminist theories, social concepts and gender ideas can only be correctly understood exclusively in feminist terms, which means all other ideas external to its rigid ideological pretenses is inferior, wrong and if based upon any male perspectives, evil, outdated and anachronistic. And no amount of vitriol and derision is spared to mock, trivialize and express near endless contempt for men who think mildly differently. So while feminists support, encourage and practice wholesale misandry to the point of mainstream normalization, any instance of thought and ideas even hinting at positive associations with men is thought, in an automatically assumed sense to be a horrific threat against women in general, thus justifying numerous policies and laws are encouraged to be created, using the post modern feminist dialectic, to produce increasingly punitive results for men for more thoughtcrime than an actual real crime.   My view is I am not a feminist for a simple reason. I can think for myself. My other reason for not being a feminist, is because I refuse to believe contrary to overt feminist conviction, that 1.Feminist/feminist have a monopoly on all higher morality and ethics 2. Feminist/feminism has an exclusive qualification on defining, determining and judging the lived experiences of men's lives better than the men actually living our lives. 3. Me and other men who support concepts of freedom and equality support it as a simple matter of ethics, not feminism.  4. There is a vast difference between feminism in theory (the dictionary definition) and feminism in practice. (special treatment , special laws, special preferential policies, special preferential subsidized state and federal programs, unquestioned universal unreciprocal social and civil deference, repackaged as respect and equality for women.
Now I know, why I always go back to 9GAG/politics. I'm a masochist, apperantly. Ha. Thanks Contra Points.
Being perfectly honest, didn't think you were trans (first time seeing your vids). So, yeah, you pass.
Well that was awesome
"mom the shit out of these kids" is a really valid response wow
2.1k incels disliked this vid
Rip blackops2cel
y o u   a r e   a   g o d d e s s
Totally agree about the ocean!!! 🌊
The picture of you at 28:44 is really beautiful. ❤️
That first bit was a great example of what's actually going on with Incels
i wonder...Im 5'6 inches tall..I weigh around 240lbs Ive never measured my wrists or my forehead..but id say they are prolly off also..and I still have managed to secure the loss of my virginity before death.  Im not really sure why the incel community is so concerned about their physical makeup..and of course one thing ive seen that they all have in common...the incel NEVER..believes its their personality thats the issue..lol
Damnit! I was intrigued by everything you did until the skull analogy. It's just an adage, not a law, I know you know this but you are still doing it wrong.  Just as Godwin's Law is an adage pertaining to the misuse and wet-firing of Nazi arguments, that can itself be misused, so is Foppingtons adage sometimes a misused tool to justify a counter argument, that has no root or stem in vicinity of the air you are chopping.   And when it comes to skulls, I mean, god damn, these guys are mostly talking about facial features. Features proven scientifically to affect likability, even from infants. https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC2566458/  Your get-up and expression made me expect a tough but fair assessment, but now I assume that you are trying to vent a bias, perhaps emotional, disguised as a rational retort. Even a broken clock is right twice a day, and if these, often weird, incels are saying anything right at all, it is that appearances and life quality are intertwined.    If you don't believe this then tell me: Why has no woman ever asked a plastic surgeon for an extra chin or more flappy arms?  Why has no man ever, besides perhaps a few World Record holders of height, wished to be shorter?  Why is every single trick in the fat persons book of beauty about mimicking the features of their thinner peers?   No one likes a self-indulging whiner, crying foul over their badly dealt hand(or wrists:P) but your are yourself indulging in the kicking down on a sphere of immature insecurities and sad life stories, using non-constructive and slightly cold arguments sold as rationality. Underwhelming take on the debate.
Should not have watched while eating
"leave my fuckhole out of this"        *subscribed*
You are a goddess. And I'm not just saying that. Also, this was really funny and clever and I'm subscribing. :)
you are fucking brilliant. this video was fascinating.
lol i cannot get laid for 6 years already. pls ende me
the first minute was so so uncomfortable jesus
Tis true im a 3 and my boyfriend is a 9 so fuck yeah!
Gawd this girl is so cult and seductive (screams in brazillian) She made me feel less hatred about incels, and more pitty. BTW most of girls find me atractive because my feminine facial features, i look and act very feminine and don't give a shit, both man and woman crawl at my feet. How did a incel call this?
heart eyes
when the "hons on Reddit" post came up, I pictured an army of fur clad warriors on horseback with laptops, typing long diatribes about the nature of CHIM on r/teslore
Is this a woman?
When that guy was defending himself being a baker I wanted to cry at how ridiculous he was being
I've had my own experiences with incels as a women to know the subjects you've touched on well enough. I know online they seem a lot more innocent obsessing about things like bone structure and their height ( I get it I'm 5'8 it's a normal thing to obsess about) but...my mothering ways diminish there. They're quite toxic to be around in reality to the point a guy I thought was my friend until I rejected his advances was telling me I'd never get a guy, I'm such a stuck up bitch, I'm literally ugly and awful and no one would love me except him and even then he only "put up" with me.  Incels need some professional help. It's not dark humor and they're pumping out mass murderers by the dozen. You make amazing points but they..... have something absolutely wrong they need to fix before expecting love from any woman.   P.s I didn't think you appeared masculine at all. You're absolutely feminine and you radiate it with the way you sit there wearing your jewels and swirl your wineglass. Women come in all shapes and sizes; I dont think you looked at all less feminine because of your bone structure.
You're a genius god bless
Great video
Your an extremely attractive woman.   Lmao I had to get that off my chest. 😂But fr I’m blown away by you and this incredible video keep up the good work.
I took only the first 40% of the black pill
For the record I thought you were born a woman when I first saw you, honestly you just look and sound like an older woman who's been smoking cigarettes for a bit too long
Normally i would be like 'this bitch can go to the gas chambers' but this was legit funny. Incels are fucking idiots.
This was SO clever. I wasn't bored for even one second ❤
👏👏👏👏👏... bravissima.  Smart, funny, thoughtful, and gorgeous.  Good thing I'm married or we'd both be in trouble.  Subscribed.
We are beautiful women, no other words needed..
Although it is obvious that there is no one single factor that created inceldom, I believe that the lack of exercise, lack of real hobbies and pornography have had a deep impact on the male population.   The lack of exercise not only makes the person less attractive, it also lowers their confidence due to a lower secretion of male hormones and lack of accomplishment. It is not for any reason that people who play sports get more women, many men on sports team are facially ugly but they are usually confident and in good shape, which is attractive.   Sexual attractiveness, however, is not the only thing required to be a decent person, you need to be able to talk about something that interests you. Incels spend their lives on the internet without ever accomplishing something that is actually worthwhile.   Finally, the nail in the coffin and longest part, is pornography. Although I am very aware that you believe that sex is fun and harmless, it is not the entirely the case for pornography. Not only does it create a delusional standard of women for men but it also acts as a drug for them (and women too mind you). If you take that your baseline of dopamine (which is responsible for happiness) is 100, an orgasm brings you up to 200 at it's peak and then slowly crawls back down. What does this do then? He is obviously much happier? Unfortunately, he "is" happier but his brain has secreted a lot of dopamine. This means that for a few hours he will be above baseline and if he attempts to do any task that does not secrete a high amount of dopamine, he will not find any joy in doing work. Dopamine is the reward center: if I complete a task. like a math problem, my brain will release dopamine and make me happy. What happens if you try to do work after jerking off is that you will find that absolutely nothing interests you because whatever minuscule amount of dopamine that is released when you complete a task will be too small to make it worthwhile the effort compared to rubbing your meat watching some overly sexualized talking sex toy getting plowed by some rich guy with a penis bigger than your wrist. So, due to this, he never really achieves anything productive except shitpost and jerk off. It is a real plague that no one wants to address seriously, even by you, and this is one of the consequences of it. Females aren't overly picky, males are just getting lazier and uglier and it is their fault for not changing the way that they are but also because no one has ever told them about the consequences of their actions which are normalized by others.   If anyone has managed to read through my unedited blog post and is somehow an incel: please hit the gym, eat well, read more and stop masturbating like you're a cow in a dairy farm. God speed anon.
You're getting facial fem surgery?? Legit thought you already had.
I want Nathalie to hug me and talk about the sea all night long
Subscribed.
Qué maravilla.
Like others, I was dragged into watching this because it's actually really thoughtful and well put together. I really need to say, though, that I *love* all the Chopin waltzes in this. Chopin is my favorite composer, and I don't know if you put them there just to make the video seem "classy" or because you legit also love Chopin, but either way I had decided to watch this whole thing the moment I heard Chopin--no regrets, it was definitely worth watching.
Now I have somewhere to go if I'm bored and looking for someone to annoy. The group sounds like you will need the Urban Dictionary to understand them truly.
This is amazing, omg. Immediately subscribed
You know what's sad? Men who are insecure about their small wrists. Like, all that it means is that you're an ectomorph or that you have some ectomorph qualities. It also means you're more than likely are able to form some really impressive muscles if you tried, ectomorphs apparently have the "ideal" muscle structure. So even though its longer and harder for ectomorphs to build muscle than endomorphs or mesomorphs, once properly built, ectomorphs have muscles that are longer and more efficient than everyone else's. They really have an opportunity to be super masculine (in appearance at least) if they didn't focus on the fact that their wrists are "so" small.
Typical white conservative male here. Slowly but surely learning to accept the trans community, typical sjw videos make it hard but your sanity and realness makes it possible. Well done
that outro just sounds like a euphemism for drowning
Bread scientist
I would like to give my own experience as a "forever alone" on the matter. First, I'm against this "red/black pill" crap and have nothing against women. I support feminism and I'm a leftist, even if I don't like to label my ideology as something specific like Marxist-Leninist. Also, I don't want to seem victimistic, in fact I like taking my shortcomings with humor.   I was never able to be in a romantic relationship, I don't even care about "getting laid" or sex. I'm extremely socially awkward, not exactly physically attractive and my interests are very obscure. I like to think that I'm a nice and respectful person but my behavior and appearance are just... Awkward. I have problems expressing myself both verbally or with body language and can be as stiff and inexpressive as a rock (this is one of the reasons I find it funny being portrayed as a moai) but when I let myself loose it looks like I'm on meth or other sort of drug, the fact that I have chronic bloodshot eyes doesn't help either. I look like the freaking virgin meme, of course I understand why I'm not attractive. I'm aware that I'm awkward and do/say stupid things... After I've done/said them, when interacting with people it feels like my brain just stops working at times.   I've had many bad experiences with women that I liked who laughed at me and manipulated me. But that is just because I'm interested in women; if I liked men probably those experiences would've been even worse. There were also a fair amount of women who kindly explained that they just weren't interested in having that kind of relationship with me but rather than avoiding me afterwards like I was the plague (a lot of them did that), they still talked with me. I considered all those women who rejected me to be nice people (why would I like them in the first place if I didn't?) but after their reactions I realized some were nicer than others, at least when treating with me.  It was very heartbreaking and made me feel like garbage for as long as I cared. I felt like the chocolates that are always left in the box because they suck and no one wants them. I can understand why other people with this problem would become desperate and embrace things like this "incel" community but I don't, by any means, justify their ideas or actions and find them disgusting.  In the end I just accepted this uhm... Condition, and didn't bother trying to get involved in a romantic relationship, ignoring the matter completely. I have been a lot happier and secure of myself since I gave up and realized that I was just constantly walking into a wall. And no, being more secure didn't magically result in people suddenly liking me; I'm still a weirdo, a proud weirdo, but a weirdo.  Nowadays I just handle this matter with humor and with my friends me being the perfect example of how NOT to be attractive is an inner joke at this point. Some people still say this to me trying to be offensive but now that I don't care it can hardly offend me. The point is, I had to get rid of my whole interest in romantic relationships because for more than 20 years I was never able to find someone interested in me due to my nature (awkward and ugly, lol). This could be my fault for not adapting to society's standards but some things I can't change of the way I act, like stumbling over my own words when I talk or subconsciously avoiding eye contact. Professionals call this autism but for me its just being different and dealing with the consequences, which in my case was being unable to find a partner.
would you consider making videos talking only about the sea, please
14:37 wait hold up... Why does a post saying that someone is gonna kill themselves got an 81% upvote?!
I love you why haven't i seen ur vids before??
This is so terrible.  Incels are like stuck in a black and white view. So many manufactured thoughts taken over in their minds.
Wow, simply wow!
"How dare you say things that are entirely true?"
First time viewer.  The way she explains it so in-depth I've see a lot of good ideas in the incel world.  I am completely on board with their ideas about genetics.  It's completely true.  But as someone who has a physical genetic muscle disorder bad genetics doesn't matter.  I have physical deformities, weak muscles, a lazy eye, severely deviated septem but I've been with plenty of women and had very close relationships.  I lost my virginity at 15.  So these incels can all find love if a mutant like me can.  You know what gets women to notice u?  Doing your own thing.   No woman can resist a guy just minding his own business trying to accomplish something.  The times I had the most women chasing me was when I was too busy for women and not concerned with sex.  The more u want it the more u worry about it the less it will happen for u.  Women are like cats.  If u call a cat if never comes to u.  If you sit on the couch and forget about it then it will lay down next to u.
My best friend and I fall down various internet rabbit holes from time to time (many times it has been about incels, actually) and she sent me this video. This is probably the best investigation into this shit that I've ever seen. I love you. And I, too, love the erotic embrace our dark mother ocean.
lel at haters, as a trans individual, you're great, and people don't give a shit about me, its awesome how little people care outside of internet hate circles
Wow, they're superficial and overly gloomy and mean, I just can't understand why no one would want a relationship. And misogynistic, ladies we have MISSED out! 🙄
I absolutely love learning about incels. They're so fascinating to me. Thank you for this video, it's what I'll send to all my friends when they ask me to explain inceldom.
Holy moly this was great
this was a masterpiece
Wait, so there's apparently a scale for attractiveness? Huh. And here I thought it was subjective. Silly me.
It sounds like these guys think that sexual intercourse is the one and only way to be happy. Any woman you find will bore you to death unless you put your mind into creating actual companionship.
what a good video
my mind has seriously been opened. i've been very ignorant, but thank you for making this video. your explanation was highly understandable and very compassionate. the effort you put into lighting and editing was incredible. truly one of the most important videos on youtube.
she kinda sounds like the high elves in oblivion
I came here to learn about incels and left wanting to have sex with a transbian on the beach in the rain.
I'd swipe right and ask if you wanted to bend a dude over the railing. Lol
Very first time ever seeing one of your videos, definitely dope, well done
You're hot. I had no idea you are trans until you mentioned it.
So impressive and touching. Well done my gal, well done.
I love your voice. This is an excellent video. Thank you ma'am.
Forming social relationships when you develop depression can be awkward, especially if you struggled to make friends back when you were mentally and physically fine. Just being nice to people can go a long way. On so many occasions I've overheard guys going "how does a guy like that, get a girl like that", when I'm merely friends with a woman that I'm attracted to and they see us together. It's as if so many men can't understand that women are people just like they are, they instead view them as a nice piece of pussy. A lot of men have terrible social skills; I dress up sometimes in private and occasionally have people trying to hit on me that have no clue that only saying "LOL you're funny" isn't the kind of response I was hoping for after typing multiple paragraphs in an attempt to work out if they're safe or not and to build some sort of connection before potentially hooking up with them. Some people just want to deny any accountability and blame others, rather then themselves for their lack of relationships. As someone who dresses up, I know what makes me attractive by basing that on what I find attractive in others. I personally think I look much better dolled up as a woman, then as my regular male self, so finding people willing to sleep with me isn't too hard; it's just a matter of finding the motivation to present myself a certain way, that still maintains who I am as a person while getting my kicks. I think I may have rambled too many different thoughts into a single paragraph.
Wow, I'm really impressed with the quality of these videos, not to mention how reasonable and empathetic you manage to remain.
Do you have any recommendations on books, sites, or sources of information that help you be informed enough to tackle issues like incels and the other topics you cover?
Omg your content is amazing 😭♥️
I'm so happy that you've introduced me to the inherent eroticism of the sea
Ah, this was a fascinating dive. Especially coming from your perspective. Bringing up internet self harm, I've always wondered why a large amount of people participate in those r/roastme forums. Maybe to own their insecurities or be aware of the worst someone could say to them? I've never felt it was healthy. But as far as isolation, I know all about it. If you are in that state of mind, I absolutely agree. Stay off reddit, 4chan and tumblr unless you're temporarily looking for porn or something. I think you are a little off on the red pill definition though. That's more wide ranging than incels and from my experience, is used more when someone breaks away from the media or group thinktanks like Twitter.
As a person who is only interested in girls you m’lady, are fine as hell. But also thanks for this video! Been wanting to know more about incels since I’ve been seeing them all over.
All I can say about INCEL is how can you expect someone to love you if you can't love yourself to begin with.
Fascinating. Great host!
youtube content is so much better than TV, its a shame they can't figure out how to properly pay content creators.
"U look fine u stupid idiot" - Jason 'Mew2King' Zimmerman
Dysfunctional as I am in terms of dating and romance, I am still absolutely floored that there's a community of people who unironically think like this. When I first heard about incels, I was absolutely certain it was a meme. I was dead wrong.
this intro makes me so fucking uncomfortable that i want to die
*all of a sudden I don’t feel so bad about my sex life*
You, Lady, are gorgeous.
The best idea to life your life is going MGTOW and don't care for anybody else than your family and friends. Fuck society, this is my life and I spend it like I want. Don't work yourself to dead for an unthankfull women and kinds, instead work as less as it is possible, have your hobbies, your sport, your friends. If you need sex, then use Tinder but never buy a cow if you just want a glass of milk...
What Contapoints is saying about the mental affects on your subconscious and the thrill of anxiety reading this stuff I have experienced first hand. There is something exhilarating about absorbing the emotions and terminology of these people, and the feelings of doubt that say “Am I really like them?” Its frighteningly seductive.   Humans are social beings, and young people are searching for their identity and will easily harmonize themselves with whomever they are with, I have experienced this all my life and I am just starting to realize that I need to get out of it and develop myself, but I have only just come to this conclusion. I have had scraps of insight here and there, but this realization has only solidified recently.  From what I understand, the redpill has some merits in terms of promoting self reliance and healthy skepticism, but it takes it way too far. It turns complex individuality into an us-vs-them dynamic. It generalizes all women as sluts, whores, manipulative bitches, etc. Its radical, and harmful to most of its followers, descending into the fanatical blackpill, which robs its members of their own identity, making them part of the group. Its also a cop out, saying “I’ve had a bad experience with women, so I’m going to go my own way, to hell with the entire opposite gender.”  This fanaticism can be seen in other organizations like Radical Islam, Westboro Baptists, Charles Manson’s following, Antifa, Neo-Nazis, KKK, Scientology, NXIVM, the list goes on. Its cruel, manipulative, and sadistic because these people are in a vulnerable place in their lives and are looking for comfort and community, and instead are enslaved into self destructive ideology that robs them of their hope and their introspection, which they need to improve themselves and bring themselves happiness.   This was a great video, thank you.
This is great, 5 stars. Humorous, informative, classy, Killing it.
I just accidentally stumbled across this channel and I fucking love it
you are beautiful...just reminding.
I'm a 24-year-old virgin and I only hate myself :)   I'm a seriously pathetic person, I was born with a platinum spoon in my mouth but instead of using my assets to elevate myself I used them as a license to be lazy and worthless. I despise the person I've been since about 16 and I feel pretty terrible about coming of age without coming of age at all. I'm sort of archetypal adult infant but because I'm a privileged little shit I still get a great job instead of a better candidate with poorer parents. None of my accomplishments are truly my own. Every single achievement came with a leg up over normal people.   I'm just missing half the social skills of a normal adult and I am such a coward, I haven't even started to go about trying to fix that. At the end of the day, I wouldn't date me, why should anyone else? Maybe one day I'll feel differently but right now I'm just a nightmare. No one wants to be around someone moping about the reasons they hate themselves while refusing to do anything to fix it. It's infuriating.    On one hand, this incel stuff horrifies and saddens and scares me. I'm sure they have made things even more difficult for people like me going forward. But at least I know there are people I am better than and there are a lot of them. My pain has increased my ability to empathise with people. I'm sure I miss 90% of what people are going through but if I'm not feeling sad about myself I'm feeling sad for the people that are worse off than me. That definitely includes survivors of sexual assault. Thinking about when people don't survive is something I've stayed up crying about. The incel response to the pain is to stop empathising with women. To have these viewpoints that ALL women are this way or that way or that women are undeserving of the right to say no takes a real lack of heart.   I do place a little bit of blame on the "you are pathetic if you are a virgin" culture we live in. Frankly, it's true that being a virgin into your 20s if you don't actively choose to abstain is pathetic. Wetting the bed if you are older than 12 is pathetic. However, in both cases belittling the person and making them acutely aware of the fact that they are something people cringe at is maybe the least useful course of action. Emotional support might be better but the ugliness of the incel community makes it understandable that people are not going to do that.
No doubt, your appearance is a huge factor on whether you will get laid or not. In many cases, a good appearance overshadows a good character. And that might as well be a skull thing, or wrist size, or whatever. This is valid for both genders. However, if you can't exceed in appearance, exceed in character. It is a far harder path, but it's doable. Be the best person you can be, don't lose hope, and thing will work out eventually.  You can start be not judging women or men, cause they like ATTRACTIVE people. It's just natural. And if it doesn't work out still - don't worry about it. There is more to life than getting a woman/Man, so don't make your whole life circle around that. Guitars are awesome.
Mouse utopia
And no, an incel is the precise cardinal opposite of a pickup artist.
In every time period, men that don’t, can’t or aren’t competent enough to get women are the least liked class of person for whatever reason.
Wasn't Roosh V the guy who wanted to start meetups for men to discuss how to make rape legal? Also, you're a beautiful lady!
Hahaaaa :,D Tyrones *dead*
You are beautiful and your content is awesome. Keep it up!
This is a great video
That's definitely a man right?
"I'm still attracted to...cats..."  Aren't the the best people? Also shiny shawl! *heart*
why is it that when repugnants feel frustrated they fill their right-hands with either meat or metal, easier than thinking i suppose  self pity is rarely attractive, ldar, better would be if they were to esad
I don't know who you are or where you came from. I just stumbled onto your channel but I am here forever. "BREAD SCIENTIST" **SNORT**
And yet you blew thousands upon thousands of dollars not just on transforming your body to fit your gender dysphoria, but on the vanity of beauty qua plastic surgery...
This video randomly popped up on my recommended page and its the first video ive ever seen of yours and after 5 minutes i had to sub which is a lot faster then i usually do. You my dear are hauntingly majestic♥
I think I love you
I LOVE YOUR MIND! And I love how u veil the most hard-hitting truths and implications behind comedic takes. Simultaneously drawing attention to  and concealing them. A true empathic intellectual <3
Idk I heard the sea has crabs
content notice: written and spoken graphic sex description until 1:05
I love laughing at Incels.
14:15 about 6 years ago I got that look at a geek party after shouting "Who fucking cares what Tumblr thinks?"  In retrospect i'm kind of proud of myself.
If you haven’t banged the sea today, please do so.   If you have banged the sea today, why? Why would you do that?
I really enjoyed this video. I wish you the best in your transition :)
Yours is such an interesting take on this topic.
*Ultra masculine baker*
I'm just cruising U-tube,  WTF is this ?
I *literally never* see the incel worldview played out in the world I'm in...it's terrifying how what people believe is true can become true for some of them in the form of delusion...terrifying...
I had nooo idea you were trans till you said something. You're so beautiful! Amazing points. I enjoyed watching. Subscribed!
This was the most weirdly pleasing video-
Incels are basically just heterosexual men who don't happen to have the attributes that most women look for. That's it in a nut shell. I know that these incel forums become echo chambers of resentment, but making up all these tropes, based on what some incels do or say, is no more than cherry picking or stereotyping.
Chadpreet😂😂😂
Why did you call Jordan Peterson a sexist for absolutely no reason?
MY MAN TYRONE
I'm a woman with a bigass head that means I gotta find special websites with hats for the 'large headed woman' and pay extra for a hat that will fit my watermelon cranium. But also this video was absolutely terrifying to watch, as I was only vaguely aware of the surface level of incel beliefs like hating women, believing men deserve a woman, the chad stuff, etc, i had no idea about this odd bone structure thing or the cringy racist nicknames they have for each other. I hesitate to commend you for reaching out, but the only way they can heal from this is to pull themselves out of the holes they're in, with everyone else in the hole telling them to stay in the hole, it's hard to get out unless someone outside the hole reaches out.
I think you are awesome! I'm not a bad looking guy, I'm a blend of a nerdy coomic book guy, meshed with a pot smoking union construction worker. But, I've realized that I love women. And I've lived with many beautiful women. But I've been fucked over by all of them. So, I sympathize with these incels. I'm at the point where I think women just want money and a hot guy. But date douchelords! But just want a "nice guy" I call bullshit! But you're hilarious! And fuck all the assholes, who are fucktards.
Stop throwing your phone I can't like your video more than once.    Real talk I was iffy about this video at first, especially because it just randomly appeared in my recommendations, but it kept getting better and better. Thank you for all of this, both the funny and the serious and important stuff.
I'm an Incel, by definition, but at least I know how to be by myself.
Maybe they're like this because women like you excist (this is a joke I realize how cheesy this is)
I LOVE this!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! You are sooo awesome!
I no longer need astrology, thanks to modern phrenology.
the straights are out of control
uhhhh so u remind me of morrigan from dragon age 💕
In what way are incels and MRA's in the same category?
You are so eloquent when you speak wow
You're incredible, Natalie!!
Literally couldn't tell at all you're trans
Contra's humour is saying "eroticism of the sea" and then making sultry noises looking at sea pics xD I just LOVE THIS CHANNEL
The guy who was holding a book and looks like he is getting off explainibg things is 100x times more attractive for that. I mean good looks have limits. If the person has interests, a personality, empathy and kindness you know you like them.
Contra you are so intelligent and beautiful.
I realize this means nothing coming from a straight female stranger, but I think your current face is quite pleasant 🙂 Btw, I enjoyed this vid immensely
They should just find a real hobby
I'm learning a lot about skulls today.
Uh, this was outstanding.
This was funny, insightful and intelligent. You got a subscriber from me.
Lmfao so I'm a "Tyrone"? TIL, but I'm throwing hands with anyone that tries that with me. Though empty sex with a bunch of women gets old… really quickly yo. After a while, you just want to have sex with the same woman twice. Then you just want to have the same woman around you consistently, even if it's in a platonic context. 4/10, would not recommend.   You *probably* should've kept the hon thing outta the video tho. It's some terms that just aren't for us cishet folks. Like bussy. Introduce straight folks to bussy, and we'll ruin it very quickly.
oh my fucking god that opening narration is the worst fucking thing
you’re so beautiful ughhgjjh aesthetics on fucking fleek and your voice is so soothing
fifth base: (whispers)anal
I didnt even know you were trans until you said you were.
Educational and entertaining. Awesome.
tfw no understanding tranny gf. im ready to end it buddy boyos. its over
It's strange to see how many sad and bitter people forums seem to attract, but it makes sense now that I realize that not a lot of them get too much social interaction irl.  I started most of my regular internet forum use through sites like 4chan, but looking back on it, I don't think it was such a good idea after all. Initially, all the hateful stuff was just trolling, but a lot of people just slowly started to believe in it after some time. It was a good decision to just kind of ditch it, because the discussion was never going anywhere. Everyone was just seeking attention by being as inflammatory as possible to get more replies. I think incels also do this on some level. A lot of the posts seem to be trying to just out-depress each other. People can get addicted to the rage or sadness that it produces.  Btw, what is the name of that hairstyle you're wearing in the majority of the video? It looks fab!
I know this isn't the point of the video but hearing you describe the ocean and the rain made me want to watch you do asmr videos or even audiobooks. Your voice and demeanor is just really soothing.
this was so interesting and informative! thank you!! <3
A life of cuckoldry got me dead
Imagine: 4 desperate boys feels need to have a girlfriend for many reason (but probably lonely or jealous) targeting 1 girl in their class (because she is the only single girl left close to them)....1 is a obsess stalker, 1 need to near her in every way he can managed, 1 just being a creep watching without blinking from a far and last really want to do some sexting and want nudes to jack off. Can you see how much the pressure for the girl to be around them, because they're her classmate and have to stuck with them until graduation. *yeah, let me out of this shit*
For the first half of the video I did not for a second think you were a trans woman <3 honey you are gorgeous
Outstanding
In my 20 years of experience I always see attractive women with ugly men, all the time. Men have the highest standards they want to use women for sex. Most women are not like that.
Well, looks like I’ve found a new channel to binge on. This video was amazing.  Honestly something I find most disturbing about the incel lot is that I can easily imagine an alternate universe where I ended up like them. 18-21 year old me was not a happy boy and was a pretty angry, spiteful little bugger. But shortly before I turned 22 I got a new job, working with proper grown ups and learning how to better communicate. Shortly after I joined a gym because said job had caused me to pile on the weight. But the gym, naturally, led to me getting in good shape, building up confidence and becoming better still at communicating, forming great friendships and just generally becoming happier.  I really do have some sympathy for them. Not for their shitty world views or unwillingness to self-improve. But for the feeling of hopelessness that led to that position in the first place. I don’t doubt that countless incels were victims of bullying growing up. And that’s fucking awful. No one should go through it. It by no means justifies any shitty attitudes or actions. But still, I sympathise.
i didn't know you were trans in the beginning, and im not gonna be that asshole like "oh man you dont LOOK trans" cause thats bs but knowing youre trans legitimatly adds some amazing commentary to your point, i loved it!
What happened to people? is this the legacy of 2018?
Lol Contra, how the FuCk did you get me aroused by an ocean! XD
Sex and happiness are def not the same
This is a fantastic video, you are so funny! I’m actually blown away that somebody actually pointed out what I’ve been doing. I’ve been on red pill reddit even though it’s nasty because there really is a rush from seeing brutal “honesty” instead of what you perceive as sugar coated lies. Wow
I don't know how I found you but I'm happy lol
yikes get these guys some serious therapy
I adore your voice. Its such a nice soothing tone. I find I'm watching your videos just to hear your voice and find calm.
tfw you meet a guy who's really nice and down to earth but just can't get over his tiny wrists...
Thanks for this video. I didn't have enough resistance to cringe to wade through their forums and see what it is they talk about.
I initially clicked on the video expecting some laughs but holy crap this video legit moved me.
after watching this video I started watching more of your other videos and I love your use of classical orchestral music
You’re so hot. Like damn
Im so impressed :3 love ur voice and faceeeeeee.
I just died at the "ASMR" bit with the skull. The whole video so far has been brilliant, insightful. and quite empathetic. I'm not even done yet! Great work.
i fucking love you - [the inherent eroticism of the sea]
Divine city!! Love the hairspray reference :-)
this was a well researched great video. and youre absolutely beautiful!!
"The manosphere exist because Rock and Roll is dead"  that was really brilliant I laughed out loud  that sums it up that sums it all up so brilliantly
22:20 HNNG ASMR
Thanks for this. Haven't been part of that culture since before it was mainstream, but the despair end hasn't gone away. This helps.
The incel rebellion Just started!
Incel’s need to smoke some weed
my penis finds you attractive and you have a soothing voice
Nott gonna lie, I’ve been considering falling into this shit. This honestly is sorta helping me sorta wake up ig??
this was...a lot more in depth than i was expecting, not just the vicious bashing i was expecting. and a lot of it really hit close to home for me, because i can easily see how i could've gone down that path, and became like them...back when i was in high school, i was one of those awful "nice guys" who did everything "right" to be "respectful" to women, but then expected that that meant i should get a relationship, or sex out of it, and became very frustrated when it did not work that way. in fact, the way most girls acted towards me, combined with a lot of my female friends coming out of the closet, led me to hate myself simply for being a man. i wanted to transition and become a woman, because it felt like that was the only way anyone could like me, because men were the absolute worst. as a man, no matter what i did or said, i felt like i wasnt good enough. it didn't help the girl i liked repeatedly went back to a boy who physically abused her each time. and at the time, it seemed like it worked; when i came out as "trans" suddenly my friend acted supportive, people liked me again. but it didn't last. as awful as incels are, i empathize with them, because i could have easily become one. but instead, i learned from that behaviour, learned to actually be respectful of women, learned boundaries, and ended up meeting someone who, because i respected her feelings, and supported her, and helped her with her struggles, accepted me for who i was, and has stayed with me through even the worst times. i am everything incels hate in themselves: autistic, short, unattractive, not physically fit, not into typical masculine things (i'm a professional dressmaker) but those traits aren't what define relationships, or how compatible people are, unless you let them.  sorry for the rambling comment, this video just...really spoke to me and i felt like i needed to share my thoughts. you've got a new subscriber, i think
Good stuff :) found a new favorite channel
I love her so much
Damn!!!! I really like this video. Hope you keep doing this material for a looooooooong time!!!
"You'll never know what it's like to squeeze life out of your sacred passage." And there's another one for my list of quotes I must one day use. That should chalk it up to about seventy-three.
Subscribed
Hey Miss Contra, you won't see this comment, but I just wanted to say I'm happy that you were able to recognize when you were falling down the hole of digital SH and could get yourself out. That's awesome. I used to spend most of my time on reddit looking for bigots to argue with and it had a different but comparable effect--I was anxious all the time, always having imaginary conversations in my head with people in real life like cashiers and bus drivers, and I couldn't stop. Eventually I had to block reddit altogether, and it's done wonders for me.
all of these amazingly worded arguments all I can think about is sexy rainstorms, love you queen
Lol... bread scientist
I would to debate you on Inceldom. More information can be found in this thread: https://incels.is/threads/i-want-to-debate-contrapoints.88141/#post-1691885   I just want to apologize in advance for the transphobia in the thread. I am not the person saying those things.
lol the "bread scientist" roast was amazing.
Chad memes are kinda cool tho
I learned so much
FFFFFEEEEEEEMMMMMMMMMMOOOOOOOOOIIIIIIIIIIIDDDDDDDDDDD
Jesus, a lot of this incel stuff reminds me of my years in the emo side of instagram... so much depression and self hate circle jerking going on there, all masked as "support"
Oh my god... a youtuber from Baltimore?!? Now I can stalk you~   (I am totally kidding, you are awesome)
You get a like for pointing out most incels arent white. Have a nice day.
why haven't i clicked on this earlier, this is great.   also i never knew how much internalized transphobia there is, shit's gross.
Hi, I really loved your video essay and thought you brought up interesting points. I am currently doing research for my master thesis with a similar theme (how does online hate speech effects women), so I was ecstatic to have found and watched this video. I just subscribed to your channel and will watch future videos. BTW, on a side note, despite what you may think about yourself, I think you look very beautiful and, although I don't know you personally, you are someone I would like to get to know in real life and hang out drinking coffee and talk about various topics.
I'm a step away from creating a cult in your name. Your words are aural nourishment.
*Why is no one talking about Paris Hilton?!*
late to the party but it's weird to see /tttt/ discussed outside of its own parameters. I don't think it's a good place, and I wouldn't recommend people go there, but there are some nice people on there. I wouldn't even disagree with the equivalence of it to self-harm if it was more fully discussed. I understand it's on 4chan, but there are oases on that site, and while they aren't untainted I think they are more complex than is intuitive to portray them as. These two sentences seem in conflict with each other and I tried to think about the cognitive dissonance of them in tandem and I came to a conclusion about, I guess, myself. In this video you mention the ideological " hugboxing" that is present in the the trans community. I think I am more sensitive to my perception that that is happening than I am to the opposite, the worst of the /tttt/ transphobia and aggressive negativity. In fact, I revel in some of it, since it gives me a heads up to any transphobic rhetoric that may be employed and let's me research and learn how to counter it (that or succumb to the siren call of pimozide). The aggressive negativity for its own sake is bad in a way I don't really care for at all, but I think it's overstated here. Even the "post your photo/passgen" threads on /tttt/ are accused of "hugboxing", and while I think that accusation is mostly vacuous there, it's not as if the feedback people receive is blanket negative. In fact, I've been told some nice things that have made me feel better about myself, and better still knowing it was from a place that would be less likely to engage in the problems with "hugboxing" you noted. 4chan was a site i started using when i was around 13. I think people that in some way feel disconnected with society tend to end up there. It has a surprisingly high trans population, which I don't think is a coincidence, and I think it's people that used it through their repressing years and suddenly find themselves in a position of needing to accept they're trans that turn to /tttt/. I still wouldn't defend it as a healthy thing, but I think some nuance can be lost by forgetting how unpolitical the site was pre-GamerGate and pre-2016. Edgy and childish, sure, awful probably in ways I don't even remember through my more naive (or alternatively willfully edgy) lense of young teen, but this switch to den of alt-right ideology is recent, and even somewhat contained by board boundaries. In conclusion, I'm really a bit trashed writing this so hopefully I don't explicitly contradict myself at any point and hopefully no one reads this anyway ok bye
PLEASE, keep making these content, it's such a remarkable piece of knowledge to have the other point of view, but normally explained
Is there any chance that you're going to do standup comedy.   Because, again, my princess, I am crying with laughter listening to you.  Cheers!
instantly hate myself for clicking this video.
You seem like a smart lady.
Wow..... you’re like... so pretty?????!!! Unfair????!!!! And... so aesthetic????!!!! So beautiful!!??? Uh first time viewer and I’m fuckin hooked
Bro this sounds like an alternate reality story someone could write
I'm a cis woman with, what I tend to see as rather strong facial features. It's mostly my G cup that cuts out my otherwise Andro look. I'm going to say it's my scandi-balka-slavic heritage.  Does this make me a terf? I don't mean for that. I'm trying to relate.
Been an on-again-off-again viewer for a couple years now.  Love your work cause it makes me think.   Also, not creepy, would happily buy you a drink, give you a hug, and listen to a lecture or two.
A very thin line to add is that the black pill isn't exclusive to in-cels, some men (kinda like me) feel this way and are connected to in one way or another in the black pill narrative, however, the rest of the black pill narrative eventually leads to violence. So to conclude, in a way the "in-cel" community are basically the sith lords of our own Galaxy... I liked your video and how it was informative, by some weird definition, I'm technically an incel, however, this doesn't make them violent and want to kill, this happens when the certain incels stray too far from the light and eventually feel pure anger, and thus become pure evil, so to speak. You got my like! Also Milo was a paid troll by the Mercers (energy industry libertarian billionaires who get involved with dark money), sorry for the weird and unnecessary tidbit but YT channel "Some More News" mentioned you so I thought I wanted to make a reference. Also stay pretty!
Did you just assum all Incel’s genders?
#notalldick is the best hashtag
Ok, this made me think... I've heard before that incels claim that women are generally more fuckable then men and such. So, it made me curious - is this really true, could it be that more f-s get d-s then m-s get p-s. So I looked up some statistics from anonymus surveys and it seems like aproximately 74% of both f and m american population in their 30s get to expirience vaginal intercourse. Youg girls have it more then young boys, but old guys get it more then old women.  Just sayin'. oh, and seems average guys have more partners than average girls (7 to 4). So, no, we ain't having it that easy,  inseli mili moji.
jesus this was fantastic. Like terribly, terribly, terribly sad.... But you're presentation was insightful and very informative, immediately subbed
These guys are too hard on themselves. I've seen a lot of hot girls with ugly guys. I think girls are a lot more forgiving of looks than guys.
You can tell that someone has really isolated themselves when they think people still talk about Paris Hilton.
"The inherent eroticism of the sea" I've never slammed the subscribe button so hard in my life.
where have you been all my life?! this is super entertaining!
God imagine being so caught up in your own rhetoric that you have to give masculine reasons for BAKING BREAD.
This is a great channel. I stumbled onto it by suggestion and I am not sorry. I think this speaks to a great deal of problems with Internet forums. You are also incredibly talented and entertaining. I will hit subscribe.
Amazing journalistic work mixed with opinion/personal experience, represented perfectly by the comparison between trans people and incels. Beautiful editing and production, but without seeming disengenuous, always maintaining the feeling of honesty a lot of people crave from "old YouTube". I've never watched your videos before, and haven't even finished this one, but I'm already a huge fan. Refreshing and different, great job.
<3 <3 <3
Never been an Incel, had my fair share of relationships and hook ups but after reading their stuff like the lms theories I have to say that their grim vision of reality and human interaction really gets to your head and ade me obsessed for a short time over body parts that I never thought about before: jaw, chin, chickbones, hair even those fucking wrists, and also this quest to be this mythical creature called chad which apparently can attract any woman in a blink of an eye... glad I stopped, I feel much better.
Women never have big heads.... oh dear god what am I going to do with my XXL head??? I kid you not, I tore my mother asunder on my way out. Very much have female genitalia.
Well incels all have "300+ IQs" so naturally they're well versed in Hubbard, and Heavens gate literature.
EU AMO UM CANAL AAAAA
Damn, now I want to make a sci-fi porn movie titled "Planet of the Femoids" or something like that.   Also: this was an amazingly informative and thought-provoking video. Subscribed.
I like your voice!
Chadpreet  Oh my  “Chang”  O h. My  Tyrone   oooooHhh My
@ContraPoints , you are brilliant. You're a Lady and I totally adore your courage. Takes a lot of courage to be a lady and only a few men grasp it. Thank you.
Love the video. Incels are fucking nuts but you seemed to bridge the gap and try to reach a common ground with them instead of just bringing them down even further while relating your own personal struggles to theirs.   You're a great woman with a great philosophy - keep up the good work!
Does someone know the original video of the roosh person talking about his bread :D?  I kinda really want to watch it now :D
The monologue at the beginning is a hate crime
I'm a straight male. And you. Look beautiful to me. :) and your video has been great. Glad to have found your channel
i would fuck u and i am a guy and not gay
you are a true pimp hon
Excellent. But I’m most intrigued by the Dvorak. Or maybe it was the sea...
I'm a lesbian who's never been in a relationship... and while of course I'm not a misogynist, I can deeply relate to the whole "nobody will ever love me and I might as well kill myself" thing. Getting married and having a family has always been a dream of mine, but now when I think about it, I just cry. It'll never happen. :^(
why do incels try to get with a stacy when them and another incel can both become beckys and then be in a relationship? (/s but younger me would have been pretty vulnerable to this kinda stuff)
i was that guy
"What I'm saying is the manosphere exists because rock n' roll is dead"  OH MY GOD YOU'RE RIGHT
You are a gorgeous goddess
Awesome video @Contrapoints, I just want to say that I wish my latinx male community was more accepting of the trans community and didn't have these incelike concepts of females. Thank you so much for your explanations
You are a truly amazing women
I've seen this video pop up in my recommendations, and now I'm sad it took so long for me to finally click. Great video.
This is the first time I have watched any of your content and my God I love it. Im here to stay
Incels actually believe the black pill from what I heard
I'm so glad I'm not straight. I love being a lesbian goddammn
What's with all the Joshes and Joshuas? Are we Joshuas?
Do an ASMR video where you tap on that skull, please. Your nails give me life
Your skull is completely fine I was confused at first being like are they sound a bit deeper then normal and then I went but mine is too and they look exactly like a girl, but probably thinking it was deep cuz the last vid I watched was an overly peppy girl
Really appreciate the trans dating comment because it’s too real
I actually though you were a biological woman, regardless you’re a beautiful woman.
This is the first video I've ever seen from this channel and I already love you. Such a fantastic personality and sense of humor :3
Man their fucking minds must explode when a dude who is a 3 or 4 lands a girl who is an 8 on a bad day
I came for the aesthetic and topic, was seduced by the sense of humor and stayed for the not-so accidental ASMR.
I think it's ironic that you chose the base progression for incels when it's obvious that they never get to first base.
feeeeeeeemoiiiiidddsss
I think some of these guys/gals, just have really deeply rooted body dysmorphia and just choose psuedo-sciences to excuse themselves. I have really bad BDD, and I can somewhat understand why/how they're choosing to rationalize their bad sex-life. However, it seems more of a kind of "cult" mentality because members of the community present "facts" on how the dating scene works "biologically", while offering no real hard-evidence. It's kind of sad to see people who probably have crippling low self-esteem latch on to weird scientific beliefs. (Unlike myself, who chooses to focus on REAL scientific studies such as facial symmetry, porportions, and social tendencies... still doesn't help me at all but I mean its better than the alternative) This still doesn't excuse them for their weird and self-pitying behaviors. Like, I have a "strong brow-ridge, jawline, conventionally attractive etc..." but my low self-esteem prevents me from really entering a dating scene. I might have missed the point of anything they were saying, but I love your theatrical style of videos (even if we disagree on certain issues). Keep it up!
Hey, actual question, are you a man or a woman?
this is the greatest video ive ever seen in my life, youre the most entertaining person ive ever seen in my life, like i legitimately want to know you in real life ive decided to like, subscribe, turn notifs on and stan from here on in godbless you xx
I used to hang out on r9k, which is also a pretty important base of "incel operations" and it's nice to see such a pertinent vid on the subject. I do however think that their weird worldview of relationships as a really competitive market with monopolies hold on a larger scale than dating apps, but they reach a very wrong and dangerous conclusion  : they think that this state of "hypergamy" is due to the sexual liberation and that it was better in the good old times of traditional family values when in fact it is due to these values and their remnants, which places the whole value of a woman in her suitability as a mate.  On a more personal level, it's always kinda frustrating when the solution proposed to this issue is "stop depressing, go out and just b yourself ;)" because while it is indeed a much better alternative for one's mental health than being in those depressive hellholes, it is not a miracle solution to a lack of romantic experiences, especially when talking to people with deal breaking levels of ugliness, autism or disabilities. I personally ended up giving up on the thing anyway, convinced by the fact that heterosexual relationships are far too often oppressive in nature (I'm not only saying this to save face, I swear).
1 million views! :D
Contrapoints is the most beautiful girl in the world everybody else pack it up and go home
Damn why is it that some trans women are more woman than i could ever hope to be. I wanna be you when I “grow up” ;) Stunning video. Eloquent, brutally honest and impactful.
"Swipped on a trans" . 😭😭😭😭😭😭
Well done. However, this is the result of patriarchy.  WELP.
I'll also remember not to drink anything while watching your stuff.
So glad I found you. You're amazing.
Excelente!
this is kind of a masterpiece...
GIRL, WHERE HAVE YOU BEEN MY WHOLE LIFE?? First time watching your channel and I am so fucking impressed. Binging the channel all day and passing along clips for my wife to show in her Women's Studies and LGBTQ classes.  ❤️🧡💛💚💙💜
You seem like the only youtuber who understands the issue and not just hating on incels for the sake of views and likes And I appreciate the positive feedback, you're doing a great work, keep it up
Great video, and I think it definetly helped some Incels, especially those who have a bit of self-contiunous about their theorems and a shred of self-respect with regards to intellectual honesty and vigor about their theorems. However, to debunk and rectify various theorems (the whole terrible lookism/personality stuff), there needs to be done more, I feel like this video with its length and its main emphasis, barely scratched the surface there.
fuck, you can turn me into a commie just with that music holy shit.
didn't know you were trans untill you said so
"At least this freaks care enough about my pussy to be an asshole about my dick." Dead.
I liked the parts about incels, but stuff about gender transitioning was even more interesting. I've never met a transgender person, so transgender people talking about their experiences on the internet is probably closest I got to understand this group and their struggles. All in all, it's pretty informative.
The irony of incel culture is that they've made entire lexicons, pseudo-scientific theories and the like explaining why they have "the sex they deserve" withheld from them, but for literally anyone who isn't immersed and believing in that culture, the actual reason is so painfully obvious that it boggles the mind that anyone could delude themselves otherwise.  It's like watching a community of people united by their two goals:  1. Finding the psychological, social, and genetic theories behind why people don't like having face to face conversations with them 2. Eating their own feces
I swear, for every fucking BEEEP I hear, I want to slap a Google boss.
Okay, I learned something new today...I call people hon, but just because it's short for when I call them honey or honeybun. I had no idea that it meant something else to an entire community. Also...this video was very informative. I heard 'incel' on a show the other day and even though they sorta described what it meant in the show, I was like...I need to know more about what this term means. I am (I think) a cis pansexual...with a huge head. I've always kinda had a complex about it, but now you've got me looking for my measuring tape. You are gorgeous, and I am so glad I stumbled upon your channel!! <3
I needed this video to get me out of my bitterness. Thank you very much.
this was an extremely uncomfortable minute one
The sea doesn't really do much for me. Consider, however, the subtle potency of chilly winds rustling through leaves in the late afternoon, the soft caress of mildly agitated branches, as massive, dainty clouds slowly unfold amidst greyish skies, and a single bird glides through the aether, hmm. What I'm trying to say is that I'm coming out as aeoliansexual, I guess.
LAMENTATION AND CUCKOLDREHHHHHH
Goddamn. I'm impressed.
Most of this was very informative. I was an incel, black pill stage, about 20 years ago. Today, I have had a good sex life, and I am satisfied. I am 49 and have a cute little girlfriend who is 24. Hang in there. It gets good eventually.
i think your voice is lovely, btw!  i think raspier/smokier voices sound aristocratic 😍😍 like jessica brown findlay
You have a new subscriber. Great video!
My mother is sitting right next to me. OMG this is hilarious. She was like ‘my god excuse me’.  Thanks for that laugh I needed it.
I died when you said “the inherent eroticism of the sea” oh my
are you a trap ?
I gotta say you are awesome! You were hilarious and fun, you also covered the sensitive topic very comprehensively and considerately. (And on a possible sensitive note I gotta say I think it’s difficult to tell you were ever male and that you look fantastic)
this channel is an instant sub.
Lmao people are so fucking petty.
This video is so insightful and clever! I absolutely love your voice it's so soothing! <3
Great video, when did Roosh V take time off from PUA scams to "used to be a scientist"? Like when did this science thing happen? I've been fascinated by the incelsme forum (since taken down) and my take on this group is that there is A LOT of body dysmorphia going on. As was pointed out, most of these men are very normal looking. I had severe BDD as a kid and didn't have sex until 21: thank god a sweet punk girl came along and basically chased me down. But the reality is that most women don't go after men, and if you never approach women or get a few pieces of negative feedback...the BDD will persist and get worse and worse. You have no positive female (sorry...femoid!) validation to counter it.
this is great 😂 but why do you want everyone to get so turned on by water??
Thank you so much for making this video. I needed it right now.
I love this! The production value is incredible. I actually cannot believe it.
I feel like I have symptoms of inceldom. I don't consider myself as mysoginistic. I was raised by a single mother, have only sisters and i love them all dearly. Although I do see myself as an unlovable freak, and have a very self-loathing attitude.
This is so well researched and written. Are you sure you’re from Baltimore?
This is partly the result of feminism  and mostly cultural marxism
Incels bother me so much because it’s an entire group of delusional and insecure people and their little world is basically built on misogyny and delusion. It’s so scary because insecure hateful people like this will never have the motivation to change or see the real world and it can so easily turn into violence. These people are basically the  exact prototype of a school shooter. I honestly don’t see much sexism in the first world or daily life but these people are genuinely the most sexist people I’ve ever seen.
Instant subscribe, I'm already in love with your videos!!
Hands down the best video ive ever watched.  Most educational.
This is the first time I watched this channel, I deadass didnt know she was a trans until she said so
... I get our society has a problem with beauty standards but... Talk about twisting it to just hate on women. Understanding is important however, incels are very hateful however they drag other men (mostly anxious, depressed, or lonely) into their group by posing as helpful support groups. I say this a lot, if you're depressed or anxious, there is proper help and there is this. This (reffering to incels) won't help you and there are resources out there for you and people that will help you. Also I've never even thought about wrists, but all wrists are beautiful :3 Also I'm team radio silence. I'd rather have nothing happen than to be made to feel uncomfortable by someone whose being a bit entitled. But it's subjective so yeah
Yeah, I needed this... And I think Foppington’s Law will gain traction... 💀
Omg I love you. Thank you so much for this vid. You're beautiful btw and I hope your surgery goes well!
Third video of yours I've seen. Subscribed.
Yikes, incels are sad.  Hi, I guess I would also call myself an incel but Jesus this behavior and language they have towards anyone not like them is concerning.
Omg this is wonderful
It’s obviously your body and you can choose to shave off bone however you like. But I think you are a beautiful woman bone structure or not.
Not cool bro. Not cool
Please please audition for drag race
This is one of the rare occasions that YouTube finally recommended something that was truly amazing. This video is incredible, fantastic work.   I also used to frequent some forums, about 10 years ago, that had people developing those kind of sabotaging and self harming life “philosophies”. In my case, they were related to social phobia, which I suffered from back then. At first my intention in joining those groups were to identify myself and maybe find ways to overcome my frustrations. However, the community I used to post slowly began developing those really irrational and extremely hysterical self loathing thoughts, and then it started getting filled with bigotry, so I decided to abandon it, since it was so out of line with the therapy I was doing.  I think those dudes are just mentally troubled people that should seek psychological advice in a honest and committed way, but them joining together in these kind of groups and fueling their self-loathing are leading to some deeply troubling and scary situations. It’s crazy.
Even as a female by nature, I gotta admit, you are soo much more pretty than I am haha. I wish I could be as good looking as you, inside and out
Whaaat! Until you said you were transgendered, I seriously thought you were a very naturally beautiful woman. I never would have thought you were transgendered.....you were meant to be a woman, and I hope you do well on all your endeavors. I can tell you have an amazing personality. I wish there were more people like you in the world. There are a lot of good people, but most people aren't as succinct and honest; its refreshing to see
Chadsplaining!
I never knew "hon" was an insult.  I should start calling people "bitch".
I thought the incel pill was the black pill.
Oh my God, Fucking MENDELSSOHN!!! I'M DYING!!!🤣🤣🤣🤣🤣
I think you've got a little bit of an unfair view of men's rights activists and things of the like. I definitely wouldn't count myself among them, but i've heard some fair points come out of that. I wish you wouldn't use superlatives about it so much, because outside of that this is honestly great content.
Tbh i was a hard sjw then my ex forced me to be v right leaning and fed me lies and now im trying to get back to how i was.. these videos always help
As a first time viewer, this is cool. I never would have any insight into this stuff as a typical average straight guy. I mean super average. I feel like one of the most average dudes out there, and I don't mean that in a good or a bad way. As a very average guy with very average opinions, I will tell you I don't believe anyone can change their gender. They can try but the biology behind it and medical science that goes into it are just very real walls. Maybe someday that will change and medical technology will make it possible but today I think any genitals are better than transformed ones, if only because the things they have to do to actually try to make artificial sex organs is far from ideal. Many people are left without the ability to orgasm at all after a sex change surgery. That said, I think that's different than gender identity and if people want to dress more womanly and basically live a different lifestyle than what their gender typically does, by all means go for it. With how open minded a lot of people are today and how gender fluid a lot of people feel, weather your a dude that comes off as girly or a girl that has a dick, there's people that are into that and can appreciate something in the middle ground more than either. I'm not one of em but basically, keep the dick. The results of doing the operation are worse.
I started this video watching in my car. There was an audio delay...while i did not think you were a man with the voice delay from screen to speakers i really thought you were doing a voice over of cgi woman.  So i guess in a roundabout way....you really dont look like a man, until you mentioned it and planted it in my brain...after that sure i noticed how without your on point make up you  would have a mans appearance.  Still thought you were a cgi voice over...technology has gotten creepy good.
hahaha my god wat toxic launguage hahaha
I can’t tell if the host is a woman or trans . The voice is kinda iffy and the face is just too big and masculine .
Please postpone bone modification for more basic mods!  I thought I needed bone mods, and I did my boobs, and you know what? I'm pretty good.  I have spent my whole life with these bones and i am cool with them.  Just make a list, prioritize.  Money and time is limited.  Keep being awesome!
Are you sure you quit academia?? This needs to have it's own citation written in bio pls
I found a true witty enchanting treasure today! How have I not found  you before???!!! Entirely bingeworthy!
I was born with a vagina, and my head is HUGE. Just saying. 😂😂
Excuse me while I go watch all of your videos.
First time viewer and I gotta say that whole part about TTTT and self hatred felt like it was aimed at me
Is she trans?
I don't know If that helps but I only knew you were a trans woman when you said so in another video. You're gorgeous. Keep up the great work!
Corn dog, anyone?
You don't need to adjust your bone structure you already look convincing don't be a daft bastard :P x
"Femoid" is such a horrible term. They make it sound like women are some kind of alien robots.
Kinda sounds like Mickey Mouse
My mom has a huge head. The woman who squeezed me out of her vagina has a bigger head than my dad.  Sorry if I ruined the self pity.
First time watcher and was genuinely suprised you aren't a woman. Good work👌
HOW WAS THIS RECOMMENDED TO ME
I am only 12 minutes in, and just met Roosh for the first time. Wow wow wow. What a guy.  Thank you so much for producing this, I cannot wait to explore your channel further when I get back from work. I want to echo so many of the positive comments below, keep it up!
you need to emphatize with them and not sympathize, when are people going to learn this?
normies are their own race now?
do you want to understand them so you can make more fun of them?  Im sorry, I am just having issues taking you seriously.
You are a brave woman for trying to look into the mind of these.... incel.... type.... people....  Like holy shit.
I never understood the wrist thing. I have tiny wrists (and ankles) also and my advice for men that feel self conscious about this is lift heavy weights. Even if you have just a little muscle mass you the contrast between you wrists and your biceps or your qauds and your ankles makes you look big.
can u do a video about egirls ?
Roastie is by FAR THE MOST ABSURD THING I'LL EVER HEARD.
Aren't you that girl from suicide squad?
They think this way and then wonder why women don’t want to fuck them...LOL someone please explain to them that it’s their sexism, not their looks or race or height. Also, most women I have seen date men way below their monetary level and also their appearance level. All my exes have been broke and unattractive but I thought I liked their personality. Almost every couple I see I’m always like “wow why is she with HIM” so yeah, that’s totally inaccurate.
it seems to me that IQ is inversely proportional with female popularity  low IQ is associated with savage, violent behaviour, and a small cranium  high IQ behaviour is associated with nerdiness and a large cranium  also consider this. it is a known fact that IQ and fertility are inversely proportional (lower IQ people reproduce faster then higher IQ people)  taking this into consideration. it seems to me that savage lower IQ "bad boys" are getting more pussy then high IQ incel nerds  ...this will inevitably lead to IQ dysgenics because women are refusing to reproduce with low IQ jocks instead of high IQ nerds...
I would fuck all these idiots if it ended this bullshit movement lol
"At least these pricks care enough about my pussy to be an asshole about my dick!" Fabulous.
10/10
This is amazing. Thank you!
OMG, I completely lost my shit at the ASMR bit.
This was the first video I ever saw from you. I had no clue and would have had no clue you were trans until you specifically said so. :) As far as "why do people cut"... Back when I was in a really bad head space I cut myself or bit my hand in order to feel physical pain either to justify the mental pain or distract myself from it.  I had to laugh a bit about the post mentioning women whining about their periods. My boyfriend freaked out when he saw period blood and asked how I'm not dead. So seriously, go see what a period is like before you complain about women complaining about the pain and literal bloody mess.
didn’t even suspect you once identified as a man until you stated it, and  on another note, you truly do look beautiful.
Imagining future high level AI sex robots that go around sucking dicks to keep all the lonely men from revolting. We'll get into designer babies and it'll get easier to define genetic superiority and inferiority so until those decisions filter through the group genome there will still be inferior people. So, tentacle sex robots, gotta keep those loads flying so we don't collapse under the weight of our own emotions. We'll wear emotion monitors so the robot will seek out those on the verge of being too horny. Just imagining sitting on the bus and it briefly stops and a tentacle flies into the window and up the pants of the guy sitting next to you, a brief whir, a shudder, and off goes the tentacle. People hardly notice, dick sucking tentacle robots are normal, integral to the calm society we've built. The dick sucking end of the tentacle will be on the flag, the true foundation for all we built :)
Something about incels that I’ve noticed is this sense of arrogance and stubborn pride. Like the reject any form of help and dismiss it as if they know better, without realizing that if they knew better, they wouldn’t be in this situation. But something about them, their pride or arrogance keeps them from at least keeping and open mind about somebody else’s advice
your quickly becoming one of my favorite youtubers, each video is better than the last. never stop never stopping
wow. a whole lot of damage out there in the world.
Thank you for this video, I really wanted to understand more about incels. I just discovered the term a week or so ago and have just been hearing all the bad comments they make about women. They simultaneously make me mad, sad and scared honestly. I wanted to at least understand a little, because after all I am a woman and have always been so I don't have the opportunity of experiencing it first hand. You are a beautiful person, and keep doing what you are doing. Thanks again.
I've never been so turned on by a rainstorm before
# no tall dicks
S  K  U  L  L  S
Incels are not misogynists. I wish they were. I could use them to push men's rights forward if they were.  Unfortunately they're just female worshippers that feel discarded and they have the unmanly habit of complaining about their lot.
Idk what to say, but im sorry things turned out this way for you.
Very thoughtful and provocative. I enjoyed your video a great deal. Good work!
Congrats on this video passing 1 million views, Natalie!
My god this video almost verges on life changing. Just for the simple fact that im an incel in the technical sense but never have i attributed to women. But the place where all this comes from is self hatred.   Also the comparison between tttt and incels was a plot twist worthy of early shyamalan and Nolan.
why I now wanna go on reddit a search for cute incel boys? ...
This is propably the best video on the topic I have seen! Also great content in and of itself.     subbed.
I mean  Roosh be getting this bread
Just a reminder; you are not unfuckable for having a mental illness, you are as beautiful and amazing as anyone else and you matter. There is someone for you and just because you haven't met someone doesn't mean they aren't out there.
you're level of art is a little advanced for me, which is great for my personal development
Why are you making me so sexually interested in the ocean. That crisp cool kiss of the waves on my skin. The delicious undulation that weightlessly buoys me among the calming sound of waves crashing against the shore. The salty taste of the sea on my lips. The soft abrasion of sand on my legs...     I'm in a landlocked state! You can't do this to me! I miss the ocean so fucking much   Maybe that's just the asexual part of me that finds oceans and thunderstorms more sexually appealing than people.
Fuck my head size is 58cm and I'm a female, this is 100% bullshit. Fuck those twats on 4-chan
This video is absolutely fucking perfect! God damn it. Keep up the good work Contrapoints, you're amazing <3
You look like a girl I know!
I was avoiding this video because of the channel title being ContraPoints, and as such I was expecting this to be an incel sympathy video, which I have zero interest in. But this was absolutely fantastic so I'm glad YouTube's recommendation algorithm kept shoving this down my throat
this video has been on my recommended for weeks and I can't believe I'm just watching it now, I think I fell a little bit in love with you lol
where can i find the Roosh V clip of him saying, 'i am ultra masculine' i need to save it for posterity
you should write nature porn
I used to go on 4chan back in the day to talk about wrestling & find ridiculous nihilistic memes, but bruh. I can't get on there since it has evolved into this weird self-loathing parasitic paradise. I cannot imagine being this controlled by insecurity & conspiracies.
thank you contrapoints. youve helped me
Calling women unoptanium made me laugh way harder then it should have.
I came here looking for info about incels, i ended up falling in love with this georgeus girl 😍 like daaaaaaaaamn, who gives a shit about incels now?
I have to say... I never thought of a rainstorm in quite that fashion.   that's.  hot.  thanks and I never heard of black pills.  Red pills I have heard a lot of, especially the Red PIll Religion set.  but Black Pills?  that sounds almost like my view minus the women hatred and blaming it on them.
I love you and everything about this video. I wish that we could go out for a drink!
That opening made me very uncomfortable
Trap?
The Red Pill is an reasonably accurate reading of Toxic Femininity or what Feminism left out.
I think one thing applies to a LOT of people, especially when they have mental issues.  Humans tend to believe insults more then compliments in general, and insults and bad moods tend to stick longer to humans then any compliment could.
you're a man not a woman.
Thank God for Olly
I just suddenly realized this is all Mark Zuckerbergs fault. No space program just human metrics.  Database love.
beautiful, you're a gorgeous creature singing truth and hope - thank you for being awesome <3 *cheers!*
Assigned female at birth and this bitch has a 60 inch head. Yes. A huge fucking head
“An eminently bangable twink” I FUCKING LOVE YOU 😭
I'm so fucking glad I'm a lesbian
Does anyone else think they could end the incel forums by hosting a giant orgy for all of them to participate in?
You look great just the way are.
This is incredibly well made. I'm glad I stumbled upon this video. Subscribing 🤙
Do the trans lesbians hate you now for liking guys and doing things with them? It does seem to be a big problem from the trans community. Who thinks being trans means being gay. And if you heterosexualize being transgender, than your not "REALLY" trans to them. And then they want you out of their community. The trans support tends to go south if your not a trans lesbian, or a gay trans man, or gay while being non-binary. If your straight or bi in any of these things.
had only seen videos from hbomb and shaun and was mindblowen over the ammount high-quality leftist content on youtube, and than i stumbled upon this gem. I really love the way you make videos.
you finally broke 1 million views!!!!!!
Damn her makeup is on fleek this video  (Also good content hahah I had no idea this even existed)
Did you just put all men's rights activist into something called "manosphere"? Father's rights are an issue in many countries, being active in that topic would make someone a "men's rights activist", wouldn't it? I'm not a pro with all these internet groups and their names - so correct  me if I'm wrong :-)
List of things I heard unnecessarily gendered today by Roosh V JUST IN THIS VIDEO: baking, cooking, science, crippling insecurity.  In all seriousness though, this is the first video of yours I've seen (it showed up in my Recommended while watching a bunch of other video essays) and I love how you mixed scientific research and psychological terminology with your personal experiences and witty humor. I think this is how incels need to be approached--not from the standpoint of trying to convert or condescend to them, because that'll just make most of them dig their heels in more, but of trying to separate them from that harmful dynamic and help them, to the degree that any are willing to be helped.  Also, I did notice the Problematic Thing, but every time another YouTuber mentions anything related to Maryland, all i can think is "YO, THERE ARE YOUTUBERS IN MY STATE!" I love it! I'm thinking about starting a show with a friend of mine, and if it ever gets off the ground, I'd love to collaborate with all these Maryland-YouTubers I keep seeing! That'd be great fun, I'd think. Nobody has to travel far and we can have some interesting discussions.
Delightfully entertaining, and no less profound for it.
Okay but how is she so right about the eroticism of nature. I’m gonna go listen to a compilation of waves crashing... for... reasons.
I can't believe what poor women have to deal with . Fellas ruining their own  lives , hating and dehumanizing women ( always an in vogue thing ) , all cause they can't get laid ? You don't see women shooting people up cause they can't get any . Women don't owe you sex or even attention creeps .  I don't even feel sorry for them . They are too pathetic and vicious for me to really feel for them .  I think they should stay the fuck away from women though.  They seem unhinged and can be dangerous. It is either idiots wallowing in self pity or other idiots who come across as try hard with their ultra complex strategies to get laid ( needless to say ... that is creepy as well )  all provided by a bread scientist ahhahahah.  They all need professional help tbh  but women should stay the fuck away .  It would be like a member of the LGBTQ community  wanting to give comfort or " reform"  a vicious homophobe ( who if suddenly possible  would strip away their rights and harm them in all possible ways in a heartbeat because that was definitely the vibe those very vague women hate posts in this vid gave me ) .  If suddenly these creeps had the power to decide for women or over women , I suspect really nasty and perverse shit would go down.   Thank God that is only a very popular AU in those websites I suspect. Get well soon you miserable mofos or die trying
New subscriber. I am really loving your conent, great job!
This is the 1st video of yours I've seen. Your Elegance and personality caught my eye. And then when you said you were trans!!! I was like YESSSS new role model! (I'm a trans guy)
I AM so happy that I found your Chanel! I love your aesthethic
If you have to say you are ultra masculine you aren’t masculine you have very fragile masculinity
20:51 Ι PAUSED AND LOOK AT THE CEILING OMG I LOVE YOU AHAHAHAHAHAHHA
So this HONs solution at the end is to become a eco-sexual. Wow so NPC of you.     lol i got the message but that eco-sexual bullshit was bullshit
Amazing, well done video! Immediate new sub! I heart you!!
this channel is wonderful
That Becky cartoon bears a striking resemblance to my Bitmoji and I am feeling personally attacked.
Problem is not in sex and girlfriend,problem is in society and how society treat virgin people.I personally don't care about sex and girlfriend but any time when I say  that I've never been to relationship,other people think that i am a freak.
"The manosphere exists because rock n roll is dead" truer words never spoken
the first thing I thought about the guy in the car was ''bangable twink'' heck I am lucky to be gay as a shorty, at least gotta big dick tho!
6:48 all i could think of was that panel from Preacher where the guy's yelling at a neonazi: *"WHERE THE FUCK IS YOUR CHIN?"*
You are a gorgeous goddess everyday! You really are; didn’t know you were trans until you said it and was and am admiring your beauty
Idk if youd even believe this but holy shit you look stunning ♡
A new language has developed; it is beyond my comprehension , but the music was nice.
*Bread scientist*
Over 1 million views!!  Congratulations my Queen! ❤
Is Chad actually Donald Trump?
Porn is all an insane conspiracy, a virgin femoid is just as likely to have a tight pussy as a pornstar, it's all just an insane conspiracy by the insane, evil incels... lol, I guess putting scientific facts in quotation marks somehow makes cucks and deluded femoids right
Haha.... I'm not sure what to make of all this.  I mean these guys involved with these silly little "movements" sound pretentious at best and vulgar at worst but I still obsessively focus on obtaining regular sex from my wife to a generally frustrating result.  Just a dumb animal I guess.  LOL. It's really refreshing to read all these comments and see these points of view.  I love my wife and really try not to come on to strong..... my toxic masculinity is telling me that I need to clarify that by saying it's out of respect to her and not fear of rejection. LOL
lolol this was so funny. i had to sub.
Thank you so so much for this video!  I know that trying to trace the beliefs of truly toxic groups like the incel community can be like, well, digging through toxic sludge, but you've really helped put words and definition to the generally sickened and uncomfortable feeling I get when I think about incels, and I'm really grateful for that.  Anyway, this is my first time on the channel and you definitely gained a subscriber :)  Imma go binge-watch more of your videos now...
I had sex and it didn't make me feel any better I wanted more of a connection I found someone who I eventually fell for and I had friendzoned them. Afraid I would screw up our friendship it still hurts and due to some troubled girlfriends who I hope get help I haven't tried to date lately too shy. Worried about being hurt again. I try to fix my issues and try putting myself out there no luck though.  I am glad I am not in a situation like I was in school I am a tall guy built like a line backer I am not frequently getting laid I miss my friend Chris if I could go back I would unfriendzone her and see where that relationship would have gone I bet it would be awesome if by chance you are reading this I hope you are having a radical life Chris. :D
Incels are like a strange species of people I am completely confused by
And then there are femcels, actually depressed women who I feel like they just need to go out more
Its kinda loke the thinspo community for anorexia
Honestly, I feel like some people should stop interneting.
But I do get Radio silence most of the times when I like someone on a dating app... like 8/10 would silence again
Girl... some of those likes are for Sure the company... I have OKC and when Ever I'm in app I'm liked and like the day after.
This makes me feel Way less ready to date. 😂 I want to date and one day marry a fellow nerd, but I want one secure in his manhood and not racist (I'm Black) or xenophobic.
Just bake a Fucking bread and shut up. This man Nuts.
First video of yours I have seen. Really impressive presentation and insightful about a corner of the internet I didn't know much about.
Oh My God. What. What is all this. People think like this?! Dear Christ. God Save my vagina from Any of these motherfuckers.
Good job, Hon!  Hahahaha... just kidding.
ONE MILLION
Congrats on 1,000,000 Views! Loving this channel so much
ayyy congrats on the 1mil!!
Came here to try to find real understanding after a shooting in my community. Thank you.
1M people have heard olly's erotic narration,,, wow
This was my first time watching a video of yours and you've definitely earned my subscription! I'll have to watch through your other videos at a later date. I kinda flirted with being an incel at various points in the last few years, but it never really stuck. It didn't hurt that I'm an introvert with crippling social anxiety, I'm legitimately not an alpha male by any stretch of the imagination (very nerdy & also feminine enough I don't consider myself a guy at this point), and I went to a conservative school which pushed a narrative of male oppression at times. So yeah, I felt this one real well even though I can't say I was ever as misogynistic or involved as a lot of people in the video. Oh and I was trying out dating apps (and still do at times) and it can be pretty foreboding as a guy on there. Also I've been a viewer of Olly's for years, so it was cool to hear his voice in this vid! (Also I'm sure that you won't read this, but you look pretty feminine and I think your transition has gone by pretty well.)
I didn’t realise you were trans until you mentioned it ❤️
how is your hair so good?
As compellingly explained in this video, I find this whole incel thing horridly sad, that there are people out there who view life and humanity in these grotesque ways.
"The skull is inanimate, and unchangeable" Idk sis, if you punch a person hard enough in the face, you'll definitely get a different shaped head. Just think about Squidward in that one episode where he became beautiful.
Yer smart huh huh <~~~incel
Wait you're in baltimore? shit gotta go on tinder see if i can match with ya bby
I've always kind of felt sorry for incels, the not insane ones anyways. I'm a girl and a virgin too, and yeah it sucks to feel like shit about your appearance, but that's no reason to hate yourself and the world. Sex probably isn't all that great anyways, I think not having it just makes them obsessed with it. Just work hard, hire a prostitute, get it out of your system and like...I don't know get a hobby or something. Pick up Buddhism???? Like having sex isn't magically going to fix whatever is broken on the inside, so why obsess over it? Just like getting plastic surgery isn't going to fix what's broken in the first place either. Plus, I mean, maybe if you're weren't crazy assholes who smell like old doritos I'd even date you...even tho I'm totes a becky...
Damn I could go for some of that Chang Wang right about now if you know what i mean
It does not end, I must leave.
They're seriously using eugenics as an excuse for not having sex 💀
Women feel much worse after they interact with incels
Congrats on 1 million views!! LeftTube is unstoppable ✊🏾✊🏽✊🏻✊🏿✊🏼✊
So proud my queen got to a million views!!!
if they put as much effort into being a person a woman might want, as they put into blaming others, belittling women, and inventing neeto pet names for people, they might not be alone. to be loved, you must first be someone who is lovable. i'm not a "chad", i am not wealthy, nor do i resemble mr. ed in any way, but have never had a problem finding a partner. stop being a dick, remember women are people, deserving of the same respect as you want for yourself, and stop thinking you are entitled to, or owed anything.
o n e   m i l l i o n   v i e w s
ANAL
So this is my first time watching a video of yours and I have to say that I’m extremely impressed by the quality, humor and overall experience of this video. I also had thoughts throughout the first half of this video that the incel community wouldn’t listen to someone who they thought of as a Stacy. And at the risk of sounding insensitive (if I am it’s unintentional and I’m purely trying to compliment) I honestly thought that you were born a woman. I really enjoyed listening to your voice and thought you were extremely beautiful and intelligent. I very much enjoyed your video. I also would like to share a personal tidbit as someone who was born a woman and attractive (if I do say so myself) that I have to use an xl men’s motorcycle helmet because my head is too big to fit in women’s. So does my aunt with her xxl men’s helmet. Point is, I loved your video, and I always feel for people in these toxic internet forums because of the seemingly inability to escape. You had a unique perspective and I loved the video.
Off topic, but I laughed SO HARD at your representation of a TERF
1 Million views 🎉🎉🎉
I needed to watch this video. I have read a lot about red pill philosophy in the past, in my opinion a lot of it makes sense. The red pill is about understanding traditional masculinity and self-improvement, it can however be used to hate women. I recently looked into black pill philosophy and fell inside a hole. The best way to describe it is the red pill teaches you how to get with women and black pill is about understanding that it doesn't matter how many sexual partners you have, you'll never be happy or satisfied.  I wouldn't class myself as incel but I can relate to their frustration. In my opinion, self improvement is the answer to most of what incels complain about. This video is on point with everything, it felt like she was describing the last few years of my life. It's just what I needed to get me out of the hole I found myself in. Thanks.
I just learned sooooooo much :) candy for the mind
I guess no one will read this considering the video is already rather old but I have a problem. I think you cannot call me an incel but I'm in general very introverted and extremely shy especially when it comes to contact with women. I know a shit tons of methods how to overcome shyness and that shit but it simply doesn't work and I'm not here to seek for tips on how to overcome shyness, I'm here to ask if anyone knows a good method how to deal with shyness. Like how do I not blame myself every day for being a fucking dumbass? I won't blame others because it's absolutely my own fault, but I need a method to deal with that.   I'm not sure if anyone here understands me and what I'm trying to say but I'd be very thankful to anyone helping or even trying to help me
Your opinion doesnt matter youre transgender
You’re awesome :) Thanks for the fun explanation. I’m devastated by recent news and wanted to do a little research. Extremely helpful
Holy shit, this was a masterpiece. The editing, the format, your arguments and obviously well done research. Mad respect!! Love it
Is there such a thing as a BrainChad? I'm pretty sure I'm one of those, it's how we attract a lot of women. We have the looks, charm, and brains to pull it off. The traits humans look for naturally so our offspring is better than the parents.
The collective conscious of society has autism
You can do anything you want to, don't give a fuck what people think of it.
Every single second of this video felt clever.
Femiods? that sounds like something out a bad sci fi.
Imagine your masculinity being so fragile that baking somehow makes you feel less of a man
One Million views BOIS AND GURLS!
OMFG my girl has done it!!!!! Congrats on 1mil views, Natalie!!!! Love u <33
I dislike the salt of sea air but girl you got me hot for that rainstorm lol.
I LOVED that your closing message/advice was “take to the sea”.
Well done
The problematic thing about what you said at 18:45 is that you didn't pronounce Baltimore "Balmer".
the first Contrapoints video at 1 million views, may it be the first of many
jesus that opening is uuuuncomfy.
Omg I want you as my best friend!!!!!! You so coooool!!!
Love this! Incredibly well researched and well written. If you care, I'm a cis male who finds you gorgeous.
This video has been on my feed forever and now I finally watched it. My first video of you, and I was a bit shocked when you said you were trans lol good job you’re beautiful
Excellent taste in music. Mendelssohn is a great composer
ONE MILLION   KAH-WEEN!
1 MIL hype. Btw I feel like an incel 'cause of me having autism. I just wanna be myself but don't see anyone willing to ever be in love with me. Just my sad mental state.
This a dude??
Congratulations on getting 1 million views Nat!!! ♥
1 million views, congrats!
If you believe that you look like a hon, you don’t. You have a very feminine face.
god youre so iconic 💗
u dont like strats????
wtf.... disgusting
Are you serisouly in your 40s?
19:17 Artificial wombs will soon become a thing.
She's trans?
clever, funny, gorgeous, deep thinking.. what are you doing this Friday?
M A S C U L I N E B A K E R
ContraPoints is my  favorite youtube channel.  Never stop Natalie!
You're a gorgeous dream with humor. Loving your content so far, keep it up hon.
I'm also a first time viewer - subscribed, btw. I like your style, lady-o. Very objective and logical and heartfelt. I'll watch more of your vids, to be sure :)
I really wondered if this was a woman or not, but the wigs... yeah, it makes sense. By the way, Incels need help. Perhaps even "involuntary" help, if they believe what they claim to believe. But by who? Not the internet, that much is self-evident.
Thanks for such an insightful and witty vid, it was excellent.
It's kind of funny that they are incels and yet they hate women so much - pick a side guys! geez....
This was great - loved it!
What's a incel ?
Feeeeeemois lol.    I think one thing that also contributes to this is an unrealistic image of female beauty.  These guys also seem entitled, like they somehow believe they all deserve tens.
These guys can't be serious. Currycels? cmonBruh
Almost to 1 million!
I recently have been dealing with the concept (unknowingly) of digital self-harm. I'd catch myself looking at past things that rekindled mass insecurities about being left behind, being unlovable, and even being only worthy of an unfaithful partner. I really have no idea why I kept doing it, but yea there is an acute combination of a sting/rush that led me to believe those sort of things were true. It's addictive and it was hard pop the isolated bubble I was in. There's no comparison to your story and the bravery you wear everyday (and others coming into their own with bravery and love), but I can't help but find a huge relief in a video that I was watching just for kicks.
ty for everything u do!!!
I'm subscribed to philosophy tube so it was only a matter of time until I watched this. In the end I saw the video's point and i gotta say nicely said and it's a good message. Neglect needs to be treated with therapy.
Had no idea she was once male until "I used to be a man who looked for women on tindr".  I still don't see it, but it does make her points much more interesting.
L e T s get  d o wn to bui s s ness to defeat the *HONS*
/lgbt/ is a fucking shitshow. it seems like if someone there isnt trans, theyre transphobic. but its also interesting to see the diversity of all the people there.
You scare me a lot   But in a good way
You pass so well I thought you already had fss. Gorgeous
Attention incels/red-pillers/niceguys/mgtows/etc: Feminism was never a free pass for women to be spoiled, shallow opportunists.  Whatever awful behaviors you attribute to women (particularly young women), don't blame feminism for this.  Feminism tried to encourage women to liberate themselves from definitions of womanhood that primarily served men.  Women started to prioritize education and careers so they wouldn't need to depend on men to support them.  Equality meant responsibility, which is the price of freedom.  Whenever you see toxic entitled feminine behavior, it's generally due to how they were raised and what was expected of them (i.e.they were spoiled "daddy's girls" who were praised and rewarded just for being pretty).  Female privilege is a form of power women have had since the dawn of humanity.  Feminism isn't the same thing as female privilege.  In fact strict feminists symbolically reject female privilege (see bra-burning) to prove they don't need to rely on men for anything.
I dated a guy that had insecurities about his wrist. Literally. One of the worst people I have ever dated too. He was incredibly misogynistic.
If you got shafted genetically in the looks department, just get filthy rich, as money to women is even more attractive than looking like chad.   Just know that a women will never love you for who you actually are on the inside though (she only 'loves' you for what you can provide her) and when you realise this you will likely take the road of the enlightened wise man, that road is known as MGTOW.
Youre a dick for that end comment and i love you for it 😂
i could've gone my whole life without diving further into this topic for my knowledge, but it's kinda interesting and you're entertaining so. here i am. lmao.
Lost my shit as 17:50 Awesome video x
That comment a little past 32 minutes sounds like Randy Stair is reading it. Ember’s Ghost Squad ftw.
This is fucking brilliant
Thank you  Your curiosity, your desire to understand, your anger at the wrong, your compassion, your intelligence ... wow. When you mentioned the link to get off the bad websites I started to cry.  Wow. You are beautiful hon.
holy shit this is the first time ive seen your videos and this is one of the best things on the youtube. Super smart, funny, stylish... I love your work :)
Woah, the intro made me feel terror. If males are actually thinking about what a female body feels like for them, rather than what it 'feels', then wtf must they think of us. And what could they do to us. This scared me a lot because males control the world and if they think of me as a thing for them to use like I am not a living creature then wtf I can't leave my house now.
@google.com
Incels make me so sad because I can identify with their hopelessness. They've allowed themselves to be swept up by their rage and are being used for political purposes by people who will dump them in the gutter at the first opportunity. They just wanted love but now they may be too far gone for that to ever rescue them.
tbh as an autistic person, it made me really happy that you distinguished mental illnesses from autism. it's such a small thing, but it still made my day a little bit better :) (edit: holy shmokes 1000 likes)
As any man whose struggled in the realm of dating and relationships, it's easy to sympathize with the majority of these men.  However, at a certain point in life you have to look in the mirror and realize that you're the source of your unhappiness.  Yea, sometimes romantic life sucks for average guys, but get a hobby and a therapist and just deal with it.  It also take the realization that stewing in a pot of self-loathing is a never ending downward spiral.
I've watched this video about 10 times and still haven't figured out the problematic thing.
Thank you. That cleared up & answered a lot. For me it was a "plot twist" hf way through 😊 I'm subbing to go on an adventure. Thanks again!
... All I got from this is that the term “Hon” apparently is a slur and that’s a shock to me because I say the word a lot in casual conversations ._.  I just really like saying it but i guess i should start looking for another word to say
4:40 WTF? Like what do they have against "the Becky"
"At least these pricks care enough about my pussy to be an asshole about my dick." I hope you're proud of that line because it made me laugh like an idiot.
Moral of this : go swim life is better in the water
Can I have your number
I came from my roommate's recommendation. He absolutely loves your channel and said it was 'right up my alley' (he's not wrong). Keep doing what you're doing!
"The inherent eroticism of the sea" .... I laughed way too hard for way too long at it xD good one!
What an I say, this was a lovely take on one of the most puzzling group of people. I think that many do not realize that a man's (and a woman's) atractiveness does not relay only on their genetics, but it is a conjunction of traits, not all based on your appearance, that make someone atractive. Thanks again for your video
I just discovered ContraPoints today. My life is complete. Subscribed. 🖤
I would suggest these guys to check the life of Michel Petrucciani... And stop complaining...
Thank you, Skull-People! But i do prefer our dark mother, the sea
*B R E A D   S C I E N T I S T*
7:56 I think a "yikes" was also a valid response
have any of you guys read elliot rodger's manifesto where he wrote down about his life leading up to the event?
CHADPREET
I think people need to realize that having a relationship is not going to fix things. You don't need someone to complete you, you need to find validation and acceptance in yourself. Women have learned this, but these incels haven't. I hope they find happiness soon.
What are you? Woman or trans?
Back in my day we called it "not getting laid"
hm, i don;t think FTMs are too concerned about skulls much because our facials structures can be drastically changed by testosterone, but   HIP LOATHING is definitely a thing lmao. i think my 2 things i hate the most are my hips and my height because thsoe are the two things that can't be changed by surgery. like i can striaght up get a dick tacked onto me but i can't make my hips narrower and i can't grow any taller. i'm so jealous of anybody who is taller than 5'7" because god damn it i'll never be taken seriously as a man at my height.    hmmm, i guess incels and ftms do have a lot in common, we both hate our bodies because they look too feminine LOL
What am I if I get laid, but still hate myself?
this helps me. been trying to get a better mental space last couple of years. this helps thank you!
I'm still not sure what a tran is (hope that's okay), sounds like "Individualism", be true to yourself. People should first strive to set themselves right not others, free their minds of the incessant State indoctrination they have been exposed to and in the process develop into strong and effectual beings. Ralph Waldo Emerson wrote “The antidote to this abuse of formal government, is, the private character, the growth of the individual”
Literally anyone who puts their picture on the internet will get negative comments. Which is why my pic is a giant robot.
"And i know that simpathy for the devil is bad praxis, but sometimes i can't help myself." Thats gotta be the most atractive quote i ever heard on YouTube. I now have a crush on you.
You are missed! 🙂
CURRYCELS LOOOL
really an amazing video! thank you!
Just found your channel, love love love you videos!
Honestly I don't think I will have a girlfriend for a while. I won't blame this on others though. I feel like a wild animal in captivity, and in everything I do, I have to consciously try to fit in. I don't think I could ever love someone outside my family, just because there is no way I could show my real self to anyone else. I've been on many dates where I just keep up boring smalltalk for a while, and nothing else really happens. Maybe I would open up if I got to know someone for many years, but I have always moved every few years. How do people open up to each other in such little time? How can I instantly trust someone like that?
Why cant they just go to a prostitute? Sure they wont get the emotional intimacy, but they will get the physical one and no longer be celibate. So problem solved?
Why do they hold sex so highly? There are other things you can focus all your energy on.
A mgtow isn't a voluntary celebate. Most date and have sex. The basic idea is not to drop all your priorities just to keep having sex with that same person.  With that said there isn't a specific 'way' to be mgtow, to each his own way.
9:13 Oh God that's hilarious. Expertly crafted and superbly drawn shade.  _walks away singin_  It must have been cold there in that shadow...
So, I was getting this recommended a lot.  It was constantly on my sidebar.  For around a month now.  But my brain went "Incels"? hmmmm, nah I don't want to deal with that right now.   Instead, I settled down to watch something by one of my favorite Youtubers, Lindsay Ellis.  And she mentioned something about ContraPoints.  Huh, that sounded familiar.    Boom, there it is.  On the sidebar.  Softly calling to me to just click, just watch, you want to watch this video. Don't you?  And finally in that moment, yes.  I did want to watch the video and it was  A M A Z I N G
I used to browse 4chan and this video hits home for me hard. I always maintained my leftism, feminism, etc but their jargon and self hatred started to tint my worldview. Thank you for the immense vulnerability presented here. We might all be better off if we understood bigots like you do, but maintaining the strength to sympathize with those who hate you and continue living confidently is not realistic for most people. Very impressed
In response to blocking websites, I highly recommend getting cold turkey: https://getcoldturkey.com/
I thought you were an idiot on your debate with Blaire. So glad this came into my feed, because I definitely judged you way too quickly. I don't have to agree with everything you say to be a fan. This is the  most aesthetic video I've seen on Youtube!
I've watched this way too many times. This is amazing. You have beautiful hands by the way. Sorry if that's creepy, but its true. You're very pretty!
"at least these assholes care enough about my pussy to be an asshole about my dick" A++++
Lost it at "Chads with fuckable skulls" XD
"Why do they do it?" Because what you are calling confirmation bias was actually rejection from the opposite sex... BEFORE they grabbed a hold of that label. Hmm?
holy shit youre the classiest wittiest youtuber ive stumbled uppon lately
I am a cis female who identifies as androgynous and I think you're fucking gorgeous. Great video, you've definitely earned a sub ALSO it was thunderstorming during this video, and that just made everything better
I am not trans had no idea you were, but I was obsessing over your beautiful strong-but-feminine facial features and your amazing Lauren Becall voice.  I was even admiringly jealous of your elegant facial features and style.  Just thought you should know!! <3
Never thought watching an incel video would be so enlightening on the trans community 😊
I realised from this video that except for a few things (the chad/incel skull bullshit for example, and the "happiness is not obtainable if you can't fuck or dating a girl"), i identify as being one of them, but it's very understandable when pretty much everyone around you always rejected you and that despite your best efforts to change your attitude, read and watch ton of stuff on the internet and trying to listen to people who give you advice or not, you never had any success with anyone. There's also a lot of truth in the fact dumb feminists exists and now a fuckton of girls act like princess and the good ones are taken so fast you don't stand much of a chance in the crowd of concurrence there already is out there.
Amazing as per usual
You have beautiful hands
THIS IS SO GOOD I CAN'T BELIEVE THIS AAAAAAA
never laughed so hard at such a depressing subject. A+
does anyone know the song that plays at 4th base? I couldn't find it in the description
@ContraPoints, I wonder, how many psychopaths are on these "incels" fora, just having the time of their lives pouring selfhate and hate into young men seeking help. Psychopaths enjoying the distress of those young men.  What if instead of getting help these young men are being pushed and manipulated  to suicide or murderous acts by deranged individuals (men and women) on those fora. Wouldn't it be a good idea if a "mob" of good intentioned people would go on these fora and help the young men ? To counter the destructive manipulation of ill intended individuals ? Love from Belgium
FINALLY! a person from the other side of the spectrum that makes sense and actually made me question my own fucking opinions,  holy shit, feels like im in another fucking dimension or something, is probably the drugs, but still feels fucking great!, im still going to lurk on 4chan but with a slightly different mindset.
I would fuck this abomination, that is how desperate I am.
To be fair red pill stuff and incels are literally completely unrelated.
Arm the Incels. Let them take revenge.
Oomph the Roosh example made me cringe so hard. Ironically, his assertions of masculinity just show how insecure he is about his masculinity.
Wow this was really deeply touching and no wonder suicide / murder are the outcomes. It's sad and I have an even grearer empathy for self loathers.
Damn girl, it was sad to hear about your insecurities, because I started your video (my first by you) and thought "Is she...? Mmmh no, I guess she just has a suave voice." and then you said "ay, I'm a trans woman" and I was all "damn! Fooled me!" So no, don't worry, your skull is perfect, you look gorgeous and that comes from a random straight woman. Not like my opinion will matter much, but I wanted to say it.  Also, thanks a lot, I've heard the incels name thrown around but was blessedly sheltered from the truth till now, and I guess it's much better learning about it through your awesome video than stumbling on their reddit feed.
You're very clever, I thank you for this vid...subed
You fucked your lipstick up and its makin me crazy .... but other than that you look beautiful. Maby I should also say a nice thing about the content of your video but the only reason I made a comment was because something about your looks catched my attention ... so I just dont
Jordan peterson is kind of a sexist old man... that quote... is so perfect. Peterson is great but at the same time that quote is perfect.
A contra points video I agree with? this is a surprise but a welcome one
i have a suggestion for my follow incels... bang a trap, not a tranny... a trap, it'll change your life :)
Ive noticed similar behavior on pro anna blogs. I'll see girls calling eachother fat or reassuring them that they need to get themselves to a starving weight. And often the recipient is grateful. Because it feeds this self loathing action of breaking their body down. I know its different because its a physical thing they're all working towards but Idk. Not healthy
perfection
Natalie I think I knew you were from Baltimore, but this video reminded me. Anyway I live in Bmore too, we should be friends! :-)
Great video. It's nice to see an analysis from someone with a lot of varied experiences, especially with the common themes of ridicule that incels get, and for good reason a lot of the time - something that I would think only makes their self depricating feelings much stronger.
If I wasn't already lesbian I sure am now
my high ass thinking she fit as fuck till 17:28 guess im gay now
Wow, this was VERY inciteful... I always knew that incels were very self-hating, but damn. This dives into the specifics.  I did feel like commenting on the whole thing about people showering you with comments saying that you're gorgeous HON, ect. I'm a cis woman, but ofc a similar thing happens with all women in general. "All women are beautiful!" "All women are queens!" ect.  I never really participated in this bc it never seemed genuine, and in the back of my mind always believed that those sorts of compliments were never really going to get rid of the real anxiety and self hatred. So, I think it's more useful to say that you don't have to be beautiful or fuckable to men in order to have value as a woman. All humans have intrinsic worth simply because they are born.  Which sounds like hokey shit, and it takes a while to actually say to yourself, "Well.. what if that's actually true?" And it takes even LONGER to actually believe it.  Maybe all the incels need to have that message ingrained in them as well.
So I guess no one, anywhere, ever, is going to question how hypergamy can be gendered in the first place.
wait it's pronounced feemoid? i always thought it was fem-oid
Yo This was my first video of yours that I've ever seen and I had no idea you were trans You look gorgeous and your voice is amazing! Y'all getting a subscriber
Finally a queer that is not a complete unreasonable reality-disconected snowflake peace of shit... props for you contrapoint.
I accidentally clicked on this and I got so enthralled I stayed until the last second. Subscribed!!!!!!!!!! I'm also gonna binge watch since it's my day off. Finally, I might be in love with you? Loved the video.
Your use of lights is simply exquisite.
I’m a cis woman with a big head (lmao), & apparently the secret to men not noticing you have a big head is to have a bigger ass. I’m a lesbian, but maybe this is useful knowledge to someone
If Roosh really feels that baking is some kind of stain on his masculinity, somebody really needs to show him 'Pantheon' from League of Legends.  Dude is literally a fantasy version of a Spartan warrior and he bakes.  Relax.  Enjoy your man-buns....wait.
RICE CELLS HAHA I DIED WHEN I HEARD THAT
Incels= form an identity around not getting laid.
But your a trans woman. You have legit concerns. Incels are not an oppressed group.
"Im ultra masculine as you can see by the huge hairy rat on my face."
Finally time for me to watch this video.
OOF IVE CALLED PEOPLE HON BEFORE BUT THATS BECAUSE IM SOUTHERN I DIDNT KNOW THIS AAAAAAAAAAAAAAA
Wtf. I thought this was an ASMR roleplay.
I have a huge head and I'm a cis-woman... and this hurts me, too. I can't imagine how it feels to transition. Shit. I can't wear female hats :/  I formerly questioned my gender identity because I didn't "fit" in female roles (other than having a good size boobs). I've reconciled it, but this kind of brought that insecurity back. Ugh. Why are people such dicks?
Subbed 💜
ContraPoints is totally feminine looking, she was even very feminine looking before she started transitioning.
honestly, the way you describe the eroticism of rain and the sea is really accurate.
this is so interesting and I am now obsessed
Hmm 😒
You’re not a trans woman anymore, you’re just a woman. Don’t waste your money on the painful face surgeries you don’t need them
you're so well spoken and wonderful! keep up the good work.
So at first I was very attracted to the person because looks and intelligent demeanor. When she said she used to be a man I had the biggest rush of cognitive dissonance! I realized after she said it I started noticing flaws like I was trying to convince myself that she wasn't attractive sub-consciously and this too troubled me...  I honestly didn't know what to think about feeling attraction to a trans woman Great video though, smart and comedic!
This is beautiful?? How did you make a video about Incels beautiful?
this was SO interesting, thank you so much !!
I’m very happy I found this channel. I love your aesthetic and I think you’re very charming and intelligent. You embody a lot of good things in the world, and I hope to see more of your stuff!
you're so gorgeous omg
Hypergamy has been proven by science though, and the 80/20 rule has been proven too by online dating websites and apps. They are not wrong about that, and even non-incels and non-manosphere men have encountered that even if they don't want to associate with those groups.   A lot of what they say is actually based on fact, they just end up down the path of nihilism rather than accept it and try to do what they can given the circumstances.   But the fact that you deny the science behind what they say (as seen in your sarcastic tone) is foolish in my opinion. I feel they probably do find it much harder than a lot of guys for probably the reasons they suggest and a negative mindset drastically compounds it.
Beautiful done, great work! Will be subscribing for more :)
Chris-Chan got laid.... think of that...
There are lots of perfectly respectful "pick up artists"
28:59 like CIS man .... I agree with your video. But found this amusing
What in the goddamn?
Im a conservative but i subscribe to you because you’re high-key hilarious
Chadsplaining FTW
Girl you a kween
You're brilliant!!! Amazing video
Really interesting thoughts. I have one more that wasn't really touched on in the video: inability to talk to girls. It's sort of a confidence thing; If you have enough confidence, talking to girls is easier. If you lack confidence, or fear rejection, talking to girls can be very hard. I came to an important realization sometime in college: girls are actually just people. You can (probably) talk to people, that's easy.  In highschool, I had a very hard time talking to anyone, especially girls. I eventually learned how to talk to guys, but I still couldn't lead or start conversations. When I started college, I was forced to do group projects. Groups with girls. I recognized there was something silly about the different ways I reacted to men and women (and yes, this is a basic, brain stem reaction experienced by most, if not all people at least some point in their lives). I decided that colleagues are colleagues, classmates are classmates, and taking the time to identify them by gender, or my attraction to them would only lead to misery.   Now I can't say I changed overnight and became the smoothest tongue in the west, but it has affected my entire life since that point. I can say that experience is the only fix here. I've had five years to develop these skills, much of that time spent working with women, teaching young teenage girls, and otherwise being human to my human pals. It is often hard, and requires you to turn off parts of your brain that are necessary for normal sexuality.  After all that work, I now have a girlfriend (for the first time at 22), who I was friends with long before I ever considered her in that way. And I can still talk to her.
So glad I'm into dudes. :)
Girl ur dragging me
Wow, that was quite the plot twist. It's probably not helping coming from a random viewer on the internet, but even after having seen a few videos, in no way i would have suspected you to be a trans woman. Even the voice, which is usually a very good tell, didn't hint at it! I think you look gorgeous, but after this video I realize that it's a comment that might backfire and come across as disingenuous :(
how do you have chopin playing in every video i've watched so far? o.O  Hidden message?  Postmodern conspiracy?
that wine glass looks so crystalline i hope it kills me
In love with you. Can we chill?
Worth it just for the "How to block a website" link.
the sissy philosopher
You’re cool.  But you already knew that.
"5th base: anal" I fucking lost it. I had to pause the vid for 5 solid minutes.
Can I be your friend
Olly’s American accent slaps!!!  Great video as usual.
this was so good
honestly I would never have guessed you were trans.
I've just discovered your channel  through this video , which I'm really enjoying btw , but I felt the need to say you are stunning.You have such captivating features and I also love your voice , keep up the good content ! I'm loving both the aesthetics , quality of production and phrasing of opinions .
This is art
You completely took me by surprise with the tranny-reveal
I've never seen your videos or channel but by the will of youtube this vid showed up in my recs. I was laughing my ass off the whole time but once i got to "bangable twink" i lost my shit to the point that i had to pause the video and try to calm myself before i woke up my roommates. Subbed. I wish i could sub 100 times tbh
Never said "I love this bad bitch" so many times in one video
How do incels explain unattractive men who are in loving relationships and have sex regularly with their respective partners?  I just don't fucking get it.
I always get radio silence but I'm not an Incel it's just lesbianism
I finally succumbed to the temptation of YouTube recommendations and I need to tell all my friends that I found the best channel on YouTube.
Wow, you are a boss.
Also, you ARE gorgeous, and, can I just say?  So are your hands.
Absolutely fucking brilliant, my love.
Woah! This is the first of your videos that I’ve seen... I’m blown by how talented you are! This was so insightful, multi-layered, humorous and just great story telling... and it was educational and a strong argument!!! Wow. Just wow. Instant fan. <3
18:45 I didn't win the discourse 😢 what am I missing?
Oh incles
I cried, I have no idea nor am I informed about any of these things but the way you put this all together was brilliant. cheers
INCEL COULD HAVE SOMETHING TO DO WITH THE AMOUNT OF TOXIC CHEMICALS THE SATAN WORSHIPERS HAVE ADDED TO THE WATER SUPPLY TO TRY TO AFFECT THE SEXUAL HORMONES IN MEN'S BODIES PROBABLY IN AN ATTEMPT TO TURN THEM IN TO ANDROGYNOUS SUBDUED CUBE SLAVES #BAPHOMET.
Isn’t that the black pill tho? Red pill is more like “men have it bad too”, which is true in many ways, both genders have their struggles
This lighting tho!
5 bucks if the TTTT group on 4chan are 85% men who don't experience any gender dysphoria. I bet those guys only wanted to be trans to get girls smh.
Is that Olly narrating?
Love the aesthetic choices in this video.  The lighting, the costumes, that wig was fantastic!  I could go on, but just wanted to shout out my appreciation for your artistic choices.
I honestly didn't even know you were transgender until you mentioned it.
Damn, I love being gay
I ACTUALLY STARTED APPLAUDING WHEN THIS FINISHED THIS WAS SO GOOD
I'm a straight guy with no trans-community experience. This is the first video I've watched of yours. I had no clue you were trans and thought you were pretty hot.
18:45 i died for a second
When I heard “imagine how a woman feels,” I imagined her emotional perspective.  Then the guy started talking about the sensation of fucking a woman. Oh! It was a double entendre!  And yeah, I have a guitar and no social media.
Wow I'm obsessed with her
It's hard for me to feel sympathy for the incel community, especially after hearing about men stalking and threatening rape on young girls. Especially after being in relationships with entitled brats who think they're persecuted because no one wants to fuck them. But I really appreciate this video for managing to stir compassion in me, really they're just humans in pain like we all are on this bitch of an earth. I never considered how often they insult themselves because I could only see how they viewed me as less than human. I can't get past lots of these things but that raging hatred and bitterness I've felt and a stubbornness against forgiveness is calming in a lot of ways. This is a really great video, thanks.
Found you via Destiny. I'm only 2 videos in and I'm hooked. You are exactly what I didn't know I needed.   Love from Sweden!
I considered myself an incel. But I'm not part of this mad and toxic community. I was many years ago. I quit the cave. I stopped hating women and I embraced feminism short time after I realized I didn't have a problem with women only, but men too, everyone. I have a problem with every human being. I don't have any friends. No social life at all. Now that I got complimented on my appearance by many women I meet at college or work, I realized it's about my personality and social life. How are you supposed to have sex if you literally never meet any human being? How you get a girlfriend if you stay alone for years, if the only people you know are people at work and teacher and you refuse any teamwork, refuse any student party or co-workers party? All those years I hated people and complained about my appearance, not being muscular enough, not fashion enough, etc. But I was rejecting myself from others and acting weird or even rude with everyone. I worked hard on my appearance alone. It pay, but things couldn't work out with women. Just for a couple smile and great gaze. If amateur porn learn me something is that ugly and fat men can have sex with a lot of sexy and fun women. Now I work on my social life and personality. Things never been so difficult. I think I just hate whole " social game". At least with physical appearance you know what you got. No bullshit, no gossip, no mistrust, no betrayal, no gang and herd mentality. I think I will be forever alone and that is great. Making friends is too complicated.
Hi. Good video but one point to make. Incels believe in the blackpill. The also have a strong beef with people who believe in the redpill
I enjoyed this whole thing, humorous and informative. Good closing statements there, and I do love the sound of rain and rumbling thunder... but where I'm at it's dry as a mummy's cooch so I have to have my Echo Dot play the effects through my Polk audio system to fall asleep. =\
Oh my goodness...
At times I’m glad I met my husband through a friend and didn’t have to dive into dating sites and apps.
hmmmmm im wondering if theres a term for female incels... hating on men and feeling hopeless to get guys
First video I’ve seen from you and I subbed. Blown away by your content. Keep it up you eloquent fuckin’ woman! 😘
I'm a cis woman and NGL I have a really square jaw, big headed bitch 😂
it's so wonderful to see a trans woman have a platform like this! sometimes society doesn't want to lift y'all up but i am very happy to see you succeeding <3 <3 <3
YOU ARE FLAWLESS.
"The firing squad of bad dicks" HAHAHAHAH
lol my boyfriend was a 25 year old virgin, he was just naive, many women like him he just didn´t notice them, so incels, stop the hatred, and look around, i know that many womens are like me, and may love iu if iu respect them <3 (sorry for bad english)
You probably get this a lot but when you said you were trans, I was a bit confused. I legit thought you were a biological woman, your transition was/is a success in my opinion.
The problem I have with women is I am not exposed to enough of them to find one that is compatible with me. With no college degree, I have to work shitty jobs where men are the majority of the workforce because those are the only ones that pay enough to actually live. I can't work at McDonald's where I know there are female coworkers because McDonald's doesn't pay jack fucking shit. I might interact with some of the female office workers from time to time but they are usually married and look down on me because they're so much better they did 4 extra years of school than me so they make more than me sitting on their asses being unproductive. Being gay would actually make things worse so I'm glad I'm not gay because all the dudes working shitty dirty jobs are the most homophobic pieces of shit you'll ever meet. You might say go browse online but the way I see it, if any woman is searching for a man on the internet then she's a fucked up woman because she hasn't been snatched up yet. The only thing I can do is fuck broads I find on the internet whether it's free or paid and never form a meaningful relationship because the women with whom I can bond with are inaccessible. It doesn't bother me though because my mother whom I thought was a good christian woman ended up cheating on my father so I don't think I'll ever trust women to be faithful.
You seem like a wonderful person. Thank you. You have a new subscriber.
Whoa, this was downvoted by a LOT of Incels who didn't watch the video O_o
FEMOIDS
AAAaannd subbed.
Some points that I'd like to say that you just plain got wrong. I'd say I could get a list of 10 things but I'm sticking with 4 this time.  1) Incels don't think all normies become betabux. That's just bullshit. Everyone can looksmax and become atleast a chadlite or a high-tier normie. 2) Women are hated by incels. Not true, they may think women are cruel to reject them but most incels adore women. 3) Swallowing a blackpill does NOT mean it's impossible to be happy and that you're destined to be an incel. Saying it again, looksmax - going to the gym, eating more healthily, not staying inside for longer periods of times, taking care of one's hygiene, getting good fitting clothes, cosmetic surgery and so on. 4) Most incels are NOT dangerous. Only a couple of them are. Wasn't there a saying that don't judge a person by its cover? You clearly have not seen the top posts of r/braincels. The misogynistic and plain hateful posts are downvoted to oblivion. Check for yourself!  Ps. I like to check braincels every now and then because the self depreciating humor is so funny. I'm a high-tier normie myself or even a chadlite
as you relEASE e v e r y o u n c e
I didn't even realize you were trans until you've mentioned it.
Debate!!!
”I used to be a man” *NANI*
Love the setup and you're very smart and well spoken
Is this thing trans
I knew I recognized you! we live in the same friggin city.
Great video, very informative.
Omg I think I love you
I would have felt like these guys back when i was a teen, i have to wonder if people in negative mental places are better off not finding like minded people.
why is he always raising his voice? it sounds very strange, i mean i get that its a character, but it is hard for me to listen to the voice, while the points are still interesting
I never would have guessed you are transitioning. Absolutely gorgeous
Was that Blaire White shade towards the end?
OKAY SO I CAME HERE FROM YOUR JP VIDEO AND CAN I SAY THAT I HAD NO IDEA YOU WERE TRANS UNTIL YOU SAID SOMETHING. YOU ARE A GORGEOUS WOMAN AND I AM JUST IN SHOCK THAT YOU ARE TRANS. IF YOU DIDNT TELL ME ID ASSUME YOU WERE BORN IN A WOMAN BODY.
That hon-esty! (see what I did there) Seriously, tho. Amazing breakdown of this topic, and your honesty, openness and humor are an inspiration. Thanks so much for this! <3
I love this so much, and you are femme as heck
This felt like a very nice sit down chat
Annnnnnnnnndddddddddd Subscribed. Thank you for your service
First progressive youtuber i might fall inlove with!  amazing script, great editing, a sense of humour and actually understanding!  definetly subscribing to you! keep the amazing work up, please!
lol . . "ultra masculine". bc of the bushy beard?  Well, I'm an actual scientist and a woman (because women can be scientists) . . and I bake (so I can be masculine, too.)
The problem is most of them think women are aliens, not people.  They can't just treat them like humans.  Most women I know like nerds . . .The men here, however, who identify as "nice guys" are actually mean douchebags who threaten to harm women and blame all their problems on women.  Women have tough times dating and are rejected as well.  But we don't go on a shooting spree because of it.  I have not sympathy for these men.  They cause their own problems.  Everyone can accept their own story and improve themselves for the better.  It takes hard work.
"Grab them by their Black Ops t-shirts"  fucking 10/10
Really like the lighting
I seen a tumblr post talking about the recent L&O episode about incels. Flip to YouTube and this video was suggested. First time seeing one of your videos, and gotta say, loved it. Well spoken and very informitive lol I dont have an urge to dig into this toxic community. Also, you probably hear this a lot, but you have a very attractive skull lol. I hope I add one more positive note to think about when you see some of that shit about you. Cant wait to binge through all your other videos.
I love this so much?? You’re actually doing a lot research and beautiful and funny af
Hbomberguy told me about your and I love you content so much
I just got here and I like it. Cozy, like sitting down talking about stuff with a cool aunt or something. Have a good day, everyone.
I am a vagina owner and I still call it a fuck hole. You are a sexy goddess and I wish to worship at your feet.
You’re gorgeous.
Same with tinder. I used it a couple of months, got a couple of dates and got bored of the thing.   never slept with any tinder date, though
I've never seen contra's videos before. I like it!
Leafyishere had the worst bone structure yet he got pussy. (ALL INCEL ARGUEMENTS ARE WRONG)
So, incels are just another group of people without any sense of reality like antivaxxers or flatearthers?
Because all one ahould want on a girl is sex... Pathetic
I remember seeing an update on one of the guys you screencapped in r/Braincels who said he was going to kill himself. He obviously didn't go through with it, but he did go through some tough shit including getting arrested before taking a long hard look at himself. He posted (I believe on r/IncelTears) that he's been trying to get better,  and no longer subscribes to the ideology but struggles still with the self-depreciating thoughts like you said. Just thought I should give this in light of everything.
Just excellent. Loved it.
You are rather feminine in many ways, I can't put my finger on it though but there was something just slightly uncanny about you, and somehow managed to guess your gender within the first minutes. I'm still not sure what though, but you're attractive! I called my self an incel back before I knew there was a community, and I'm glad I never heard about or found the community, cause I don't think I'd be here if I had, I have battled bullying, depression, social anxiety and more most of my life, and being in such a toxic place would likely have pushed me over the edge. Oh and I'm finally getting therapy! I had an experience the other day though, I had just gotten laid off (essentially my skills were not needed and the small company couldn't afford to just keep me around, that's totally fair), I was downer in the dumps than usual, and feeling lonelier than ever. something made me sign up for one of these intercontinental dating sites (not something I'd even considered before). But fuck .. :O I had the experience of what women must go through when they join tinder. this site doesn't do matches but rely on one paying to get to read/reply to messages, and I'd gotten +70 messages in just one day, that's frankly just scary :O xD
Genuinely impressive video. Very thoughtful.
i feel like i'm in a class listening to a lecture. an exciting one.
I feel bad for incels who hate women. Incels started via a woman who was well an incel
I JUST DISCOVERED YOU AND I LOVE YOU!!!
Insta sub!
"Oh... it's so big."
If it helps at all, I live in a very LGBTQ friendly community and have some trans friends through that. As a straight man I must say it helps that you shared that 'hon' information because I never want to make that mistake around people I like and respect. It's better to learn about slurs in a matter of fact way like you provided in your video than by learning it by accidentally dropping some unintentional lingo without knowing what it means in that community.
Can I have some corn dog?
Hey Contra!  I don't really agree with much of what you do politically, and I don't agree fully with everything you've said in this video (I think there are some key differences between the red pills in the "manosphere", since there are differences in application that don't make sense if only looking at the specific incel red pill when applied to MRAs).  Having said that, I found your vid highly entertaining and quite relatable. You clearly put a lot of time and effort into this project and it shows!  Great vid, I'll be keeping a tab on you from now on. Also, send my props to your voice actor, he was pretty swell.
i couldnt even tell you were trans until you mentioned it. TTTT is horrible
I know you have good intentions and I genuinely found you and the video quite entertaining, but you need to do more research on the incel terminology and beliefs, some of the points you showed are off the mark or just plainly misinterpreted.
Thank you for the information and the angle you took this topic at. I sincerely like that you gave honest critical analysis while making a point not to mock.
So I guess watching a lot of mumkey Elliot Rodger videos has put this video on my front page lol
Now on my to do list  Move to Baltimore Swipe through tinder looking for ContraPoints SuperLike
fucking fantastic. well done.
Jordan Peterson is not sexist, lol. I disagree with a lot of his political views, but he is not sexist, I've watched a ton of his talks.
The lighting is so damn good I'm 😍
Not gonna lie when you said femoids I lost my shit
I've never listened to a tranny for so long
Thanks.  Informative, and thoughtful.
This is good and necessary...
I love the bi lighting. :)
When I first discovered this channel I was legitimately surprised to find out that you are trans. Glad your transition is going so well and hope your channel keeps growing.
“At least these pricks care enough about my pussy to be an asshole about my dick!” What a line 👏👏👏
incels idolize sex as if its life changing, like yeah, it's great, but it isn't going to change your life that much. if you were a sad fuck before, you're still gonna be after it
Hm. What I take I away from this video: I'll hug you :D
saw this video, instantaneous subscribe
as a guy, but not one of these guys..Sorry.  its embarrassing to even hear this stuff from these idiots said out loud. I just kind of feel the need to apologize for this stuff existing, by even being the same gender as these twits. also, really strong tie together at the end, that had an amazing use of perspective to get at it in ways most cant.  really good.
This has no right beign as good and as captivating as it is. Well done, keep it up.
I totally didnt know you were trans
You are beautiful just as you are! You don't need to shave any millimeters of bones anywhere.
Yeah Peter Dinklage and the passionate Tyrion Lanaster fandom is proof that this incel stuff is crap.  Charm, confidence, and personality can overcome any perceived physical short comings.
Subscriiiiiibed! Never knew this channel existed. This was an excellent video that was informative without being cruel to incels.
sometimes i get asked if im trans, I'm assuming it's because I have a unisex shaped face and my body turned out more like my dads than my mothers. you have cheekbones for days and your voice is 10 times more feminine than most women.
I like your voice i just stumbled across this video so unique in many ways 🤖 femoid
trust me, you are absolutely gorgeous and your voice is also beautiful
“Hello boys, let’s talk about bone structure”, with that smoldering look into the camera, had me laughing out loud. Nice video!
3:18 cause women are unobtainable for them?
The moment when you said you didn't believe people who complimented you because that's just what they're supposed to say to be polite - wow. I identify with that so much. Honestly I'd say that's one of the most universal experiences of being a woman. There are an awful lot of midwestern women sharing badly photoshopped Facebook quote pics that claim the secret to female self- esteem is to "tell a girl she's beautiful every day." If it's required, what the hell does it mean?
I'll let calling Jordan a sexist slide cause the rest of the video was good
I love everything about the way this is produced/presented. This is wonderful. You're so cool!
I really like those earrings you're wearing.  Have a nice day
You’re absolutely stunning and never would have guessed you are trans (not that it matters) love your channel. Instant sub. Effing hilarious.
wow super surprised by how much I liked this, I wasnt really sure what your channel was about but I had heard of you before and for some reason didnt think it would be my cup of tea but was just watching random vids while working on other stuff and clicked on this one and I am super happy I did.  Thanks for this, well spent time.
You amaze me. 💯💯💯
Love love love love love ya girl. My first vid and you are spectacular! I clicked on the thumbnail because I thought, what a goddess/ fantastic makeup artist! Don’t ever believe that you are awful and ugly!
Just discovered your channel. Just wanted to let you know that I didn’t think you were trans until you brought it up. You don’t like look like a man at all
This is beautiful. As a young lesbian in denial, lurking through this community really fucked me up, as you say, it's addictive, you can't help but look at it. Fortunately I quit a year and a couple of months ago. This is one of the most toxic communities online.
I almost wanted to give a standing ovation at the end of this video. But then I realized I'm at office
Wow, this video could hit the fabled 1 mil. We've come along way folks.
Not trying to be sexist. Is the host male or female? The voice throws me off. Please help. Thanks
how did this get so many dislikes?
All true , yet I'm still drawn to the hillbilly far more than to you.
I’m looking forward to a time when there isn’t any shame about having transitioned. Right now it seems like it would be taken the wrong way to ask if someone is transgender or to compliment them on how well they’ve succeeded in the endeavor. For what it’s worth you look absolutely gorgeous.
I am speechless, you are everything!
i just found this and i'm in love?? with??? you??? don't stop doin what ur doin i love you ok bye
I've just seen this video, and first, you're gorgeous. Second, with the skull, and whole Gothic look, you remind me of Hamlet. But it's amazing to see a woman talking about this.
I think I should watch more of these.
you rock lady
These men crack me up. You come up with stupid names and talk shit about women, then you wonder why no female wants to talk to you, or touch your pee pee. Yeah it's true, less attractive guys CAN get laid. But if you geniunely want a woman to care about you, (or have sex ) be polite, be nice and quit talking about how much you deserve and want sex.
You are a male, not a female. The Cultural Bolshevists say you are a woman, but you are nothing but the gender you were assigned. Get out, Jew.
First time straight male viewer here (Not an incel though). First of, you look great!  Secondly, and more important, you've made some awesome, insightful content and I really love your video. Will promptly check out the channel. Keep up the great work! ( :
lol even though I only just found this channel, the comfort to the lesbian fans made me feel so called out. <3 amazing video, incredible lighting, in depth discussion and great pacing!! i’m excited to keep watching your vids, it’s tough to find a youtuber who not only has a soothing voice but also understands the deep eroticism of a thunderstorm these days.
You seem very nice... Troubled... But nice...  May the sun always warm your face and the winds always be at your back... and if your looking at what I just typed and are saying wtf?... It's just a nice way of saying good luck... When good luck doesn't seem adequate. ✌
I don't care how you look. I want someone who is wise, honest, sensitive, and will contemplate death with me.
I don't typically like transexuals, but I like you.  Good job
The sexist old man comment about JP was a joke right.......?
This is the first video I found on your channel. I didn't even know you were trans.  The Incel mindset is poisonous. It's a mindset that convinces you that all of your efforts will be fruitless, and therefore you should stop trying. It's a mindset that projects personal insecurities and feelings of inadequacy onto others to berate yourself. I feel sorry for the people who feel trapped within it. For those who are, know that your efforts are not in vain, and that you will grow from it.  For any incels out there reading this, before you can find someone who will love and cherish you, you need to learn to love yourself. You are a valuable and precious human being, and you deserve the time and love that you can give yourself. Even if it's not always easy, try to take care of yourself, physically and emotionally, and start focusing on your life purpose and what you want to do. You may not always be on top of it every day, but every little effort is a step of progress, and you will grow into a stronger person, and be able to look back on how far you've come. Be proud of yourself.  And for those who want any important tips on how to talk and engage with women, research body language and how women communicate (I would recommend Corey Wayne's "The 3% Man", it has a lot of good information). You want to know what all women desire the most? Security. Stability. They want to feel safe. When first meeting you, they often test your security by saying or doing something and seeing if it affects you. If they can poke at you and you don't react to it,  that's attractive.
This is my first Contrapoints video(been meaning to check her out for ages, just hadn't done so) and this is such a fantastic breakdown, I'm glad I tuned in.  But also: YOUR MAKEUP IS SO FANTASTIC hot damn.  You have great eyebrows.
Please dont fuck the sea - fish pee in there
I loved this video. Also, you're gorgeous!! You kinda favor Winona Ryder :)
Has Roosh never seen Kiki's Delivery Service? That baker dude is the Platonic male ideal, the archetype of the eternal masculine.   That movie is why I bake, by the way. Like, literally every day. I want that dude's epic aura of awesome.
New viewer here. Fucking never stop what you;re doing, this shit is like crack
The David Attenborough imitation slayed me. OMG. Hilarious shit.
Oh hello, new favorite channel.
Their community produces so many mass murderers.  I only know of two that have anything to do with it.  Correlation does not equal causation.
Jordan Peterson is not a sexist old man.
If she did ASMR I’d watch it
You have the most beautiful skull.  I want your skull.  ... GIVE ME YOUR SKULL.
Getting close to 1 Million Views! 😲
Waiting for Buffalo Bill to come out of the curtains with another female victim....
I fetishize short guys.
Incels: *whines over how women won't give them the time of day much less their pussy*  Incels: *whines over how women—enough to refer to as "they", as if they're numerous in number— talk to them too much about their problems*  their thought processes are a goddamn Gordian knot
Congratulations you win today's discourse!!!! I'm dying 😂😂
This is amazing. The set and lighting and editing... mesmerising. Going to binge watch your videos now!
40+ y/o black pill. Grad school educated, employed, thoughtful, knows how to make women feel special, a gent, car, living alone, about a 6 in looks....but a virgin. Never had a girlfriend.  This seems to be a slick nicer way of trolling isolated people. Not helpful.  I hate chasing women...the idea is so unpleasant that I would rather be hung by my eyelids. Being a black guy doesn't help (my biggest handicap). So my market value is low.....and it doesn't matter how great of a guy you are. There are certain things that can't be overcome (race is one of the biggest). Unfortunately dating sites don't work if you aren't in the top 10-20% of white males. Women are extremely shallow. A guy could be a good catch....but if his wallet & outer shell isn't perfect or to the liking of the avg woman...then the decent guy can never be discovered. Yet... I have personally known of jackasses over the years....  guys of little substance....a-holes, abusers, "players", thugs, criminals, who not only get plenty of dates & sex...but women often chase THEM. This is a strange & evil world.
this was an amazing video
I despise contrapoints...but did I just agree (for the most part) with contrapoints? This whole incel thing is turning the world upside down... ;P
"... AS A TRANS WOMAN ..." Oh fuck, that was gooooooood. You are the best.
Well females do tend to choose guys on looks alone or on there ability to provide bone structure is the basis of attractiveness pretty much are the Chad's of society
Incel Un-Chad has the profile of an Lovecraftian fishman.   Many fish in the sea for a fishman, Un-Chad.
I'm a little confused. It seems like you put a lot of time and thought into this video???
Please stop making me want to fuck the ocean. I have enough issues.
The most dangerous part of the incel philosophy is that... well, they're not exactly wrong. It's a mindset that you can't logic your way out of because a lot of what they think is a catastrophized version of the truth. Yeah, Chads are more attractive and it really does only have to do with skull shape. Yeah, feminism and the sexual revolution has empowered women to be a lot pickier with their partners, as being married is no longer a basic element of their survival anymore. Yeah, some women are vapid bimbos that emotionally abuse people.  However, all of that can be technically true without leading to the conclusion they think it does. You can actually use this information to your advantage. You can't change your skull shape, but "Chads" are also really well dressed and groomed. Knowing you will be judged on your appearance means you can leverage your appearance to your advantage as much as possible. You can't be taller, but you can work on having great posture. You can't change that women tend to be attracted to rich and successful guys, but you can work to become rich and successful.  And yeah, maybe the little monster in your head will say people will accuse you of overcompensating, but here's the straight dope: everyone is constantly compensating for their perceived shortcomings. That's kind of how we get along with each other in society. Radical honesty would be a completely overwhelming environment to live in because people can hardly deal with their own problems and insecurities, let alone literally everyone's. So go for it. Compensate. Because you can either compensate and probably get laid or refuse to compensate and remain alone. The important part is that the decision to improve yourself and your status or not is your own *voluntary* choice, no one else's.
I'm confused. On one hand you acknowledge the ridiculousness of the skull science yet you seem pretty serious about getting that skull surgery. I mean, you do actually realise that's bullshit right? I mean, think of all the female icons with pronounced bone structure. Some of them are beautiful exactly because it makes contrast from the mundane.   Also, I don't know about TTTT but I know plenty of regular-girl-looking trans girls that call each other hon. It's just nicely feminine term of endearment and hearing it as anything else is just rife with internalised trans-misogyny. This is troubling.
As someone who's mostly a right wing focused, and was definitely anti-SJW in a lot of camps, I really gotta say, its really refreshing watching a video like this.  Its a very well educated and funny video, and I didn't feel a tug of bias going on, so I enjoyed listening to someone speak rationally and like a mediator about these subjects rather than an emotional knee jerk or a rational oversimplification. No issue is black or white, and I really prefer when people talking about a subject aren't talking about it as if they need their team to win, or talking about it in a way that frames it so its harder to see it in any other way. When I clicked on this video, I literally expected you to say that the incel's are completely at fault, that incels are just misogynistic, angry men who're angry at the world and everyone around them for the situation they're in. This was a very good video.  By the way, referring to Elliot Rodger as an "emminently bangable twink" made me uncomfortable, but also a little more angry at him as a person. Mainly because even I (straight male) thought he wasn't exactly ugly, and he could totally find someone to be in a relationship with, let alone just fuck. But Elliot's problem was in his own mind. Mentalcel/Personalitycel, in my mind, if he wasn't so angry, bitter and resentful, he could have probably pulled off being cute and dorky and sorted his life out. Instead, several people are dead and its all because he was either too stupid, too lazy, (or to give him some credit) too downtrodden to put himself in a position where the problems he claimed he had would go away.
Black dick?
First time viewer, I learned things and literally laughed out loud.
1) I'd prefer the radio silence, if I'm honest... 2) I'm saving this video. Thanks for posting it.
Girl, your videos are great and your make up is on point. Don't get feminising surgery your face is beautiful. I'm going to trawl through your videos because they're fab.
First time viewer. I literally couldn’t tell that you were trans. I thought you were a woman with a somewhat low voice lol.
So interesting, thank you! You look like a Russian supermodel. You had me spell bound. I'm CIS and think of myself as half mermaid.
this was beautiful <3
god damn these people are insane
Hm. The incel woman-hating is almost like a mirror to tumblr’s worst shit.
wait you say you are not proud of being once a man, yet you criticize man for misogyny all the time? another hypocrite
I dont want to be rude but I didnt even noticed your are transgender 😅😅
So much to say, so little time. Too bad. Liked the allusion to 18th century phrenology without explicitly mentioning it, just leaving the whole historical string of horrible/crazy precursors at that. Liked everything else too.
i never would have guessed you were trans until you mentioned it. you’re so pretty!
Cool wig. The French curly one. It looks really pretty!!
That was a hell of a plot twist that you know both sides of tinder
A super interesting video!
Rock n Roll is not dead. It's alive and well, and goes by the name of Courtney Barnett.
i wondered why i love you so much almost immediately and then you mentioned you’re from baltimore which is my hometown!
Unfortunately the darkness is stronger than the light in alot of things in life. But alot of people just want the easy way out... which is, as you touched upon, catastrophizing... or as it's also known a self-fulfilling prophecy. But incels & other mentally ill people aren't the only ones doing it. The so-called "Chad's" do the exact same thing, just not over the same thing. Fast-tracking life, it's obligations, responsibilities and even joys is an innate human trait; instant gratification. Pretty much every form of modern "mental illness" spurs from one thing... impatience. Relationships & sex = time & trust. Simple as that.
I lost a ton of weight, got in shape, started dressing nicer, kept clean, kept my house clean, smelled neutral, got a better job, became more self confident and outgoing and started getting laid constantly. It's not that hard guys. Take care of yourself, put yourself out there and don't let the rejections hold you back.
This made my fucking day!
omigosh this was awesome! not just because you're extremely funny but because honestly? i can absolutly identify with so much of these. i think that there was a time in my life where i was headed down the road that would make me an "incel" at the time the term was neckbeard. i saw myself like that alot, but i also realised how depressing it was, and how much i didn't want to go that way. i've managed to escape it by transitioning myself, but i still understand to an extent.
I must say, while it’s clear we come from different sides of the Political Isle, But damn, i had some good laughs, and you had good points. Thanks for the vid!
I know we were making fun of the bread guy but honestly the term bread scientist sound really fucking cool.
What makes a face Dimorphic? Bone and fat, you can change the fat but not the bone. You Can get surgery make these features be more Dimorphic opposite to birth sex. In Some cases yes, in a lot, yes. But not in all. That's the sad truth...  Not everyone will pass based on structure.
I’m not going to justify any incel crap and their “not even going to try”, mentally. However for those that don’t know, I’m going to put in a female friendly definition of a few things.  *Red Pill:* practical application of Evolutionary Psychology - as seen by many that have limited exposure to Evolutionary Psychology and or exposure to cultures existing in a pre agrarian society. There’s actually a good amount of information here that’s helpful for male/female pare bonding, but you have to be careful about the culturally specific aspects and myths. Classic example of this is dispelling the “Walt Disney” view of females, and recognizing that men and women are moral animals. It also points out that women really don’t have the concept of “relationship equity”, or in other words, the last 10 years don’t count, only now counts.   *Hypergamy:* (my personal definition) women are attracted to men that “they look up to, have self respect, can and will say no to her when it is warranted, and gets shit done.” This is especially true if she AND her friends look up to him, and if her friends mates look up to that guy, it’s like she is winning the lottery.   Now, the question becomes what is “up” and up from where?  Often “up” is subjective and per woman. However it is commonly viewed as socioeconomic. It can be intellectually driven, skills, art, etc though. Therefore, as a women moves up the socioeconomic scale, her version of what “up” is also moves up. It’s why so many females in the corporate landscape, especially VPs, and CEOs, have such a hard time finding a “good man.”
This is soooo well done it seems untrue. Keep up the amazing work.
Waiting on the female version of incels but i highly doubt female can get this warped or stupid.
I am watching this video for the second time today just to listen to you say feEEEEeEEEeeEEEEmMmmoooOOoOooIIIiiiiiIDdDddssssssss
You are so well spoken and so beautiful I think I've found a new favorite channel. 😍
*_HMMMMMMMMM_* THE WATER CYCLE !!!
This video had me so hooked from the start that since I had to pee and felt distracted, I went to the restroom, came back and restarted the video from a quarter in just to give it the attention it deserved.
Why does this video make me want to save the incels ? They are so pitiful my heart breaks for them.
Fuckable skull? *Conjures mental images of a murderer using holes in a decapitated head to masturbate*.... Ahhh! My brain!
These videos are so aesthetically pleasing and glittery and oh my god im gay
I'm learning so much oh my God
you're kind of a genius.
Holy shit this had me rolling on the floor. I love it. Line em up and knock em down
Me asusta, me he cruzado muchas veces a este tipo de gente en internet
I'd ask you to stop sexualizing water if I didn't love it.
I am 30 a virgin and in the verge of being an incel   This slightly impeded me
Oh no... I’m from the South and have a habit of calling people  hon and honey as a loose term of endearment...  Regardless of whether or not I need to change my vocabulary, I won’t be able to stop thinking about it being a slur. I’ve said it to a trans man before... dunno if he knew the slur or was offended, but I hope not.
Extremely interesting video. Almost brought me to tears. I wrote a journal entry about the topics discussed and how alot of it relates to my dysphoria. Thank you Contrapoints ☺️
The sensuality of a thunderstorm is very beautiful
I love how these guys think they just figured all this shit out. like psychologists are still looking into it but these guys are like “nope we got it, no need to look into it further”
keep your dick trust me. u will regret having a mangled fake pussy...
I found your channel on accident. I love you, woman. Keep on being yourself.
Whoa whoa whoa @21:00.  Again, in the spirit of not isolating people:    Men are and still will be responsible for lekking.  Men are trained to be the responders to social cues, where we look for approval from women to procede.  As a man who feels himself as overly concerned about his lover's pleasure and concern over his own performance, I feel like you would, as a channel or woman, benefit from teaching an approach "guided men" that identified as hetro into the conception  that helping to please others causes enjoyment.
First time viewer. Great work.
Why can't they have a wank and get on with life like normal people til they find a chick lmao
I think your voice is so soothing and beautiful. I thought that at 5 minutes and still think that at the end of the video. One of the reasons I finished, besides the interesting content.
No one is talking about female incels aka walled out and stalled out crazy cat ladies?
Holy shit this is funny
Great set and sound design
SELF LOATHING 100
People who don't know any better say that Peterson is sexist, but ask them to provide any examples of him doing or saying anything that would suggest he is and they never can.
I am .... flabberghasted! You're absolutely fantastic! You made excellent points and I could honestly listen to you talk forever! Thank you <3
Thank god im not a hetero
Hey, just popping in to say that you're gorgeous, lest you forget. And thanks for the videos. Cheers!
The probleme is hormonal. And as I get hormone i can understand both camps. As a guy I was always obsessed my sex and was dating for that. As a transgirl now im more attracted by having discussion all night and be in a delicat and slow seduction. I lived the testoseron hornyness and now the oestrogenous slowliness. There is NO bad camps, there are both valids. The good road, the most fast way to find your ideal partner is homosexuality ♡. Heterosexuality is not a sexual practice, its a political regime to control birth and growing population. Make babies doesnt need to be a couple affair.
I RECCOMENDED CONTRA TO MY TEACHER BUT I FORGOT THIS BEGINNING OH FUCK NO
not all women are thots and hoes, but certainly lots of them are.
You there was always some doubt that you were a man, but damn you are a hot man.
Well this is just great. Now every time I turn on the sleep sheep to ocean sounds I get a throbbing erection. Thanks a lot! (I'm totally going to get on a watch list for that comment)
Even trying to understand incels is just toxic. I guess I just pity them.
The youtube algorithm is on point this week! I'm so happy I discovered you :D
I was watching too many redpill/blackpill videos, and it was starting to get me down. Thanks for reminding me that this stuff is just a big delusion brought on by anxiety, low self-esteem, and deep insecurities.
how some people can tell you that you're not a woman?? you're more feminine than i'll ever be!! maybe it's because of my big head XD
That's the first video I watched from you. Then I fell in love.
Hahaha This video is damm funny.
I can understand how incels come into existence. I remember when I was in middle and high school, sexual activity had become attached to one's self worth. If you were a boy, and hadn't had sex with a girl, you we're a faggot. Plain and simple. There was a tremendous amount of pressure for boys to have sex among my generation, so much so that it drives people mad. I remember by the time I was a senior in high school, I wanted to take a gun to school and shoot as many of the people that was there because everyone was so hostile, and this was one of the subjects that was driving me to fantasize about the deaths of everyone I knew. To this day, I do not wish the majority of people I went to school with well. Incels are a toxic group produced by a toxic society, and they choose to blame women for their lack of self-esteem/respect because that's easier than thinking about society as a whole, and all the externalities of our society that cause this cycle of verbal and psychological abuse.
Redirected here from reddit. I have to say, I am REALLY impressed. You have a new subscriber. Here's to being reasonable (trying to understand instead of pointing fingers), steadfast when it counts, and being VULNERABLE.
This video not only explains Incels but the growing hatred we are seeing online.
its 2 am and this is actually so stressful to think about and watch but i must learn about this group...
you sound like a nigga
That bread scientist can't be real surely?  How can you be so scared of being emasculated by making food?
This was AWESOME! Subscribed :)
These guys are idiots but even still someone needs to support the starving pornography market.
Ultra masculine bread scientist
"Bread Scientist" I fucking fell apart
First time viewing. You probably don't want to hear this, but I didn't know about you or that you are trans going in and the voice really did give it away pretty early on. You sound like a woman with a sore throat or cold, but that is fixable. Face looks ok! I hope your transition is going well and that you're happy!
I can't believe this is my first time seeing your channel. Your perspective made me see all of this in a new light.  I am also trans, and it has been a long road to be the person I am today (which is true for most ppl I'm sure). I had my own 4chan phase with some big regrets, though back in like 2007 so it was different in nature to what you've spoken about. Working through my own self-hate and misogyny has been so hard, but so worth it. And I am so much better off today <3  Also I focused on Chopin in piano lessons when I was a teen and I happy bc I liked playing some of these songs that you used. WHeeeeeee!
FEEEMOOOIIDDDSSSS
"Whatever hurts is true."  God that cuts deep. It's really sad how people get into these horrible cycles of self loathing. The entirely unjust and avoidable pain that gets inflicted on themselves and others when they project, or lure unsuspecting, vulnerable people into the fold- people with depression, anxiety, insecurity, people coming down off of a bad breakup, people with mental health issues that cause them to be susceptible to these messages, and internalizing them to devastating effect.  I know it sounds like a platitude from some kids' film but it's really true that we should all try not to care what people think about us. That we should try to afford ourselves forgiveness and accept what makes us unique and likeable.  It's so easy to get into patterns of self loathing- and it can destroy your life. It's almost physically painful to think there are people who go about their lives, believing fully in these horrible ideologies of pain and hopelessness.   It doesn't have to be that way- I know that when a person is in pain, the last thing they want is to be condescended to. I know because I've been the hurting person who wanted to lash out at anyone trying to help.  But even if you can't accept help from others, even if you don't want advice from others yet, at least do yourself the courtesy of admitting to yourself that you have a problem. Admit to yourself that things weren't always this way. And dare to admit to yourself that they won't always be this way, if you're willing to take a chance on change.  Even if you don't believe it, try to convince yourself that life is in constant flux, and that you can still change everything.
Didn't even know you were a born man until you said so.  Edit: Cutting is about drowning out/dealing with emotional pain by dealing yourself physical pain. It's also about control, though that's not something you acknowledge then. That's something of a conclusion I reached later in life long after the fact and maybe also years of therapy later. It was a pain I had control of in a world that brought me nothing but pain and helplessness. I didn't control anything but those moments I took something sharp to my wrists and it was fairly meditative in it's symbolism and it's significance to me back then. I don't recommend anyone do it(don't) but it's from experience I can say that it didn't make my life any easier. If anything it was used to take things even more out of my choice or control. Life is simpler and has less drama without cutting.  Painting is better. Try that(to anyone reading this who may cut or otherwise harm themselves). Just anything but cutting or some other form of self harm. Find something else, and trust me there IS always something else that works. Not saying it was easy to stop, especially with the extent of crap I had going on back then but... find a manner of self expression you have control over. A story, a journal, throw black paint on a canvas and call it art if that's what helps you(i should note that's NOT what I do but I had moments sort of like that back then as well) but please(if you are reading this) don't hurt yourselves. It doesn't stop it. It's like a really big wave from the ocean. You can't let it sweep you away like that. In the end it's more letting the pain rule you than actually taking any sort of control over yourself, your body, or your life.
Your voice is so relaxing.
Saw a bit of your Jordan Peterson video and immediately disliked you.. Fanboy kneejerk reaction. Watching more though, it was an absolute misjudgement. You are very intelligent and poignant in your explanations and tackled this particular subject with a lot of compassion, even for a volatile and sexist group of people that is very easy to target and easier to hate. Got a new subscriber.
This was the first ContraPoints video that I saw. What an introduction! Now I've watched about half of all the videos and I am not any less impressed. Keep up the good work.
These guys need to stop thinking everything in life is about sex. Seriously.
Contra, I think you do good work well. That’s about as big a compliment I think I can give anyone.
I have never ever been this educated before in such a short amount of time. This is the first time I'm atching any of your content, and I'm really impressed!
Excellent excellent work.
This is a great video
lol youre awesome
Lie down and rot sounds like a cool stoner doom album. Oh and Rock and Roll will never die!!!!!!!!!!!!!! Ace love has no borders nationalities or gender DO IT!!!!!!!! ROCK AND ROLL HAS NO BOUNDERIES, I feel these people should follow the teachings of guitar wolf, he touches upon them in the biographical documentary Wild Zero. He saved us from Alien Zombies you know!
Being ftm trans is a fucking struggle when it comes to dating. Straight guys are interested in swinging that way... right up until it's time to go somewhere in public with me. I have NEVER had a message on tinder. Or POF. I've only ever found luck in Grindr with skeezbags. SO WHAT THE FUCK DO I DO
Damn, this is a legit analysis that I could follow. I was wondering why while the incel premise was so intuitive, their philosophies so wildly diverged from mine.
Just discovered you today, gotta say, I love your voice and videos!! <3 Keep being fierce!
Hey, Incel (or rather nearcel) here, I stumbled across your video and (admittedly) started watching to point out how flawed your understanding of incels is, but to my surprise this is actually a very well researched video. The blackpill is not a philosophy that you're proud of (at least I'm not) so, although you did get some details wrong, the gist of what you're saying is rather spot on. I was especially taken with your TTTT analogy, as a heterosexual cis-male this is obviously not my corner of the internet and it was interesting to learn that there are actually parallels. As a matter of fact I've always quite valued the position of MtF Transpeople for their unique look into the dating market and I very much appreciated your concession that it's probably better to have a barrage of dicks at your disposal, even if it's bad dick, than a complete lack of radio silence. I would have wished for a few more actual arguments (most of your points were just unspoken ridicule, which I guess is deserved but does not contribute to the discussion) but as a video of information this is actually quite valueable.   I do however, very much, disagree with what you're saying at 30:25 : There are large, large parts of the blackpill that are complete nonsense (how could they not be when it's a bunch of angry autists egging each other on, to say something even more offensive than the guy before that) but there are some core aspects (mostly of the ones that are inherited from TRP) which can not be dismissed without evidence as you are doing. I could be throwing studies like this one ( https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC5519305/ ) at you, but I don't actually want to argue these points, the reason for this comment is another:   During your research, have you ever wondered - Why has this escalated so much the last few years? I remember back in 2012, when I was frequenting Reddit's /r/foreveralone shit wasn't nearly as hostile.  I would argue the reason for this change is the complete lack of understanding that ~90%+ of people, especially women have for Incels. Just how I will never truly understand what it's like to live with gender dysphoria, I don't think anyone who hasn't been through it, can never understand what it's like being an incel. ( this comes close: https://www.reddit.com/r/ForeverAlone/comments/1achza/friend_wrote_this_about_being_foreveralone/ ). I would consider myself both a stoic and a sceptic so falling into hyperemotional dogmatist world-views isn't exactly my kind of thing but the blackpill really got to me. It's the only place where I won't be ridiculed, patronized or antagonized for my life's experience of complete failure, romantically. It's the only place where I'm not either told that I'm exaggerating and that "the right one is just around the corner", I just need to "be myself".   I'll be honest, when a feminist tells me about my male privilege and how I should recognize that her life is so much harder than mine, or when I'm told that I just hate women too much and that's why I can't find a girlfriend (I considered myself a feminist for years) I get angry. Black bile bubbling through my veins kind of angry. Does that justify violence? No, obviously not. But I'll be damned if I don't understand why people turn to it.   Anyways, thanks for the video. Reading the comments, I doubt that a lot of thinking is being done as a consequence of this video but you got your facts straight and I am grateful for that. Take care.  Had a good laugh at "volcel if you wouldn't" btw :-p
This was going great anyway but the ocean comment made  this the best video I've seen in ages
I came to laugh about incels but I’ve come to realize yeah we all have our demons. We all hide our insecurities in toxic ways. You have a new sub from me ✨
TYRONE! HOLY SHIT! ALL I CAN THINK OF ARE THE CHAPPELLE SHOW SKITS OF THE CRACK ADDICT TYRONE XDDDDDD
Revelatory
Those gosh darn F E M O I D S
Former Incel here. Realized what was wrong with my ideology, and I'm working to change  myself to a cute trap! Mostly because I'm bored, I have a small...oh this isn't incel.me...oh well. I'm fat. I'm over 300 pounds, and I want to shrink down to...well I want because I realized that I don't even know what I want.
okay, this was hilarious, scary, interesting, humbling, and honestly therapeutic all at the same time. you just earned a new subscriber.
This is the first time I ever hit subscribe on the first view on someone’s vid
those forums, especially when you got to the part about the selfies, remind me a lot of pro-anna forums.
I'm trying to listen but I'm getting mad and a brain tumor
ew wtf roasties are roast potatoes edit: lmao i've been given dating advice to go for people uglier than me so that they won't cheat before
This video showed up in my feed and had to sub after, oh 5 minutes. Well made essay and hope the rest of the channel follows suit.
I discovered your video today and I'm so glad I did!
22:21 come thru ASMR
your voice is so soothing!
this channel is THE shit
OLLY  I LOVE YOU
damn.... the og shares my name
28:22 i just saw Internet Comment Etiquette break character and do that too, @ https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oith4UrGeC4&t=6m57s.
All incel points are truth
Another video hating on men, feminists truly are heartless scum.
So it's impossible to get laid because your skeleton is the wrong shape....that's funny...had me giggling that one..
"sorry... Bread Scientist" lel
I like Jordan Peterson to listen to. Thankfully I'm not an incel
I'm so sorry you had to dive into those waters for us. You are a champion.
Babe, that face is 100% feminine. Especially those dang cheek bones.
This woman really likes the ocean :v
marry me natalie
I'm gay and in my early days I experienced radio silence. Didn't have the luxury of hating my own gender.
Looking back, I'm really glad I had no idea what Reddit or 4 chan was in highschool. I would have probably been lumped with that group.
Haha it sounds like an advert in the beginning.
not about the creepy as fuck topic, but you look super hot
WH Y   A RE   YOU   SO  GR AND  <3
First video and now one of my new favorite channels.
TBH - major tingles
Literally never seen a video of yours. Then you mention being trans and I was like "Oh I just thought you were a heavy smoker" Legit didn't realize. Either way you be you. There is no right way to be a man or woman. I know you already know all this, but I figured I would say it anyway.
It's like sexual Marxism
why is this on my recommended...
I just found you and I love you. 💜
This is the first video I've seen from you and OHMYGOD this is pure art. This is gold. This is logic. It is PERFECT???!!!!
Wow :O There’s so many similarities with other internet groups of people that have had a tough time. I empathise :( Wish I could just give them a hug 🧜‍♀️❤️
Wow this was a really nuanced and interesting look at a couple of different cultures that developed over the internet.
FYI the "110 pounds of recreational equipment" quote is either misattributed or made up
I see a second of you and I subscribe. Your amazing with the way you explains! OMG
Brilliant video and really well done with the point counter point. Thanks so much.
You. Are. Amazing!
I mentioned it on another comment, but I wanna express directly how important this kind of video is. If it hadn't been for some supportive friends, and kind people online I could've definitely fallen into the incel mindset. For years I was really down on myself because of being picked on for being skinny, and set back in life by my upbringing in fundamentalist Christianity. That bitterness also started to get into my outlook on the world before I actually realized where my issues were coming from, started taking steps to not be so miserable, and got some support from kind people. I'm beyond lucky that I found those helpful, caring people before I started hating others for my setbacks. Praise holy Lucifer for that.  So, from a near miserable incel, I just wanna say thanks contra. Thank you, and all the compassionate people who show folks that there is hope, and people who care about your well-being.
Whew... I gotta say, I was really uncertain what I was getting into when I clicked this video. Normally I try to avoid anything even mentioning "incels", because... god, it seems like anyone even using that word one way or the other is just trying to throw fuel on a ridiculous dumpster fire of drama. But after days of it showing up in my recommendations, I decided to give it a watch... and I'm glad I did.  This is such an informative, well-spoken video. You discussed a lot of distasteful things without really talking down about them, had some great humor throughout, and the underlying music selection was a great addition. I guess the youtube algorithm must be getting pretty good, because this is exactly the kind of quality I want to see.  In short, thank you for what you're doing! You're fantastic, and I'll definitely be checking out the rest of your content.
lol! That anatomy ASMR. I never saw that episode of Bones.
"At least these pricks care enough about my pussy to be an asshole about my dick"  This belongs on a plaque somewhere.
19:04 Oh god I would smash that like a city in a superhero movie 👌🍆
wow this is on point! first time watcher , and life long subscriber!!
Omg did not know about incels of color.
This is the first time I've watched any of your videos and IT'S THE FUNNIEST SHIT EVER THANK YOU
Congrats on the transition. You look great
Did he just talk shit about my job?...fuck did bread ever do to you, pube lord
Hate bait?
feeeeeeeewwwmooiiwwdssszzz
Theres a line between being Sexistic or being charming and charismatic...         It's called "Jawline"
*"that's a lot of Boltamorian men swiped right on a tran"*  Subbed
oh my god, i think i’m in love.
It reminds me of a even more fucked up pro-ana thing.. which is surprising because pro-ana gets baaad. This is crazy..
incels are pretty gross not gonna lie
I've never laughed this hard in my whole tranny fuck life <3
I'm going through the gay version of this
God damn this was one of the best youtube-videos I've ever seen. Quality stuff, and you have a really nice voice!
Must be difficult to be around Baltimore and have to deal with being called hon, considering how common it is as a neutral thing to call people around those parts.
What ever you say, *man*
Can I just say, I love your humor and you have become one of my favorite humans on youtube.
Astute, witty,  insightful, informative. Thanks for your hard work
I really do believe that everyone needs to feel special in some way. And if you're utterly convinced that you're totally un-special, I suppose it makes a twisted kind of logic to make THAT the thing that makes you special after all.
you and john maclean would get along very well in my opinion
Men who have low IQs & watch sports don't necessarily have shitty personalities. These incels are so twisted in the way they think about the world.
Wow this video has been in my recommendations for the longest time. Now that I've finally watched it I'm incredibly glad I did. Keep up the great work!
unobtainium...lol
I wanna fuck the ocean.
I had never seen your videos before and had no idea who you are. The first 13 minutes of the video felt very uncomfortable, kind of seemed like this video would be just trying to get views by bashing on this tragic phenomenon. I'm happy I didn't stop watching the video.  After the 13 minute mark you started to make really good remarks about the incels as a phenomenon and as a community.  Thank you.
Who the fuck actually actually talks about Paris Hilton anymore?
lol why not get a trap bf?
“At least these pricks care enough about my pussy to be an asshole about my dick”  That... was very funny 😆  thank you indeed for your sympathy toward incels. Not saying they all deserve it but it is sad.   I actually feel more sympathy for the good girls that are getting radio silence.    Speaking as a man, I say that men are now reaping what we’ve sewed.  MEN WERE THE 1st ONES TO RETREAT INTO PORN AND VIDEOGAMES  Ps If I may be so bold, I don’t have any Tran friends or anything. familiarity breeds acceptance and you warmed up to me, you are cool smart and funny. So thanks again 😊
The sea is eroticism incaranate for realsies.
YOU LOOK SO BEAUTIFUL AAAAAAAAA
Nah dude red pill is more widespread because you can get a red pill on anything but the black pill is unique for incels you need to hang out on /pol/ more
I feel like I am unworthy to experience your A E S T H E T I Q U E.
........ i was born a female and you're still prettier than me.......
When I found that subreddit, it was like I hit the sexist ground zero. Like this is it. This was looking into the entry point of all the murder-rapists in the modern world. I was spooked.
That opening yucked me out so bad
Jeez already learned a lot of new words in the first 4 minutes of this video. Anyway cool essay thanks for posting
Everything about this video essay is good. Relatable, empathic, digestable amount of academicity. A warm and comfortable place in a shitstorm of hate and darkness. Probably going to binge-watch your channel in the near future.
I've never even heard of this community and this mindset of descent into hopelessness and the idea of language affecting how you view the world struck uncomfortably home. I think I needed this video as a warning and, for that, I can only say thank you.
look at this greasy queer
Wow. This video really opened my eyes. Thank you.
I came here just for "Chads of Color" and the ASMR LOL
This video is amazing. Thank you!
I am so glad i am over analytical person by Nature because everything I just heard is exactly why i have a long list of guys i had to turn down.  Sadly these incel traits are hella commen in the type of guys I find attractive (im still looking for the nerd of my dreams 😭) and in my horrendously small circle (if you count 3) of male friends.
I've never donated money or became a patron to a YouTuber until now, this is the kind of effort and skill that deserves people's money! Your perspective and approach is just perfect 🌼🕊️
I love this!? How did it take me so long to find this!?
this was super interesting to me, the way you talked about their community and digital self harm reminds me of the pro-anorexia sites i was often part of when i was a young anorexic. a lot of times i'll still seek out those sites to hurt myself, compare myself to the pictures of underweight girls and disparage myself for having 'let myself go' by not completely letting my illness control me anymore.  incel and mgtow forums seem like the male counterpart of pro-ana. women with low self esteem fixate on being 'too fat and ugly' due to women's worth being put on weight and appearance, and seek out forums dedicated to becoming thinner and hating their bodies. men with low self esteem fixate on 'women don't like me and i can't get laid' due to men's worth being put on sex and manliness, and seek out forums dedicated to unhealthily fixating on 'fuckability'. women and men with mental health problems and/or low self esteem are pushed toward different fixations and forms of self harm. furthermore, due to socialization, women's anger is more often directed inward ("I am so fat and ugly. I should starve/throw up.") and men's is directed outward ("Fuck these nasty femoid roasties for not having sex with me!") (Obviously, these are not accurate all the time, just generalizations about these two groups.)
This was the wrong video to watch at Starbucks. I feel very uncomfortable.    Good vid though 👌🏼
I call everyone hon but I live in Baltimore 😬
Incels are hysterical, but you're almost worse.
literally had you not said that you were trans i never would have been able to tell.
Bitterness is a sad thing.  It's so easy to understand why these men feel dejected yet it feels wrong to sympathize with someone who's developed such a bitter attitude.  On the other hand, I feel guilty about my instinctive disgust toward these men because I can understand the misfortune that set them down this path.  But there is little anyone can do.  Once someone's despair has imploded into a black hole it's a no-win situation for everyone.
You are so amazing and I am so happy I discovered this channel!!!
Let me guess, that guy only bakes baguettes?
"At least these pricks care about my pussy to be an asshole about my dick"  10/10 best quote I've heard all month, subbed
loved this so much omg and im away to think about the ocean alone in bed for half an hour
https://youtu.be/DpCsV-0iigk
If anyone doesn't understand that a woman can be born into a man's body just explain to them the inherent eroticism of the sea, the clap of thunder! The rustling of the leaves... I am a man born in a man's body and would never have been able to see or understand things so feminine, so true. And no matter how much I feel I understand I would never have discovered it until true feminine energy discribed it to me. How could anyone who truly wasn't a woman through and though not only communicate these things but FEEL them. And it is the pure worldly eroticism as proven through the feminine form that us men can understand it. It takes a thing of beauty to truly understand beauty and only then can we gruff manly men see it, feel it... Taste it.. And yet even still, it takes true feminity to see it in us... and she does... Even in our most naked, ugly state. Thank you contrapoints for opening my eyes, a man's eyes to the eroticism of nature. And of course a sub and bell ;)
ive noticed that hate groups, the right, incels tend to blame their problems on others, instead of stating what "I" or "we" want... I want a hug, (how can I achieve such affectionate squeezes).
I'm gonna have your voice in 10 years from too much diet coke, and have the same decor        I'm fine with that 👌
You earned my subscription with this video. Thank you for having a voice and allowing it to be heard.
> Incels are just men who can't get laid > I don't want to mock incels  Well, yeah, that's just because your definition of incel doesn't imply that.  this isn't a point against you, but it's really annoying how we use terms differently and talk past each other
It's honestly hard to get through the first couple of sentences of the Red Pill theory (or the source I found on it) without constantly checking that it is in fact a serious opinion that people have and not satire. (Which is terrible bc I don't want to be able to brush off the reality of people actually believing this stuff). But at the same time? It's kind of hard not to laugh.
I just noticed that the video of the sea is the same one ContraPoints used in the first Golden One video
Evolutionarily, the uneven ratio of all women being attracted to a small group of men makes sense because men can spread more dna quicker than women since they don’t need to carry children. If there were 10 men and one woman, that’s only room for one child in the frame of nine months, but one man and ten women could produce 10 babies, hypothetically. (This is all hypothetical) there’s no mass scheme to single out ugly dudes, it’s just in the best interest of the gene pool :,)
You totally look and sound like Pooya Mohseni
Is that PhilosophyTube? That's fucking PhilosophyTube, isn't it?
You. are. hilarious!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! I love you.
Wow, these woods are depressing, dark and deep. Worst thing is I kind of feel like had things gone a little differently I might have ended up on these forums. Man, I'm glad that I never stumbled onto one of those chat rooms.
The background music is so on point at all times - it's unnervingly appropriate
your content is incredible, i’m so glad i happened upon you!!
I like you.   I think another part to it how much everyone thinks about sex and having a partner. The obsession is what fuels the spiral. There's the old saying about how you tend to meet your significant other when you're not looking. (and how "desperate" is never attractive).   Also, porn. The internet doesn't have to be about reinforcing negative mental states. The internet has always existed for porn.
HA! Watching the latest episode of SVU and before it's hit the opening credits, I'm bouncing up and down like a maniac going "Incels, Incels, I KNOW THIS CHAD AND STACY SHIT, NATALIE TAUGHT ME MOTHERFUCKERS!!!! uh.... I mean, the beautiful and unapproachable gay-chum-on-par-with-Gillian Anderson, Mariska Hargitay - I love you, don't think I'm weird, I didn't mean to call you anything other than goddess." O.O
nice video.
Nerdy incels are the male version of SJW’s. Holy fuck.
I haven't seen your channel since that Blaire White debate thing and I had kind of a bias against you then, but watching this video now you're actually really funny and intelligent. Also super beautiful wowww haha~~
I really enjoyed the 4th base. I am going to be writing my thesis on incels, and specifically about trying to treat them when they have dissociative views of themselves.
So when is your first asmr video ;) https://youtu.be/fD2briZ6fB0?t=1342
Alas, poor Yorick
Thank you for this video
are you trans?
24:48 that's gotta be tough on trans people in Baltimore
Thinking that incels and MGTOW are at all compatible. Totally taking this video seriously after that little piece of stupidity
Heh, ok. Not gonna lie those last few seconds there felt really nice. got me pretty hot n bothered under the collar 💓 33:45
I can tell we would disagree on a lot of political issues, but this video was amazing. Hating INCELS is what brings all types of people together.
I have a friend whose a Butch with autism, she's very function just akward as shit, but still gets hella pussy cause she's a lovable nerd and has a very interesting sense of style , so if incels just weren't mean, and took care of themselves they could too.
“I’m not bisexual, I’m an intellectual” -Bizarre
Girl, your lighting schemes are on point.
Becky in the streets. Stacy in the sheets.  Ya feel me?
I went back to this to cite something for a paper, but I forgot she eats a corndog in this one too. damn it, Natalie, stop making me hungry
This is brilliant
I want to empathize so much. I used to be a (less radical) "incel" of sorts when I was younger. I get it. And, though I'm not a scientist by any stretch of the imagination, I feel it has to be some sort of mental disorder, probably brought on by a life of personal hardship whether perceived or actual....  It's just very hard. Like how do we help? It really is tragic. Also "they" (I don't want to blanket "them" but...) genuinely usually have a very shitty attitude towards themselves or others and they have a very ugly vocabulary or mannerisms that make them incredibly stand-offish or unapproachable... but everyone in life deserves happiness. I want "them" to have happiness. It's very sad if nothing else.  Anyway, YOU LOOK FUCKING GORGEOUS, GOOD ON YOU! I hope you are happy as well, you seem it, and you are (as far as I can tell from this video) a wonderful individual. Go girl!
They value female sexuality, just not the gate keeper to it, that being the person attached to it. Its sort of like a woman, someone who values a mans wealth, but the gate keeper, the person attached to it.
Youtube has been recommending me this for a while and my attention span hardly can bear 30+ minutes of content, but boy am I glad I finally watched it. The information, the script, the cinematography, I'm like... This is absolutely brilliant!
Even Olly's sensuous voice could not save the stupidity of that braincels post, oof.
This is a really great video. It's the second ContraPoints video i have seen, only found the channel really recently, its a great channel. Super interesting and really well made. <3 <3
i love you omg
This is so great
i dont want this to sound offensive... maybe its just cuz im a trap, aka twink in a skirt, but i could instantly tell you were trans... and damn you are pretty... legit jealous... but really just seeing you is an inspiration to me to transition... plus you are pretty funny and i like your style~ +1 sub
I am an Incel but not one that identifies as one. I am just a man that lives in involuntary celibacy. I have not read incel forums or anything alike. I would like to have a girlfriend but as someone on the spectrum (even though I am very high functional) I do not see much hope. I have a social exhausting problem and while I know how to navigate social structures I simply get exhausted by being with people.  In hindsight, I just think I have had bad luck. I have been around many girls in life (in school, university, clubs and jobs) but because of an objective worldview, I have often offended girls by not playing the social game correctly. during my late teenage years, I was in a very low place and got diagnosed with mild depression and isolated for many years. Now I am in a dangerous age to date, in my 30. I do not want kids nor think I can take care of someone else's kids but many women my age either want a family quickly or already have kids. I have heard all the tips and tricks but as I am a rather thinking man and not especially driven by emotion I often see myself planing and manipulating people and I do not want to be a psychopath. I do not want to execute a plan to get a girl to love me by playing the social game correctly as that also means that I teach her a version of me that is not the truth.  I have been trying to date online but the experience you describe here is the one I have got. It is exhausting to try and reach people and only get radio silence in return. I have had thought of "state-funded girlfriends" etc but the thing is that I do not see myself as the primary victim. While I do would benefit from this I am very well aware this is not a realistic option. In reality, though the governments of the most western world need to realise the issue people have with connecting with each other today. There is a reason why Korea and Japan have such problems with birth rates and single households and why extremism such as incel and feminist communities grow. People are hating each other and divide is created between such a fundamental biological state as gender. The world truly needs more love than hate but no one is doing anything against this on a societal level. Being an activist only breeds hate.
Great work, keep it up.
And they wonder why they cant get it in
This is the first video of yours I ever came across and after watching it I totally binge watched your entire channel. I love what you do and how you form your arguments.
Excellent analysis.
This has been showing up in my recommended vids for a while and I avoided it bc I thought it was going to be one of those, "Hey girls, maybe if you just fucked dudes who hate you and treat you like garbage you wouldn't be getting so murdered all the time, checkmate feminists!" Maybe I confused your username with someone else? Idk. But I'm glad I finally watched it. Imma subscribe.
Smallpeniscel
oh my god this was so good i am compelled to pay you
This is terrific
I know I’m an average looking dude, and I know I’ve a lot of people interested in me. But being sad, lonely and isolated is everything I knew up to this point. I can’t accept the idea of being actually happy. It’s so repugnant to me. I love you and I love this video and I truly thank you for all this insight but I honestly believe if I ever stop being in this incel-like state I will kill myself. My whole identity revolves around being fat and ugly and unattractive and trust me, I get reminded of that very often by others I’m interested in. Whenever I get compliments from loved ones I think that they’re just trying to make me feel better about myself, and I hate this feeling of sympathy. Whenever someone calls me sexy or beautiful online I think that my pictures are deceiving and that they’d probably laugh at me if we ever go out on a date or something. I no longer know if these feelings are a reality or not and I honestly don’t know which outcome is worse; if they are true or not. I’m a bisexual man (I think) I have a lot of male and female friends and love interests and I feel no destain towards them because I always go through the thought of “I’m a very ugly person, I wouldn’t wanna date me, why’d I allow someone else to?”.   I’ve never joined an incel community ever and I always read through their subreddit with disgust because of how evil they seem. I don’t think I’m an evil person, I’m just sad and I’ve personally enveloped myself in a culture that affirms that worldview.
Oh, hey, I live right outside of Baltimore!  First time viewer, loved it, subscribed.
Great video. By the way, I love the cthulhu-esque way the letters are read!
Great video. THAT ENDING. Sub.
I always thought my name meant something different
How have I never seen you before!! Looking forward to getting thru all your videos❤️
Is this girl trans?
I have watched many (far too many) videos on incels, but this by far the best one
Just stumbled across this video. Thanks for your well thought out video and hard work on this topic! It's tough to balance being both informative and funny. Cheers!
My goodness... The incelverse is simultaneously hilarious and sad... The incels I have seen online and in real life, all have the same problem: they are desperate misogynistic cunts. It's not about height, wealth or looks. People are usually attracted to people similar to them. I don't want to date some fitness obsessed, career and money hungry pretty boy, because I am not like that. Maybe try to look at women as other PEOPLE who you might share interests with and asset yourself. Be nice, show what you want, go for people you have stuff in common with...
Wait, she's trans??
This is a really good video
4:21  >"trans" implying that anatomy is science and not metaphysics lol rich
Goodness, you could form a lot of comparisons with the 'communities' promoting disordered eating. I'm thinking mainly of 'meanspo' (where one posts a picture of one's body and ask others to make extremely negative comments akin to bullying for 'inspiration' and motivation to continue on this self-destructive path. Instead of the emaciated body, the ideal is a larger skull or more feminine features, etc.
Geography for nations in Neorealist Geostrategy is like how bone structure is regarded by incels.
The Great British Bread Science Fair
Im new to this topic and i feel like your'e the supreme fountain of information on this. Also i love how you eroticize bodies of water. And jesus please let it be known that though i wish i was bi i am sapiosexual and god damn you are attactive. (Sent in good faith)
Video on Thots when?
The thing about getting pleasure and getting a rush from thinking awful shit about yourself is so true. I think about that so much. It's a real terrible positive reinforcement for self-loathing.
Damn, the hook was so intiguing that even as i was repulsed i kept watching. Kudos.
The idea that some women want to respond to this in a mom-like way tears me a up a little. Bless you and anyone who reacts to hate with love. Way way WAY beyond the call of duty, I would not (consciously) expect this from anyone.
As someone living with depression, "catastrophising" is a pretty profound word/concept. Thanks ContraPoints!
The man who doesn't get laid, have fewer headaches!
This isn't real. These people can't be real. I refuse to believe
Suck my Kiss by the chilli peppers turned me into a guitarist. sexual energy churns out musicians.
Sooo.... Pansexual?
hmm  i gotta say i do not really like the idea of trans people as id consider myself pretty conservative.  But you seem rather level headed, you improve my opinion of the trans community.
This is the third video of yours that I've watched today. I'm so glad you got out of academia to make great and informative videos. :)
Hi ContraPoints.  I truly enjoyed your video and, like you said during your opening, I'm so sorry but . . . I had no idea that you're trans!  You say that you worry about appearing masculine, which is what prompted me to comment- I don't see it.  Granted, this is coming from a gay man, so perhaps I'm biased, but you're beautiful.  Anyway, I found myself agreeing with everything (at least up until this point, 22:19 where I'm at now) you said.  I found your channel through the comments section of Philosophy Tube, which I tend to heavily disagree with but watch because I worry about my own echo chamber.  Your channel is a nice step outside of the bubble.  Thanks.
I wish I could go back and tell my teenage self, "Those romantic movies are painting a very bad example for you to follow.  You're not going to get anywhere with stalker-ish devotion, and you don't need to put with people who belittle you in the name of it.  You want a woman to be interested in you?  Get a steady job!  They really don't care that much what you look like.  They just aren't going to make out with you in your mother's basement."
Hey, you forgot to include the other option these men have at sexual activity: claim to be transgender, transition into being a trans woman, claim to be a "lesbian" now that you're a "woman" and bully women into sleeping with you by saying they're bigots if they don't and equating not being attracted to you due to your lack of actual female status as being a "vagina fetishist"  Don't forget this option.
Great video, just got yourself a new subscriber
I have a friend that feels the same but since we are not in usa we dont have these kinds of toxic-communities. My friend has this mega ego issiues and when I point it out he rages. I mean we had arranged a date for him with a MODEL and he said she was beneth him. A week later he was back crying he was un-fuckable. Long story short these people have a skewed view of their selfvalue. (I dont know if it is bad but, if u didnt say you were trans-gender I wouldnt have picked it up, and I live in the trans capital of turkey)
Huh, I didn't even realize the Orwellian etymology of incel. He talked about that a bunch in 1984. I should reread that book, based on our current sociopolitical climate
I just discovered your videos and it's just magnificent! It's so interensting and well researched! And the lights and scnery are great! i love it! (Sorry if my english is not perfect, i'm from France and don't speak very fluently english).
This is the first video I saw of you, and I legit didn't think you were trans until you mentioned it. I think you look bomb.
Heh, Phrenology jokes. Also, in general, 34 minutes well spent having someone hold my hand looking back at my life 7 years ago,
Adore your videos!!!  <3
the manosphere exists because rock n roll is dead  my god, i think that's it
Society force men to have sex with women but they force women to not have sex and be virgins, it's almost like society's only purpose is to make itself unhappy
No matter how much you say it ContraPoints, im not gonna fuck the ocean.
Don't Incels actually hate RedPillers?
Ive never seen one of your videos before.... But I honest to goodness thought you were a woman. Your bone structure reminds me of Winona Ryder in the Edward scissorhands era. Like....totally enviable and pretty. I'm female but born with facial deformities. You have a face I would go get surgery to look like.
Is it really a big surprise that men that want to have an intimate relationship and are unable to do so would be bitter? It's the old line of thinking that is commonly thought to differentiate the idea of coupling in the minds of men and women: if a man is rejected he wonders what is wrong with the object of his desire versus when a woman is rejected she wonders what is wrong with her. This may or may not be true but it's something I've heard from childhood.
Wow, this guy did an amazing impression of a woman, especially after hearing how masculine his regular voice is in the intro.
take it from a Decel. i would Excel for an Accel if ! found a cell worth not exing
this was so well done. I had only heard of the incel movement in a passing, NPR kinda way. Thank you for doing the disgusting 4Chan mining so we don't have to. Also, I know its not right, but I actually did laugh out loud at some of the more ridiculous bigotry in the movement. This movement, like many other dark sides of humanity, has been given fertile ground to grow in the isolation of the internet and social media. Ironically, these communication modes that can enable us to be more connected also can make us more isolated in our own bubbles (yeah yeah, I know, covered ground), and without said isolation, such movements fail to flourish.  Anyway, well done!
that ending was so beautiful
As troubling as the comments coming from the likes of /braincels and /r9k/ are, I do think a lot of what's being said there is venting. It's important to realise that, even the cruel comments aimed at others that only identify and maximise their problem areas, these kinds of comments have been cemented in internet history, though the feelings around them will change -- I'm sure a lot of incels and the like would look back on the stuff that used to say online and cringe.   That's why I don't endorse these kinds of communities being shut down because venting isn't such a bad thing -- they're full of overdramatic, hyperbolic nasty comments, though it's hard to imagine that the young angry men that scribed such nasty comments will still be of such hateful opinions when they're older.
My father gave me a good tip: Try not to be an asshole. My wife gave me a better tip: Try not to be a dick. Jim Jefferies gave me the best tip: Try not to be a cunt. Incels are assholes, dicks and cunts. That's why they cant get laid.
im a cis het mormon guy and will say you make a gorgeous woman. you opened up and helped me understand incels and t issues. great video!
I didn't even realize you were trans until you said so. You look great. And if I didn't mean it, I'd have just not commented on it.
The bleeps fucking killed me for some reason.
I was so pissed this video kept popping up as recommended. But then I clicked on it and OMG YOU ARE MY FAVORITE. You look amazing, this video is fascinating, and your commentary is gold. Subscribed forever.
I was not expecting this vid to go where it did and I'm very happy it went there. Just about every other vid I see on incels is basically just bashing them which basically just makes them hunker down on their position even more. That's not how you help people like that.
8:54 - Suddenly, Red.
Honestly, I used to think I was hideous, and it wasn't without reason either. I was bullied and called ugly and all that jazz when I was a kid, and I literally thought it would be impossible for me to find a partner in the future. I was really insecure. For unrelated reasons (physical illness and long medical treatments) made me just not care what other people thought and I didn't care that I didn't have any friends - my family was enough company I needed during that time, because I couldn't mentally handle anything outside that. This sort of got me out of the "insecurity bubble" and loe and behold, I was just a regular guy that held myself back due to childhood trauma. Most people aren't so physically unattractive that it's impossible for them to find a loving partner, however, plenty of people have a personality that makes them really unattractive, and it seems that many of these incels have just that problem. What regular woman is going to love a guy that says they hate women?
Gotta say you really hit the nail on the head with this video, and you... Sorry, it just started raining outside and I... oh god... hnnngh...
Nice video, you approached it with more neutrality and empathy than what anyone would expect on a video about incels. I mean, they're assholes, but like a lot of people they're assholes because it's easier to be that than claw the way out of the pit they're in. And they really are in a pit - they clearly have some sort of body dysmorphia (wrist size? irrational), and whenever they talk about how lonely they feel, even if they're angry and dickish and evil when they do, the response is ridicule and further isolation. I tried looking at r/incels after watching, but it was shut down. I tried looking at r/braincells but they were "quarantined" and I had to click through warning messages more than 4 times to get to the top posts. There's even a subreddit dedicated to making fun of them. It's all they're own doing, yeah, but just slamming them fuels their worldview.  What's especially peculiar to me is that they submit to this eugenics mindset, but instead of placing themselves at the top like most people who believe in it do, they place themselves at the bottom. It's an excuse for them not to improve themselves, but it's a weird one I've never seen before.  They're the cause of their own misery, but that doesn't stop me from feeling the way they feel a little bit. Most people feel like they can't connect to others at some point in their lives, and incels think that that point is forever. It must be hell, no wonder they distance themselves from everyone and put up the "defenses" you talked about.  Thanks for the insight, you were right about having a perspective that lets you see things in a different lens. Also, the video reminded me to get a pink "ouch!" tank top sometime.
This is absolutely amazing! Well researched but presented in a nonchalant way. It really works.
The lowest concept of humanity is an identity tied to reproduction.
About words, doesn't language and vocabulary program the mind?
I ascribe to the D.E.N.N.I.S. system.
Great video. Impressive descriptions, definitions, and research. Even more impressive is how you held that wine glass for 40 minutes without spilling or dropping it. :)
So... this is the first video of yours that I watched, and I didn't know until you said so that you're trans. I just thought you look remarkably like a slightly longer-faced Winona Ryder. On topic, you are pretty scarily intelligent.
I love that you soft came out about trans. I think your class and your aura is super super impressive and I love it. Anyways, I'm subscribing now not because your trans, but your entire aesthetic is gorgeous.
I don't like the way the Ocean looks at me anymore...
oh noooo. "Drugcel, heightcel and mentalcel", the guy whom I've dedicated near all of my affection is a 5'5 alcoholic with severe paranoia. Oops lol
Who mentally measures the heads of people they see around? I never even considered skull size in terms of gender cues, and it's nearly impossible to notice anyway because if a woman has a big head people will think it's padded by her hair. Weird thing to fixate on. (Also you are gorgeous and you do look like a woman.)
hi! this was the first video of yours that i watched and I just wanted to tell you that i 100% thought you were born as a woman, skull size and all
The lighting, setup and outfits in this video are stunning! Really cool
This vid is so calm yet I kept thinking "this is just wild". Like...the sea I guess? How didn't I know about this channel?!
Omg I should have honestly discovered this channel sooner. I've been in my lowest point in these past few days and the 4th base is relatable, whether you're an incel or not. You're beautiful btw <3
A Very informative video, fawless delivery. Subscribed :)
I'm so glad I never got that deep into 4chan.  I've got some body stuff I'm dealing with (internalised Fatphobia) but on my good days I can still look at my cinnamon roll reflection and be happy.  but before I figured trans shit out damn if I wasn't borderline Incel in my thinking.  fuck did that ever take a lot of deprogramming.  frequent and vigorous sex may have had something to do with the deprogramming...
great video, expert presentation, organization and fantastic personality. totally on board with the ocean stuff 10/10
i would die for you
i've been worried about becoming an incel but this video has helped alot      i have trouble with bones aswell
This is a fantastic and super educational video. Thank you so much for making this you are a beautiful powerful witch and I love you.
You're beautiful and you have a really great voice also (sorry I'm tired and cannot think of a more descriptive adjective). Just thought I'd throw that out there :)
Honest question.  How the fuck is Jordan Peterson sexist?
I feel oddly violated by the erotic reading at the beginning. Help. M Y   E A R S
You don't look like a man
Your analysis of the incel community is so thorough and your explanation is so easy to understand. I love listening to you talk and I look forward to watching more of your videos~
I didn’t get the Problematic thing so I didn’t won the discourse, can someone explain pleaseeeee
What is beauty, if nothing is peculiar in its proportion?
Can everyone just stop and appreciate how much art went into this video? I sure will do. ME: gives a glance of an absolute awe*
17:35 if it makes you feel better, i used to be a woman who dates women and now i'm a man who dates men.  i'd say your situation is far less unusual and definitely allowed (but you probably already knew that).
Anyone else in the mood to go skinny dipping on a rainy day now?
You're so great. Also, I can never look at the sea the same way again.
EWWWWW. A fucken Crowder Ad.
Really well done. Your work is humorous while maintaining a more objective look at these crazy social circles.
thought i was straight until i saw astolfo. heard philosophytube reading out erotica now i know i ain''t.
I seriously want to see an incel react to this
Incels?   I have a new name for them. F U C K I N '  L O S E R S
One of your best vids to date!
17:50    YES  Get in the sea girl
You look like a man.
This was brilliant!  How am I just now finding this channel?
Is nobody talking about how the person talking is a trans?
I'm sorry as an indian guy I cracked up when i heard the word "chadpreet". the creativity lawl.
This is the first video I've seen by this channel, and idk if it's bad or not, but I genuinely laughed at some points. And personally speaking as a self assured lesbian, I think you are very gorgeous. :)
Incels should go trans
as a dude struggling with being alone too much that bit about online dating was really comforting
Sweetheart, you are fucking gorgeous...your bone structure is waaay more feminine than most women I see, including myself, but you do whatever makes you feel who you truly are...good luck ;o)
Co-worker referred me to this video when i asked what an incel is, glad to have watched this, really well done.
I could listen to you forever, can I get your blessing for my healthyy obsession with your vids?
hoooly fucking shit, that's enough internet for me tonight. But not before hitting the 'subscribe' button. This was a deep dive.
Yo this is cool, this video was uploaded on my birthday, however I just now stumbled upon this through the power of YouTube recommendations. Very high video production quality and interesting content and discussion as well, looking forward to more videos. Fuck, I need to get a job so I can throw Patreon money at you and a bunch of other YT creators that I watch.   also I'm Indian and "Chadpreet" is probably the funniest and strangest word I've heard in a while lmaooo
I’m glad I am who I am. And I’m glad I got to watch your video. Have a great week.
I LOVE YOU SO MCUH
um... dont cut it off...
"At least these pricks care enough about my pussy to be an asshole about my dick!" - hahahaha, love it
"Clean your room bucko" lmfaoooooo i lost it at that 😂😂😂
This video is a masterpiece omg
This video is done very well ... Informative. You are just beautiful & so, so funny. I just subbed
This was an insightful, disturbing yet incredibly funny video. Definitely one of my favorite pieces on the topic of incels, if not the best I've seen so far.
Do trans women ever have any problems/confusion with people who use the word "honey"/"hon" as an affectionate term?
OLLY!!!!! <3
the inherent eroticism of the sea... I fucking love you <3
Everything about this video is incredible. Thank you so much!
i`m deeply in love with your channel and your understanding of the human nature. Ps, don´t know if this adds something, but i actually didn´t notice you were trans until i watched videos like this one when it s on topic
which video does Natalie call Jordan Peterson "Professor Study the Blade"? I wanna show it to my english teacher who hates jordan peterson
Well, gee, now I'm going to get hard every time it rains, and since I live in Scotland...
I never met my mom, I wish Contra was my mommy instead.
You're so intelligent, and beautiful... And I love your soundtrack choices ❤❤❤
Like straight males need advice from a confused one! No thanks.... Sorry not sorry!
22.28 ASMRgasm out of nowhere. *pants*
You are a gorgeous goddess, Natalie. And I love your voice. 😄
Brilliant video ContraPoints!!!
How do you feel about a non-transitioning person who was born male but prefers to present mostly feminine traits?
You lost me at "hello boys".    Hit the pause button and scanned the comments.    So you're a dude-girl talking about incels.   Were you an incel, before the operation/s?   This is some weird shit.
This type of mentally ill self-punishment is about control. When you believe it is hopeless, the last act of power you have at your disposal is self-annihilation. No one else can tear you down if you cut yourself off at the knees first. It is a last gasp of non-impotence. It is also a massive defense - if you can force yourself to face the worst, no one else can hurt you as much because you are an expert at hurting yourself. Maybe you can even fix yourself if you unrelentingly focus on the root of your inadequacies, and attack said inadequacies ruthlessly...oops, nope, that last one was too hopeful :P
I'm a woman (who was born female) and I always hated my looks because I figure I look too "mannish" - and one of the things I hate most is my skull! it's too much like my dad's, it's a man's skull, it looks scary, etc. I totally get the self-hatred and despair. I had cosmetic surgery over a few millimetres of bone, too! Cis women do not escape this pain, believe me. It also reminds me of THINSPIRATION sites I used to frequent when I nearly died of anorexia. Self-hatred and body dysmorphia are a terrible mix. It led to suicide attempts. I guess being part black didn't help either.
wow.
honestly tho, you're really pretty for a trans woman
Did I hear Markiplier???
The hottest girl I know has a big head
You know I thought I wouldn't experience it because I didn't have a dick. My b.
I am in love with you!!! My husband will totally understand 💋
This was in my fucking recommended for so damn long, I then decided to click on this video. No regrets fam
Oof imagine not knowing what a woman's skin feels like.
Ok Contra, a pseudo-incel here (they probably wont consider me to be one but i feel like i'm one) you might be a tranny and a faggot and a degenerate but you do bring up some seriously good points especially with how incel culture traps people and how some people are out there simply to get reverse compliments weather they be exaggerated or not.
oh god I can hear the man in his voice
wait you're a man???
This is a very inspirational video. You are inspiring. Thank you! I hope your words get out and heard by many people.
Does the trilby/fedora provide the illusion of a more prominent brow?
Well, no idea Incels were a thing till now, word. Right, lovely video Contra.
You are in error. Incels are nothing to do with the red pill, they take the black pill. Are we saying that an incel is someone who calls themselves one or are we saying that an incel is someone who has not had sex. If we are saying that an Incel is someone who has simply not had sex we can no more mock them than we can a cat for not being a dog...
you fell for the incel meme , they all are just normies larping as incels to get some cheap upvotes
in reactin to 10:00 : interestingly, research has shown that women are in fact more hypergomous than men. well, either women are more demanding of men's looks when it comes to dating than the other way around or women are simply more attratictive than the average man. whichever explanation you like better.
Thanks Contra Imma go fuck the ocean now
“Can we get coffee first?” 😂😂😂😂😂
You got the wrong idea about incels. Some of us arent like that. We just dont want to be bothered. With anyone.
I feel like this extends to the general populace and the term digital self harm could easily be applied to the news cycle. We’re caught in a kind of loop in which we seek the worst of humanity and of our fellow brothers and sisters,, so we can soothe the sting with lolcats, and people who will tell us how it should be, how it could be and how we can be part of righting the ship that always seems to be going astray.
you said "the inherent eroticism of the sea" and I immediately turned into Florence Welch
First time viewer, not a bad video at all, and you have some very good points, and I loved the jab at Peterson, but from what I know of him, he's to incels what Anita Sarkeesian is to #Fauxminists, with about the same proportion of good to absolutely catastrophic advice, encouraging self-loathing and victimhood mentality.  While you put water in your wine regarding the dating marketplace, not doing the same with https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hypergamy felt quite disingenuous. The black pill pill would be far less prevalent without data supporting the red pill, because the red pill is but the entrance to the rabbit hole which can lead to all sorts of things. Some might argue there's a gay/trans pill making people think they might never be loved or even happy without becoming gay or trans, hehe.  On a side note, I find you're quite an attractive person, despite strongly looking like a man in drag to me ;) The broad shoulders gave you away, to get back to bone structure... but posture can change that.
An amazing video. Thank you
"Thank you skull people, for showing me the way"
Why are incels like this?  Because they are shitty, selfish people with a sense of entitlement who don't see others as equals, driving off women from their first interactions and blame perceived faults of their physical being instead of accepting their own shitty behavior and changing it.  Society is telling them "How you behave is not okay" and they can't handle it.
Feminists Yikes
i died at "blackcel, ricecel, currycel"
Your videos are so educational and fun!!!
Fingal's Cave overture, nice choice!
UNDATEABLES: The whole series can be found on YouTube and it is heartwarming af. View ! Love this one! So good!
I now want there the be vncls voluntary celibate for the non ace spectrum people who just feel too lazy to bother dating
The more I watch videos like these, the more I’m glad that I watch them.  They show me that maybe sometimes my mind and my worldview really aren’t above all the horrible things that tend to come from an upbringing as a Caucasian-American, heterosexual, cis-gendered man living in upper middle-class suburbia, with both his parents, four pets, a litany of possessions, a healthy social life, and several hobbies who has never worked a day in his life or gone hungry. And how that is a very bad thing.  These videos teach me that no matter how much perspective I think I have, I can always have more. That I should not ever stop learning how to safely and peacefully coexist with everyone in this world we live in.
Honestly, If you only did bone-structure ASMR videos from here on out, I wouldn't even be that disappointed.
Forgive the incoming testimonial but this video creeped me out so much I couldn't even make it to 9 minutes.  Pun not intended.  At least Fight Club was intended as satire about support groups and self-improvement classes.  These groups sound like purpose-built self-hatred training camps.  Thank God I never found anything like that growing up!  I was celibate until I was 26, and I had never even had a second date with someone before age 23.  Believe it or not, the issue was *my own lack of confidence.*  I met my wife about a month before my 23rd birthday and we're still together 12 years later.  So far I've only had 2 sexual partners and I intend to keep it that way because I want to *_stay_* married.  The best part is, When we first met, I had this lame idea to play it cool and come back for her phone number the next day.  I took one step out of the store she was working in, realized how stupid I was and went straight back in.  Turned out, that was her last day working there.    *TO SUCCEED, YOU HAVE TO BE WILLING TO FAIL THOUSANDS OF TIMES FIRST!* So put on a clean shirt, wash your face, and start learning how to talk to strangers.
How is Jordan Peterson sexist?
I just stumbled across your channel, best find in a long time
Anybody else hear the first thing about the internet's Soviet naming convention, and spent like 5 minutes thinking about how right she was.
Wow, well Incels are not wrong on some of their arguments. As women tend to have men that are orbiters. It has been proven over time with asking women what they want. Yet women are finding that feminism is destroying relationships. There are studies that have proven that due to online dating apps men are being left out of normal relationships. So this video does not add into account social engineering due to the internet. Also failed to include Briffault's Law.
A Friend of mine showed me your video after  I spent a few hours reading incels forums  . I had lost faith in everything and you gave me life .  Seriously excellent video thank you
This is some really good insight. I didn't understand much about incels before now. All I knew was to stay well back but now I get it. I could be ready to have a conversation with one and be able to make some positive changes and feel well informed. Thank you.
Femoids...? Is the origin...  Female humanoids?
The first video that i watched and I’m obsessed.
My fuck hole isn’t sacred either and i don’t plan to squeeze any shithead out of there. :)
I’m so glad that I am gay. Or glad until forced monogamy and heterosexuality becomes a thing which thanks to recent developments in the world doesn’t even seem so unlikely.
Thanks for this
It's your face but you look really good. Are you sure you need more FFS? Other videos and writings I've seen on INCEls were highly critical but your's gave some understanding to how they became that way and how they may change. It wasn't a total hit job. Bringing in the transgender perspective at the end was a great touch. I'm trans and struggle with how to introduce that into a  conversation. How could I know what men think? Lol.
I wanna be a bread scientist
oof black pill was relatable up until step 5. then i realised i was lesbian and everything was fixed
I'm gay. My gaydar is on point and I'm very proud of that. HOWEVER, I did not pick up on the fact that you were trans until you specifically said it. You passed so well as to fly under my gaydar. Well done, you're the only person who has done this. ❤️
fuck I adore your face as is I hope you get the changes you want and makes you feel happier in yourself But you are lovely the way you are
How did you endure the research and the making of this video?
Every part of this was absolutely beautiful
this is my new favorite youtube channel. looks like you got another lesbian stan
your voice is so soothing oml
Its really self-abusive for anyone to think that another group of people have an easier life than you for arbitrary reasons like gender and skull shape.  The struggles are different but not easier.  Self-pity is also self-indulgent and selfish.  It's really hard to get out of that mindset if you've entertained it your whole life, but it is possible to escape it and create new neuro-pathways.
that intro made my ovaries dry up
I was wondering why Roosh felt the need to defend baking considering the stereotypical baker is a man and has always been, but then I remembered it's Roosh, who probably actually believes shit like "real men don't eat quiche"
"I used to be a man."     YOU DON'T SAY?  PS: You're still a man, no matter what your enablers try to say so they can virtue signal to their Tumblr friends.
What percent of the MGTOWs would you say are actually incels?
I’ve been lost in the comments here for hours in between watching pieces of the video at a time but I was genuinely shocked when you said you used to be a man and I honestly never would have guessed because plenty of girls have deep voices I just think it’s pretty and unique just like you are :)
Roosh finally took the bread pill.
Emojis that *_NEEDED_* to be included in the incel blops meme even more than shower (because they _should_ already _at least_ be doing that):  ☀️!!🏋️‍♂️🚴‍♂️⛹️‍♂️🧘‍♂️🥦🥑🥩🎸📚🐶🧖‍♂️ The last one is supposed to represent taking care of their skin (or see a dermatologist) bc pizza face ain’t it  Avoid: 🚫💊😭🤤🤬🥓🍟🍕🍫🖥🎮🎧 No more red pill (but do take ur vittamens)
you are marvelous
Bordel de Dieu... Je suis à l’extrême opposé de tout ce que tu représentes. Pour moi, la transexualité est tout au plus un délire identitaire... Une aliénation mortifère aboutissant à la mutilation. Pourtant, pourtant, pourtant, je me fous de tout. Quand je regarde tes vidéos je regarde de la poésie, de l'intelligence, de la vivacité comme j'en ai rarement vu.  Merci.   PS : Merci au traducteur aussi.
This video is very impressive, it's really well edited/scripted and the overall vibe is great.
thought dis bih was kinda hot but kinda masculine then found out this bih a dude bruh
4:38 my names becky and that picture looks like me holyshoot
I think I'm gonna love this channel. Very atmospheric, seems like that pseudoscience/mystic type of atmosphere but with actually not bullshit being spilled, but critique.
every day I find more reasons to be immensely grateful that I’m a lesbian
Damn, this made me cry.
Great video! It was interesting to watch and even though it's 35 minutes long, it felt like 5! I also have to say that you look SO classy and beautiful, keep doing you :)
to harm someone you must degrade and dehumanize them, becouse people just don't want to kill each other, unless they don't think they are dealing with other people
Puked in my mouth a lil bit listening to the opening.   You're a very attractive woman btw 👌
First time viewer here, and I’m so amazed by this video. You manage to be realistic but also empathetic. I’m impressed with how thoroughly you researched. And I’m impressed with how you thoughtfully related to such a hated subculture to empathize with them. This video is great and I can’t wait to watch more.
Becky > Stacy, no contest.
Honestly I hate the fact that you’re trans (not seriously though, this is all a joke (at least partially, you are still pretty)) because I’m a hetero female and yet I still look more like an ugly guy than you lol and like even if you’ve had surgery for your face shape (idk if that has happened but regardless) you still pull of being a women 10 times better than me and how dare you 😂
@15:42 Absolutely BullShit!!! Photoshopped 100% Miss Leading in every way!! Fuck you and the horse you rode in on!!!! I’ve been happily married for 30 years because I worship the ground my wife Walks On!!! It’s all about being kind! That’s it!! Nothing More Nothing Less!!! Yes there are shallow people out there! But predominately Love Rules The Day!! Every Time!!
this video was so well made, you're iconic as fuck. and hey incels, relationships arent what they're cracked up to be..
can you read audiobooks
Oh great another mental health freak show trying to talk shit how cute. Go shoot yourself you are going to anyway.
I lile my wrist because its so delicate. Im OfFeNdEd
Hit women
"People fall so in love with their pain, they can't leave it behind.  The same as the stories they tell.  We trap ourselves." -Chuck Palahniuk  Everyone has a narrative they created (usually subconsciously) describing their life and then spend the rest of their lives cherrypicking evidence to support.  It's why The Winner Effect works.  Incel-dom is just another fiction that somewhere, somehow people got in their mind "I am this" and every subsequent experience reinforces it.  For the same reason it's easy to write off compliments (I once googled "how to receive a compliment"), "that's not true.  They're just trying to be kind to poor old me."  There are ways out; generally they are not easy since acknowledging that the possibility of happiness/improvement exists requires taking ownership for one's past actions and abandoning the victim mentality, as well as coming to terms with the fact you'll never get that time back (time YOU wasted with your poor choices).  That is painful to do, and it's only upon seeing that a continuation of the current path is MORE painful that the choice to abandon the incel identity can take place.  Getting to see that is what they do in Fight Club, hence the Palahniuk quote.  I went on a journey, not literally to Fight Club though to the course that inspired Palahniuk to write it, and pulled myself out of a nosedive before hitting rock bottom (for incels, the Black Pill).  Once trained to identify these narratives that I create about myself, I am able to explode them, but the first time definitely required an experienced leader (shaman if you will) to guide me there.  I venture this would work for most incels too.  I didn't type all that as a lead in to this, but I must add: this is the first video of yours I've seen and you're one-of-a-kind.  The production quality and unique design, the whiplash from serious discussion to abnormal humour, the actual digging to understand others' viewpoints - it's a perfect storm.  Speaking of which, I probably have no more specific sexual desire than to fuck in a driving rainstorm, and your description of the inherent eroticism therein is totally unmatched in my experience.  Your screen presence is bordering on Tim Curry levels of unadulterated confident pure being, and I would absolutely get on Baltimore tinder.  Is it unheard of that I would like to experience the current dick'd and future pussy'd iterations of you?  Shit that's hot.  Peace.
Those things that have been launched into space some time ago should be trashed. Your videos need to be launched into space instead. We are so insecure and erratic and aggressive species and yet we have several features worth remembering: humor and criticism and kindness. You embody it in 2018.
Unhappiness is a choice more than happiness is.
basketball kill mah head
22:22 asmr video when
12:18 - sweet merciful crap, how much of an insecure man-child does someone have to be in order to feel the need to state that baking/cooking does not "make [him] a woman"? Being able to prepare food is a pretty fundamental skill, necessary for self-sufficiency - however one defines masculinity/"manhood," I would think it should at least include things like basic competence in looking after oneself.  Also, when roosh says he's "not a woman," did anyone have an immediate reaction of "WHAT? NOOO! I never would have guessed that from the giant beard." It's practically a comedy beard, to the point where I kept excepting John Cleese to pop up and say "And now, for something completely different."
Sir David Attenborough?, is that you?
Eminently bangable twink. That's...not a phrase I expected to hear today about Elliot Rodger.
Woah... I didn’t know you were trans.. I have a lot of bias to challenge!
cant begin to explain how you are clearly awesome and inspiring but i know for a fact you look like two of my idols, Emmy Rossum and Winnona Ryder
These men have body dsymorphia worse than I do and I have anorexia.
"Femoids"
First time I see one of your videos and you got a subscriber. I usually don't comment so much on youtube but I have to say that your analysis is both very complex and sensitive. Most people who try to make a critique of the incels' world view come off as too condescending and moralizing to actually touch them, but I feel like this could actually make a difference.  Keep up the good work!
uh oh I think I'm sexually attracted to the ocean now
I've been lurking 4chan since 2006, and this is the first time in my entire life I've ever heard the term "femoid."
Enjoyed this video, except that you threw in a random unfounded jab that Peterson is a sexist old man. That was kind of pathetic.
I wish I could like this video twice
I didn't even realize you were trans when I clicked on this video. Face and voice legit don't strike me as masculine.
Hnnnnng girl pretty
FEEEEEEEEEEEEMOIDS
Wait. You're trans. Shit, I need to get my life together, 21 years of learning how to be female results in me looking like crap, and you nail it in a fraction of the time? I kinda hate you right now.  You look good.
>jordan peterson
I don't deserve this; I thank you.
Awesome research. Whole incompassing.  No pun intended.  What is ratio of women to men in their 20s to 30s?  Last I seen there were more men then women for the first time.    So...um...killing baby girls has come back to bite society.  I find depression needs to be eradicated.
"The manosphere exists because rock and roll is dead" True words of wisdom
Honestly I would love to do research about commonalities between toxic internet communities like this. TTTT, incels, pro-ana, etc. The digital self harm stuff is really interesting
22:23 pure asmr 😴
Is this stuff common knowledge for young people now? I had no idea this madness was happening, and it's SO carefully mapped out and devastatingly scary.
“Your never get this” Me: Thank god!
at first i thought you was real woman, your passing is really good.
People will hate me for saying this, but I actually sympathize with these guys, even though they are losers who ought to just kill themselves already rather than make the world a shittier place. It worries me that I see myself becoming more and more like them. I dont even hate them for being misogynistic. Their assessment that sex is a marketplace with winners and losers is completely accurate (although they seem to forget this applies to women too. Its not like theyre arent fat chicks whove been cursed to die alone either, but they tend to become the opposite side of the same coin, hardcore feminists) I actually understand how being undesirable would make someone resentful. Not saying its right. What I hate about them is that they wallow is self-pity rather than recognizing that they are the problem, and that they have to change themselves. If they truly tried, they could learn how to play the game and make themselves more marketable, working out and hygeine could go along way. and if they truly believe they cant change their fate, and maybe they can’t like if they are very short, then they either need to accept it and learn to be happy in celibacy and not blame women for their own inferiority or take the easy way out with a bullet.
r/traa is much better than TTTT.
I had no idea this existed. this was very interesting. I also want to say you are really pretty, I mean it. (Love your use of Chopin as well)
Hello Contrapoints  I'm an old Involuntary Celibate 40 year old and god... i want to THANK YOU for this vid.  I'm a french guy, so please forgive my poor english.  Dear public.   You know, what is worst to be forever alone, ashamed of that feeling, confused by irrational behavior eluding your best logic and your honest way of life? To be forever alone, ashamed, confused, and be associated with a death-cult neo-fascist movement who think feminity is the new evil overlord.  Yeah, thank you 2018, what a lovely day!  The red pill... How to describe it. A very bad idea created by a very scarce self-esteem. Scape-goating half of humanity isn't exactly a good idea. It make things realy worst. For all of us.  But the strength of this vid, it's how it describe the Black pill syndrom.    The catastrophizing spiral. The Lay Down and Rot Dead effect. Here is the real deal, the real thing you have to understand to see our point of view. It's not just we can't get laid. It's just a side-effect of something definitively worst. We, freaks, nerds, outcasts, have a long habitus of escapism. It's ok, it's a shity world after all. But it's not helping at all. We lose connexion with other, our horizon shrink a little bit day after day. We watch our world crumbling, and we didn't have a clue to stop that.  It's hard to heal the wound, but it's possible. To feel again, care for other, and most of all, let go the painful past.   Et pour terminer en français, merci Contrapoint pour ta finesse d'analyse et ta délicieuse légèreté lorsqu'il s'agit d'aborder nos frustrations existentielles. Ta manière de traiter ce sujet m'a vraiment touché, et pour cela chère amie, je te t'en rend grâce.
This video is iconic and She's so gorgeous omg... mother
"the manosphere exists because rock and roll is dead"
As a pre-HRT trans girl, I really valued the last quarter of this video. Overall, amazing job! :D
Genuinely a work of art
This video would have been amazing if you sat in front of a webcam with a a bag cheetos in a mumu but the production value is fucking crazy. How the fuck are you sitting here looking like a fucking renaissance painting with a fucking orchestra playing while you talk about fucking the sea. I did not want to fuck the sea and now i want to fuck the sea BRAVA
omg i am deceased new sub love this love you
I didn’t realise how attracted I am to the sea until this video.
that intro jesus christ
The Cartoon Character world is a symptom of the internet. Feminism's "Toxic Masculinity" and "The Patriarchy", Conservatives have "The Left", "Millennials", "Snowflakes", "SJWs" people need to understand that theory and the real world are two completely different things. Everyone is more interested in convincing themselves they are right than the truth.  Thank you for putting this video together
omg congrats on 830k+ views!!!! love u!!!
Hi Contra. I ended up here through a strange maze Youtube suggestion black magic, and had never heard of you or the channel until a few minutes ago. I wasn't even intending to learn what an incel was tonight, but thanks for clearing that up I guess. Anyway, I'm commenting to say that I was surprised to learn you were trans. Your skull didn't give you away ;) You ain't no Hon. Have a nice day, and thanks for the great content.
Roosh’s beard... wtf is going on?!
i don't know if i should say this or not, but i had suspected you might have been born a man before you revealed so because of several minor features. that being said, you are absolutely GORGEOUS and as much a woman as any other, as far as i am concerned.
How about a voluntary celibate? Is that a volcel?
definitely enjoyed the video the presentation is very nice
i am so guilty of the cyber self-harm as well, but i've learned to shy away from things that are too real and just go for the over the top raging bigots that can barely get a sentence out. kinda turns it around to how stupid the people against me are.  also, on the topic of dating apps being based on appearance alone, i found a workaround as an unattractive 5'3" gay trans guy. never going to be the sexy hookup, but if you cram humor into your profile pic then you get a lot less creeps and more genuinely enjoyable messages. though have yet to find a way around the "plumming" inquiries.
8:21 I GASPED.
The random ASMR moment caught me off-guard. XD
What is with the credits? lol
I could really feel for these guys more if so many of them didn't regard women with such hatred and contempt not to mention the fact that they act as though this lack of intimacy is exclusive to THEM. I hate to burst their bubble but even sexual intercourse is not always the key to true human connection. These guys seem to romanticize the act of sex to the same extent that romance novels do, albeit with a horror twist. Any person who has had even limited sexual experience can tell you there is nothing lonelier than lying beside someone you barely know or don't connect with but just went through the mechanics of sex with.  Another thing that bugs me is they don't seem so mad about the lack of sex altogether but the fact they can't "score" with women they consider "tens".  Why do so many guys think they are entitled to supermodels? Even more importantly why is our idea of beauty, especially female beauty so painfully narrow? Can they not get to know a person (yes, just like you she is a person) and learn what is attractive about them personally, even their quirks, instead of measuring against a superficial checklist - a checklist, by the way, that they feel is unfairly used to devalue them? I have compassion for them, I really do, but they are behaving as if every one else is having one peak sexual experience after another and that's just not so. There are a lot of us who are lonely, there are a lot of us who wish we were having more sex or better sex.  If you believe media tropes about this, especially MARKETING tropes about sex and relationships you are setting yourself up for bitterness that you don't deserve and will not only hurt you but those around you.  (Bracing myself for all the comments informing me I'm an old hag, but fuck it.) So glad I found your channel.
This is so sad can I get 5 DOOTS
My digital self-harm was watching this shitty video. The SJW mind is real.
*WHY TF IS SEX EVERYTHING FOR THESE GUYS?*
I thought roastie meant the victim of a pretty solid roast lol
You are so pretty, I love the way you did your hair
So, what's up with the new snowflake label, aren't they just run of the mill virgins who want an edgy name. No, you don't get a new name, you're still just virgins. Don't worry you can level up, it's like an RPG you can evolve to non virgin, all you have to do is stop being a pussy.
Knowing how government bureaucracy works, state-mandated girlfriends would not be nearly as great a thing as it might sound on the surface.
I have no idea why this was recommended to me...  Never heard of you and honestly couldn't tell that you're trans (whether you want to believe me or not).  However, that has got to be the most in-depth, rational take on incels that I've ever heard.  It is incredibly tough to deal with their self-destructive, self-loath hateful nature.  I was very fortunate to avoid becoming one, literally being on the edge of diving into that madness before discovering that I could overcome it, myself.  But those days were dark and I knew that such places existed.  However, I have never learned the ability to reason with them after that, not like you can in this video.  They were literally intolerable, insufferable people and wanted to be that way to fuel their own self-loathing.  But this video, it was enlightening.  I likely still can't tolerate them, but your point of view resonated with me on the issue.  It was hilarious how quickly I went from effectively being one of them to a "chad."  Also, this is the first time I heard "Hon" being an insult.  I've heard it before and assumed that it was, but never connected the dots.  Then again, I'm not trans, but I have some feminine features like being shorter than average, having  long lashes and thick, flowing, wavy hair that women pester me about it being wasted on a guy (Which was actually one of the main reasons that I hated myself in the incel-like part of my life).  Anyways, I'm getting too personal as well.  I'll simply say that this was a great video and that you're good looking, this coming from a mostly straight guy... because apparently I'd swipe right on a lovely trans if I had a tinder account, which I'm honestly not ashamed of anymore and am seriously considering trying it should I ever decide to date again.  Well, not tinder because it's awful, but dating in general.  Anyways, I'm subscribbling and liking, and will likely share this with a few friends as this video deserves it.
Other voice sounds like  John Malkovich
You are fascinating!
The psychology behind the Incel mindset isn't that simple actually. Those depressive thought patterns are really hard to break. Professional help is needed in most cases. The general isolation in modern societies makes it even worse.
omg how have I never seen your videos before I love you xD
That comment about Elliot Rodger being “bangable” actually made my day. So absurd it works as a joke.
Woah! I had no idea you were trans!!!
First of all: you earned a *stan* This is the first video of yours that I've watched, and tbh I was caught off guard when you said you were trans,,! I love how you're a down-to earth kind of person, and you even acknowledge the whole *'aS aTrAnS wOmAn'* thing. You're the only openly feminist youtuber I sub to, you're like, a reasonable one too.
I didn't even have the notion that you weren't female until you said it, wow :o this is a great video by the way. There is a lot of info out there about incels but a majority of what I've seen is just satire, and making fun of them without just a neutral dive into what the actual issue is. I feel like these sites for them are breeding grounds for mental illness and as you said..future murderers.. I too want to just shake them. Not only do you get woman haters, but just generally hateful people who have a chip on their shoulders against society. This in my mind, and my personal opinion is a big part of the ever growing problem of shootings happening. Angry basement dwellers who refuse to work on themselves or don't think it would matter who have been bullied or feel lesser and thus, want revenge. The internet is just a breeding ground for egging on tragedy.
istant subscribe. i already love this channel
Hey, so I'm trans and have wanted to make a youtube channel, but about other things. other than being trans, and idk...but you've kind of given me the idol i need. y'know?
this made me sub, gg
this video was not only extremely entertaining, but covered the lesser known parts of the incel community. immediately subscribed, cant wait to binge watch.
FEEEEEEEEMOIIDS
Even though I don't agree on some of your points, your videos are very well made and entertaining! New sub.
im so glad i found your channel youre so good!!!!
Poor Shaun had to read that whole thing :'(   EDIT: wow nevermind. Poor philosophy tube having to read that whole mess
Tinder is a terrible 'dating' app but anyone can get laid on tinder.
So what do they call older man that is still married? Or they old cucks that the woman just haven't left for a Chad yet?
It’s so sad that guys have no sex cause of thin wrists they won’t even be able to wank their brittle bones will just crumble. Damn. Press f to pay respects.
Hands up who wants to ride the cock carousel
I’m equal parts angry as hell at these men and sad for them at the same time. Imagine living your life thinking an entire group of people hate you for no reason and that the government should force them to sleep with you.
I am blown away by how articulated and genuinely intresting you made that subject that I used to think as nothing more than ridiculous. And the sass! Ha !
Nope honestly if you can not talk to another human being in person how are you going to have a relationship?
Subscribed
Remember, sex isnt creepy. Its supposed to be fun and lighthearted. Lonliness is creepy.
Leaving the incel content aside (I've got complicated, mostly-negative feelings on the subject that it'd be too much trouble to articulate atm), the production value of your videos is *really good*. Particularly the audio cues and transitions. You're very skilled at production and communicating through video!  Here's hoping you get some personal value out of making these videos comparable to the emotional and ideological sewage you have to wade through to make them though, because good god you spent much longer analyzing poison like the incel-sphere than could possibly be healthy.
*snap* I knew it.
If there are any "drugcels" here allow someone better and more intelligent than you to tell you why you're living life incorrectly. Sorry that I have to intellectually "Chad" you right now (I think that makes sense based on the video), but apparently every woman in the world could say this and it wouldn't matter because you believe in a power dynamic between them, so someone of the same gender is just going to have to slap you with some hard truth. And the only reason that it's hard for you is because you've been doing it completely wrong. My gift to you:  1.Women are not a commodity. The only reason there is a power dynamic between genders is because one is created when a party tries to take advantage of the other.  2. Drugs are not hard. You're only bad at doing drugs because you're actually stupid. Get your shit together. Clean your room. 3. Imagine how a woman feels living in a world where she is constantly being viewed as an object for you to violate. 4. You might be alone. That's okay. Even good people die alone, and just because you have "expanded your mind" you are not special. 5. Instead of trying to be a more attractive figure, try being a better person with a better personality. Your personality is the expression of your soul, your physical form is a manifestation of your obsession. 6. Reddit is for losers and neckbeards. You're cool right? I mean, you do drugs, so you're supposed to be cool. Why are you on a website for losers? Think about that. 7. I could keep going but I have better things to do than type endlessly. So do you. Any questions?
One word: refreshing. What an incredibly nuanced and intelligent video on a highly sensitive subject. You were empathetic to the struggles of loneliness and self-deprecation, yet firmly took the stance that the r/incels and other communities built on self-loathing are toxic to the mind and soul. I'm sharing your channel with all my friends.       Also, u pretty :) great bone structure 10/10
God youre awesome, and gorgeous!!!
Maybe they didn't get enough hugs growing up.
not to steal people from here but this other video has a lot of great key points like your video does https://youtu.be/9mpCP2fem98 just thought I'd share because it's the same main topic.  I never thought I was going to watch the whole video but great job. good content fam
"bread scientist" brava.
Just found you. I’m binging now... see y’all in a year
I think I enjoy your way of viewing things. I shall binge and see.
Part of me feels bad for these kids. Then they open there mouths and boom. That's why no one wants to touch your pee pee son.
First time viewer and I must say, I love your production value!
I think I heard Steven Pinker say it first; 'Pessimists sound like they're trying to help you, while optimists sound like they're trying to sell you something.' You hear one negative opinion that sounds heartfelt, and all the optimistic, encouraging comments you receive suddenly seem disingenuous and naive. Human nature can, at times, be enticingly repugnant. I've caught myself thinking along these lines with regards to criticism at work, hobbies, dating, et cetera and... I'm not sure it's possible to accept the above advice emotionally - to really feel that it's true in your heart of hearts (dare I say.... in your bones?) - but knowing it helps. It's mildly comparable to imposter syndrome in that regard.
an here I thought incels where the guy that were in the 80% of males that are not the alphas or in the 20%
What an incredible video. So many excellent points on such an interesting topic. You are also hella pretty!!!!! You got yourself a new sub.
The part about going on threads about yourself and people pointing out your flaws really resonated with me, as a girl who has been struggling with anorexia since a young age. On those pro-Ana sites You’d look at meanspiration, or sometimes post your body and have people call you fat and point out your flaws, when if you’d go to a friend, family, or therapist they’d always tell you you’re fine, you look good, you’re healthy, when you feel really dysphoric and insecure about yourself. Using weird anorexia methods to understand incels LOL
God i can’t get enough of these videos, not only is the way you put across the information, facts, points and figures amazing, it’s smart and informative, you keep me listening intently, learning and entertained at the same time and I’m so happy to have found your channel, please keep doing these and I hope you love making these as much as we love watching them!!! 💕 love you mom x
I'm a 29 year old woman who's a virgin due mostly to my generalized social anxiety (among other factors, but I don't want to bore you) and I learned the hard way to avoid male virgins around my own age like the plague. Most of them are either super religious and will only value me for my "purity" or they're basically Jack Torrance.
jesus christ men are fucking crazy.
This was really well made!
this is so incredibly fascinating, also hi new subscriber here and ready to stan queen yassss <3
Whenever I think of the red pill, blue pill thing. Think of how blue pills are either sleeping pills and how red pills are stool softeners. I got that from a weird Elvis super hero thing that was on TV once. Elvis took some pills and claimed they would make him kick ass but his sidekick reminded him they actually would make him pass out and shit himself.
i keep on getting this shit on my recommended it’s so annoying i’m just watching this so it can go away. it’s been weeks and it just want it go l e a v e
This is the first of your videos I ever watched, and I'm genuinely impressed with your analysis and the amount of empathy you show toward the incels.
Nobody cares about gender, your gender, incels, femoids or whatever. Honestly, though... nobody should care. What do you identify as? I don't care. What do I identify as? You don't care.  Just live your fucking life and don't be a douche.
First video of yours that I watched, it was just randomly suggested to me and WOW girl, you slay. I love your asthetic and your voice and you are so beautiful...like why haven't I seen you before? <3
wtf youre the best
I think you are lovely. When I first started watching I didnt realize you were Trans. Besides that, I really liked your video, I liked the editing, the lighting and I really like the way you laid out your ideas and information. <3
Instant subscribe. This is a really well put-together video. Keep being beautiful and convincing others they are as well!
This is my first time watching your channel and I already know just what the fuck you’re about. Love it, I’m all in!
Holy moly.  Purple is your color.  Yowsers!
Omg i love this video. I thought i knew a lot about the incels but you showed me a lot more and it was interesting comparing the incels to the TTTT group. Just liked and subscribed 😊
45 seconds in  GET ME OUT OF HERE!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
*LEAVE MY BUN ALONE S A V A G E S*
*tranny starts talking*  holy fucking nope. I wanted to laugh about incels but christ, stop subjecting people to your disgusting lewd behavior. they're are children on this site.
best surprise asmr ever 😆
This this a man or a woman? I can't tell.
That was really insightfull and well explained! You comparing yourself to the incels was a strong point too and a vulnerable one. Props for that! I loved the entertaining way you present these videos with props and a nice decor, but straying away from information or making it distractingly funny. I'm gonna subscribe, hope you have more great quality like this in store for viewers.
First time viewer and I am SUPER impressed by you. I'm very familiar with incels so I only clicked on this video with the initial thought of "here goes another sugar-coated incel explanation" and I was so wrong. This video just made me excited to watch your other content. The dialogue, the delivery, the beautiful outfits, the lightning, the background music, the whole "sitting with a glass of wine to talk", just everything. What really hooked me was the contrast between your grace and femininity and the instances of a guy reading things and making light of how horrible they were in context. You had me HOOKED. I don't even know any of your other videos but you are definitely the first Youtuber I see that I immediately want to patreon. Great job, this video and what you can do, with a topic like incels, is amazing. I can't believe you used to live as hetero male -- you're so elegant, feminine, and graceful. As for the content and the script itself -- it was great. I love the format, the transitioning, the structure. Very thorough, humorous, and I love how you would relate certain instances and topics to things that you've come across in your life. I can't believe this video was 35-minutes. You wasted no time while also leaving me wanting more. Just.. thank you.. so much.
I can't believe that I've never stumbled across your content before now!! I love how you explored their mindset through your own experiences. Not only is this video an excellent breakdown of the behaviors in the incel community, but it's also incredibly entertaining. Great work!
i would pay to lick you
What I don't understand is in a patriarchal society men have these ideas about women no matter how many women they have. I guess  you can take the boy out of patriarchy but not the patriarchy out of the boy. East, west, north, south men are afraid of women, period.
Holy hell, you are the earth goddess made flesh!
"Why do people cut themselves?"  There is a one-volume, autobiographical manga "My Lesbian Experience with Loneliness" about a woman describing her long lasting depression, figuring out her sexuality and eventually trying to have some sexual contact. In this she echoes an explanation of self harm that she had heard on a talk show, and i recognized myself in it as well. Paraphrase:  "When you feel like everything in your life is terrible and hopeless but you don't understand why you feel this way; it's very frustrating. You can't point at the wound in your soul and say 'This is where it hurts.' Self harm is a way of taking control of reality. A way of deciding yourself where the pain is coming from, and in a way you can understand."  I don't know if a lot of people relate to this or if it's even a good parable to digital self harm, but i wanted to throw it out there.
I don't understand any of it but this video is hilarious.
I haven’t seen your videos in so long, they haven’t been showing up in my sub box :/...I always love the content you make, the quality of these videos are just amazing. Keep doing what you do.
B R E A D S C I E N T I S T
Because looks have absolutely nothing to do with attracting females.
No wonder skeletons are the main point of Spooktober, so damn scary, it's all their fault /s
I think I've got a new,favorite youtuber to watch.I've binge watched you today and I'm hungry for more!
No one should LDAR Alone.
8:09 I died
When I saw the incels skulls part I was like Gees those guys ever heard of Botox? Ain't nothing wrong with a little cellulite you know.
Oh my gosh, you're so freaking awesome. This video was so great and held my attention the entire time! Gonna subscribe for sure.
I am also a first time viewer and I feel more informed and flattered in way by your style. :)
There is nothing I don't like about that chad and virgin cartoon. I'm convinced that they love and support each other. Great vid!
Wow i never wouldve guessed you were trans, youre absolutely gorgeous ❣
First time watcher here, hounestly thought you were a woman until you said otherwise.
Video: "Imagine how a woman feels." Me: "Well I don't know, I'd imagine women feel pretty threatened and terrified that there's an entire subset of men who genuinely believe that they're owed sex despite them being raging woman-hating assholes, and that society seems to downplay this mindset as undeserving of any legitimate scrutiny-" Video: "Imagine how soft and warm her skin feels." Me: "......oh."
I could hear you talk for hours (also you need to make a whole video on the TTTT,  it seems really interesting)
First few minutes and I’ve already instantly fell in love with her.
New to this channel instantly knew you were a transfag you're not fooling anyone bro
I love your content, Natalie! you are so talented and gorgeous <3
Was put off by the youtube recommendation because "ugh, not more stupid incel drama" - but oh my god, this whole thing is on point and absolutely hilariously written. Really love all the set and costume designs too - the flavor they add makes this quite unique for YouTube. Will definitely jump into future videos more quickly!
The way you thoughtfully deconstructed the psychology and underlying mental health issues here really blew me away. You've given me a lot to think about, especially with the concept of digital self-harm. And can I just say, the whole thing looks and sounds so professional and polished. I felt like I was watching a documentary. Incredible video. Thank you.
Does she have a water fetish or...?
Cvhghclhdhd  This is the first video I've watched and you've made me loose my shit already  Feeeemoidddsssss  Keep up the great work!
*Immediately moves to Baltimore to try and match Contra on Tinder*
They are bitter and lonely. THat's it. I've pmed quite a few. Even the most verbal ones are kinda nice guys under all that. Just sad and lonely. Now TrueFemcels on the other hand... Those are the most hateful people I've ever met. Most there see the idea of sex with men as disgusting. Seeing any happiness, intimacy, and positivity with men as bad. That is actual pure hatred. The only thing holding those women back from having a boyfriend is their pure hatred and mistreament of men. They don't seem to realize men aren't objects. That they are people too with feelings and emotions.
I'll admit a lot of INCEL's and MGTOW's seem to be focused on spite. But I dont. I'm a nerd who realized I suck at trying to get laid. I hang out with friends  (including women) I play my video games watch my movies and tv shows and am really not in understanding of the hate. Chicks want what they want. It's literally not something anyone should be mad about.
Roosh looks like he's trying to join a hipster jug-band fronted by ISIS members.
I call myself "red pilled" but I certainly don't think of women as you described. I mean it politically. I "came to my senses" about poltical correctness/communism, etc. and I'm now more rightist/moderate/classical liberal-minded.  I feel legitimate pity for people who are Black Pilled. That is some dark shit. I hope they may come to love themselves, love their own company, and not fear a relationship if one presents itself--and treat their partner well! THANK YOU for giving Jordan Peterson credit <3. He has helped many such people A LOT.  Contra, don't resist your empathy towards such pitiful people. Empathy has love at its root, and it makes us human.  You're the best talking-head-video-maker on YouTube, and the only interent Pinko I'm currently in love with. There's lots of queer extremist lefties that make us all look insane, but you make me proud to be under the rainbow. Love you, sweetheart. ^_^ <3
Woah you're super hot
incels rise up
Ruush? Ew. No... Give me a loving beta male right now. Keep the Chad psychopath.
Just discovered you, you rock. :)  You are elegant, smart and engaging! Would love a cuppa with such awesomeness.
I never thought I would feel bad for a community that is based on dehumanizing my gender but ContraPoints has compelled me... wow
i know this isn't relevant to the video but you look beautiful omg love the outfit and makeup and hair and just yes
>PragerU Ad against feminism >on a video about incels  Hmm...
Wow, i was really suprised to see that Becky vrs Stacey illustration. It's very confusing. . .It seems incels approach things with a perspective designed for failure.
Are you real?
Someone should tell these incels that one night, she's gonna suddenly stick her longest finger up your butt. Then fuck the dog groomer. Chad leads a humiliating life. #No tall dick
I had been avoiding watching this video when it was recommended to me on youtube, but oh my god I wish I had watched it sooner. I thought it would either just try to justify them, or just make fun of them. It actually is intelligent, and funny, and the visual style and ambiance is just wooooooooonderful. I feel myself becoming a fan of this channel.
It's definitely a base self-loathing that creates incels (and a bunch of other stuff e.g. heteronormativity, hyper genderization, etc). I, myself, have a deep self-loathing that prevents me from even being intimate with friends much less romantically. I'm a lady, so I can emphasize with some of the teenagers who actaully do end up growing out of it like I did. Before, i used to think it me vs everyone else but in reality it's me vs I, the problem is that this developement ends up being documented online rather than in the personal bubble of you and serial killer documentaries on the TV (thanks Dateline) which does end up influencing those less self-restrained (read: kids going through puberty, sheltered adults, etx).
Wait- do you live in Baltimore? Yay! A YouTuber from my area!
Great. Rain turns me on now
This video is so good, I’m watching it for the fourth time. I’m forcing it on my friends. After I watched it the first two times, I binge-watched all other ContraPoints videos on her channel, and now I’m back to watching this one again. So good. SO GOOD.
Awesome vid. Just got to the skull part and felt like it needed to be said; You are a woman, you look like a woman. When you mentioned being trans in your vid I was taken aback (First time watcher.) Looking great! Don't shave your bones! Seriously, you're beautiful.
THATS A GUY
Actually the dating app story doesn't really match my experience with dating apps (okcupid to be exact). I'm a pretty average looking guy, with actually a pretty smallish bone structure that I've built some muscle mass around. I quite like myself. The experience I've had is that the conversations I've had have been pretty evenly innated by both me and women.  Other than that I think this is a great video. This has been popping up in my suggestions ever since you did your collab with Lindsay and I've been putting off watching it. I'm glad I did and will be watching more of your stuff since you seem great.  Ps. It hadn't occurred to me to wonder whether your trans or not and I'm usually pretty perceptive about these things. For a cis guy anyways, make of that what you will
very informative! sad content with a great delivery
Why am I only just now finding out about you?!  I adore your commentary. I wish more people were like you. So intelligent and rational.
I’ve just stumbled across your channel and corrected the travesty that is the fact that I had not subscribed to you before now x
just learn to play an instrument.  problem solved.  look at radiohead for christ sakes.   radiocel?
Well researched and beautifully delivered. Thank you. Subscribed.
uhm.... this is amazing
I prefer the term ugly fuck pizza face to incel
Thank god I'm bisexual
This video is great! Keep it up. I laughed and I learned.
I wonder what incels think of this video... (and did they watch they whole thing?)
*"Continuously cuckholding him on the alpha-cock carousel."*   LOL oh my god I'm dead.
_>*roastie*_  Actually, this is merely an *autological* term that describes the objective, predominate look of the _adult_ female vagina―where the labia ("flaps") are visible.  The implication that this stems from overuse / 'over-penetration', is an epithet that the term has been expanded to define, and does not constitute the etymological origins of the neologism in question.  Any word can be usurped, redefined and adopted for whatever purpose ― example: *_sceptic_* is often used as a dismissive slur for those who question propositions, yet the term comes from _sceptici → scepticus_ [Latin] and _sceptikoi → sceptesthai,_ [Greek], and literally means *"to examine, consider.*  That is, I don't know about anyone else, but being accused of examining and considering something, rather than just blindly espousing it, is hardly a slur...!  In reality, one of the most popular forms of elective surgery that females embark upon, is *labiaplasty* ― _lit._ the removal of the [protruding] labia dewlaps; done in order to achieve a more neotenous (child-like) inguinal region.  This fact implies that female themselves see this part of their anatomy as 'unaesthetic', in much the same way as they do a small bust line or wide waist or wrinkles.  To assign full culpability to sexually repressed males for coining this term (and that it was born out of pure spite for the female pudenda―such that it is), is fallacious reasoning.
Factoids: ● *It has been observed in females that, when in a sexually active relationship where conception is not achieved (either through failure or by choice), females will look outside of the relationship for sex.  This phenomenon is attributed to the female's congenital, maternal needs reading the lack of procreation as a sign that their [sexual] partner is somehow 'faulty', and that she must, therefore, seek out a more 'operable' sexual partner [to facilitate procreation].*  ● *When a female is oestrous (on "heat") and ovulating, if her partner does not conform to the "alpha"* _(† a misnomer predicated upon the traits of wolves ― a matriarchal, nay patriarchal species)_ *standard of the archetypal male, she will look outside of the relationship for sexual encounters.  This predisposition stems from the female's innate compulsion to find the most suitable sire for her brood; such that, he can provide the best possible chance for the progeny's survival.*  Reference: _Waking Up,_ with Sam Harris ― "Navigating Sex and Gender" (with Martie Haselton), Ep.#135 https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BZCrUC463Zs https://www.hooktube.com/watch?v=BZCrUC463Zs
I was hearing some dude who I'm sure subscribed to the red pill theory talk about how the color blue "can't be fully appreciated by the female gender"
You’re a mentally ill man n a wig...not a “she”
Satanic tranny...human trash
That's a fucking titan of an Adam's apple you've got there, dude. Still didn't distract me from this video though, this is expertly done. I saw the length and said "nope" but I just sat through the entire thing anyway, against my will due to the sheer comfy-ness of this video. I wouldn't want to bang you because... *SPOILER* (((it's the 8 inch wiener))), but I'd definitely enjoy having a beer with you. Or an appletini. Or a martini. OR whatever you fuckin' drink now. Isn't it funny how men are also better than women at being women? Oh shit, am I an incel now? Dammit... I really don't wanna talk to a bunch of autists about skull-conspiracies, but I guess I'm an incel now.
This was an incredibly insightful, detailed and well explained exposition of some of the darkest sub-cultures brewing on the web. I was apprehensive at first when I saw it appear on my list but ended up understanding much more because of it.
This turned into an ASMR video for a few seconds there when you were tapping on that skull
This was weird but i liked it
Are incels bringing back Phrenology ?
8:23 I fucking lost it at "Chadpreet"
Lift weights, eat healthy a few times per week, run twice per week, get a fucking job, try to envision an ideal future and the goals to achieve that future, and don't set your expectations too high. You will get laid eventually. Tbh, the best way to get laid is by not even trying to get laid. Put that unnecessary stress out of your mind, and that will free up the clutter in your brain and fill it with more productive thoughts. Women will flock to you when you build the confidence in yourself... If you're ugly and getting in shape doesn't help, then the next step is to get a better job, and maybe work on your social skills. This is coming from a previously alcoholic, angry, depressed, pathetic cunt; if I could climb out of 320+ days of drinking 1/3 of a handle per night, while unemployed rotting away in my apartment in a foreign state with zero friends and no sex, then you can climb out of whatever you're in. All it took for me and people like me to change was making a move, and just DOING things again... Graduating from university, feeling career aspiration, etc..   If you don't care about getting laid or having a family, or a successful career, then more power to you, just don't be a complete fag and spew your MGTOW and incel idiocy, because it's not healthy to promote; it's basically like the fat whales screeching about "fat shaming." Anyway, it's all baby steps, and the most difficult steps are the first three out the door, then you realize that you're allowing yourself to live again, and that you're the one in control. Or.. I guess you win the lottery or some shit and bang a bunch of models in a giant hotel room in Vegas for the rest of your life, that works too.
youre so damn funny, not what i expected when i clicked on this but i love.
Lol!! You couldnt have been a teen in 1975. At most a zygote. You look way too damn young. Oh and by the way: you're hot as f***k!!!
MY   S K E L E T O N   IS TOO   S M A L L
I don't know if you got the procedure to shape your face differently already but I think your face looks very feminine. It's very elegant and I didn't know you were trans until you said it. My voice is deep like yours and I do get mistaken as trans from time to time.  Anywhoooooo, you've gained a new subscriber you elegant, sultry vixen 😘
Just gonna put this out there. Most men's rights activists aren't like incels or pick up artists. They just want to be equal.
So what does be more confident even mean?
I am fully aware of what I have looked at in the past that has algorithmicly brought you and your video(s) to my feed.  I looked at the still, time and time again, wondering if I will watch it and now I have.   1) I love you. 2) thank you for taking the time to do the research I never even knew I didn't want to. 3) Having spent great swathes of my young life with INCELish beliefs that I've managed to shake,  I appreciate the care and concern of your handling of the topic. 4) For what it's worth I also love... ...  Lamp.
you called jordan and sexist old man but glossed over it... i would like to hear more of your opinion on him!
oh shes educated !?
Oh cool the transgender individual that's not only self aware but has a sense of humor about gender politics... I feel transphobic just for being surprised by this
Great, now I want to have sex with the ocean.
Being an incel isn't a joke.  People spewing memes & misogyny are underage kids who think its edgy. People who are legitimate involuntary celibates have a mental disease, its akin to autism or Asperger syndrome. Its really not funny, shocking and certainly not profound to make fun of them you are making fun of a disability, its simply sick and apathetic.
You are just a dickhead
I thought hon was just a shorter version of honey and not something mean like that :(
I get slightly turned on by large bodies of water now
I never would’ve guessed she was trans. She’s a very pretty woman! She is also very informative
I'm painfully single, but that's because I'm a difficult person to be around. The world doesnt owe me jack shit. Still I wonder how many guys really are that far down the rabbit hole
I thought “hons” were women involved with MLMs
omg the female experience on tinder. spot on! ur beatiful btw and so smart! <3
This video is a piece of art itself... pls, more aesthetic and smart videos like this, you speak really pleasant
this is my first time seeing one of your videos! it never occurred to me that you're trans until you said so! anyway, fantastic video; very in depth. sub from a nonbinary ♥
This is the first video of yours that I've ever seen, and I'm subscribing right now. What an incredibly insightful, articulate, and helpful video. Thank you for all the time and energy that you put into making this, and for confronting your own vulnerabilities, as well as some of the scariest parts of the Internet (so that people who can't learn about incel culture through the websites themselves because it would be unhealthy for them can still learn). Thank you also for educating me about the hurtful implications of the word "hon". I thought it was a cute endearment, like sugar or angel, but I will take this new education to heart and phase it out of my vocab.   Honestly, this is some of the best modern anthropological work I've ever seen. I'm very interested in the implications of vocabulary from niche cultures influencing our relationships with thought and mental health.   And, you got me, I do love touching (ethically obtained) bones!
*orgasms to warm pavement steam*      the only steam i orgasm to is that which provides godly, holy sales which allow me to save money but simultaniouly empty my wallet
Deadass your attitude is just fucking glorious. Just your outlook on everything reminds me of my girlfriend who’s currently transitioning and I’m so fucking about it. I stan a queen. Definitely subscribed
Sometimes actually clicking on a suggested video that has been haunting me for weeks works out. I'm glad I finally clicked. I don't know much about Incels I just heard the word as an insult. Then I looked it up and just lost interest in reading the Wikipedia page on it. But I like this video because it was entertaining and I learned about how messed up the internet can be. Also, you actually have a soothing voice it made the video about this toxic group easier to digest. Now I'm gonna get turned on by a sunset and live my best life. Thank you.
holy shit you are a goddess, and your makeup is on point!
who's reading the comments
I could smell the rain even though you didn't tell me to imagine it. THX
My God this video is retarded
The lighting in this video fuckin slaps
I feel like Beauty and the Beast fucked this all up lol WHY is it that women always have to be the ones to accept the ugly ass dude or a man who treats her like shit... she always gotta fall for him, nurse him back to health, or make him a better person.. She always have to change him... he is a grown ass man. Or the "Manic Pixie Dream Girl" narrative... a male protagonist doesn't feel he has won in life until he manages to tame and trap the free spirit chick. Take her down a few notches. STUPID!
This was sooo good. Oh man... I don't encounter Incel stuff and I do understand and respect some of the theories of "sexual market place value" but I do watch Stefan Molyneux videos and the MGTOW men in his comments are delusional, thirsty wankers. Every woman rejects you, yet women are the devil, all women are the problem... hey, fuckface. How about you work on your shitty personality? Stop wearing ripped up ugly New Balances, get a sense of style, cut your hair, stop wearing clothes from Hot Topic, you are an adult not an emo teen. How about get a better paying job? Go (back) to school? GO TO THE GYM FATTY!! I hate this argument because the difference between men and women is that if a man is completely ugly and unattractive, if he gets a good job and makes a lot of money he can marry an attractive, loyal woman who will love and take care of him... if you are an ugly and unattractive woman... you're fucked. Period. You can make all the money in the world and your odds of getting a loyal man who actually likes you and takes care of you? Forget about attractive... not happening unless he's taking all your money.
Don't give up, skeleton!
Roosh will be going to the guillotines after the revolution
This is weird, I dont agree at all with most of your feminist and political views, but somehow I still really like your videos...
Hahahahahaha damn I regret saying I didnt like you before. I might not agree with your beliefs and shit, but I love me some good videos. Absolutely cool video.
Masculine baking is punching dough on a mountaintop
THIS IS SO AMAZING!
SOUR GRAPES! 😂😂😂😂😂😂
These people make me question my attraction to men.
Wow none what to date a weak minded person.. go to a life coach and therapy.. confident ppl are more attractive one that is secure in themself.
I'm a chick and I got the radio silence. Yeah it sucks. And I'm not calling any demographic subhuman for it.
all of that Incel and red/blue/black/whatever pill stuff sounds utterly stupid  also, incels using tinder is like them using a fork to eat soup. They use the wrong tool
Well that was a well researched, well thought out and challenging video. Thank you for putting this together. I love your humor and your style. Its not often that i find something so engaging in both style and substance.
I just want to say that you're absolutely stunning, and this video is very thoughtful, well organized, and high quality! Keep it up!
You are among the most attractive women on the internet due not just to your beauty but your wit. I hope that you read this and that it makes you feel positive.
17:50 "CATS." I love it 😁.
hot dude in drag talks about beta males, to beta males  2018, what a time to be alive
Great video, and just felt I needed to say that I had no idea you weren't cis until you mentioned it. Congratulations on looking fabulous!
Beautiful
I'll say it: You're beautiful! :D
I, too, jack off at the beach.
And you're still queer! I need you <3 <3
YOU'RE A LEGEND.
Bread scientist 😂
Water is Life ~
im in love w u
Bunch of misogynist pussies with no life besides obsessing over sex
good shit. subscribed.
my first vid of yours, points are quality and the addition of fingals cave is quality
This is the first video of yours I have seen - I  have to say - very well done.  I'm going to subscribe and see what other things you have to say in an intelligent, mature and compasionate manner.  My only problem - how the hell do you f**k a stratocaster? (asking for a friend)
It's not too surprising to me that people would seek out things that upset them. I mean, one of the first rules of internet arguments is that anyone who says they're "leaving forever" is coming right back. There's a practically universal temptation to know what shit people are saying about you, some people just take it to a pathalogical extreme, & you've gotta find a strategy that works to avoid it. I don't block websites, but I do impose hard limits: If I say I'm leaving then I don't post again, if I'm not interested in the argument I mute comments, etc.  Anyway, I can definitely see why incels really get into that. It's the same rationale as a cult or a conspiracy theory, you're at once a victim & not to blame for any of your faults because everything is out of your control, but also superior because you have the special knowledge the "normies" don't. The self-pity & condescension are like drugs, they seem reassuring on the surface, but are actually wreaking havoc with your health. For which your cultspiracy says the solution is to further invest in it so lather, rinse, repeat.  I get it. I was awkward in high school & girls didn't seem to like me. While I never took it to the point of rampant misogyny, it was easy to say it would never get better, because then I could just push the anxiety of trying to relate to people aside & not deal with it. I guess you could say I empathize with them, but only to a point. They're trapped in a negative spiral of their own making, & if they could only realize that, then they might be able to fix their shitty personalities. On the other hand, I'm not gonna waste time pleading with people who reject help in favor of bigotry & resent anyone who tries.  Also, maybe it was a bad idea to tell us about TTTT, but I still appreciate knowing. Feels like a bit of perspective, y'know?
Lets get down to business to defeat the hons
Well, this is a good case for me to change my first name. Ugh.
Okay this is the first video ive ever watched of yours and im in love with your aesthetic i instantly subbed holy shit
I mean, some people really are unredeemably unattractive though, aren't they?  It's nobody's fault, but natural selection is a powerful force.
Thank you so much for this video—it made me see my own critical self-image in a different way.  You’re so wise!!
This was so thoughtful and human. Thank you for this video.
You indeed are a gorgeous goddess
YouTube has been recommending this to me for weeks, now that I’ve finally done it, I guess I have a new wife? Gigagay.
Nice and informative video though those 2 mannequins behind you are pretty creepy, gotta admit.
Thank you for showing me the way, skull people.
That last area in the Bloodborne DLC is now going to be oddly sexual for me due to the end of this video.  (Seriously though, this is a great video. I'll probably rewatch it later to really get a better idea of the discussed concepts and vocab. =Y)
This is beautiful
For a second I forgot "hon" was in our viewer's vocabulary and was deeply worried that our Mongolian friends were going to be extremely offended. Or maybe I'm not thinking deep enough? I mean, if you think about it, Mulan is the closest thing to a trans figure for all those cultureless Disney followers. And Mulan fought the Huns, ergo, HUNS ARE THE ANITHESIS OF SUCCESSFUL TRANS PEOPLE. We did it Reddit! Also our ultimate Chad (the sea) stopped the Mongolian invasion of Japan, so there's that too.
Suddenly i don't feel so bad about my shit.... thank you for wallowing so the rest of us did not have to....
They don't know what celibacy is. What they are referring to is chastity.
Oh dear... Found out about your channel very recently, and I'm in love. Your aesthetic reminds me of  my fondest memories shared with my best friend in all the fucking world, so, in a way, you're taking me home. Thank you for that. Apart from the visuals, your commentary is poignant, sharp, and witty, and that needs to be fucking appreciated in every way possible (by people like me, with a fucking elaborate vocabulary, who do give a flying fuck at a rolling donut about issues of the sort, obviously. Give me a slow clap). YouTube has the potential to be warm and welcoming, and you work that with such grace. So, yeah. Thank you. Love you. Keep it up. Proud of ya.
This is a great video. I love that it really unpacks some of the deeper motivations and psychology around this stuff, and honestly, I actually recognized some of it myself. Especially what you were saying about people seeking out abusive or negative feedback as a form of self-harm. I've definitely done that before, maybe not to the extreme that incels carry it, but it's a real thing. It was super weird as a woman and feminist to have a "oops I empathized with an incel" moment, but there you go. But I think you took such a perfect tone in this video, where you weren't harshly mocking incels, but you weren't acting as if their position is a rational one either. Obviously, just mocking incels doesn't really work, but I think a video like this could actually help some of them. TL;DR: Basically keep up the great work! Insta subscribe. :)
Contrapoints asmr
"leave my fuck hole out of this"
I'd never seen any of your videos before and my god this video is incredible. I've subscribed and am about to go and watch all your other videos right now. Thank you for making awesome content, this was lit af.
I'm taking the rainbow pill: All consciousness is one subjective experience and separation is a temporary mirage. We are all one entity traveling on a living earth in multiple dimensions of time and space having always existed transcending life and death through different levels of consciousness. There is infinite beauty and wonder as we are the eternal manifestations of love and a never ending dream.
or 4. Love is real and none of this bullshit matters.
Tahnk u skull peple
Big fucking yikes dude. It's terrifying to read the extreme posts, but unfortunately I've heard these exact self-hating, misogynistic words from men in my life. It's crazy to me how unhinged people can be, using every little thing to justify their views on people and society. I really wish all of these people could receive a wake up call that the world doesn't have to be so "evil".
This video is very informative. Thank you for doing so much research.
The narration at the start 🤣🤣💀💀
is she a man, or was she, i kinda seems like it no offense
This is the first vid I’ve watched of yours and can I just say that I love the style of vid and it’s always so obvious when someone is passionate about making videos and you’re honestly so funny. Love this, will be subbing ;) 😘
Foppington's Law: No matter how toxic or incorrect it might be, a specific opinion will quickly adopt pseudoscientific and metaphysical evidence to try and legitimize it, such as phrenology and personal belief.
oh the internet.... :/
I found this after this video after a bad series of month of rejection and I started drifting into incels mind set and this video really help. Thank you.
Perfect. Wonderful.
This video is art.
OMG. I will never squeeze life out of my sacred passage. If I could give that to you I would! You're hilarious.
Their age in 1975 lol I'm willing to wager that I'm older than you and I wasn't born then :D Good video, well done.
Oh my, rewatching this video after Ollie’s latest vid on Ment@l Health and Suic!de makes his contribution pack an even bigger punch. Especially when straight after Contra talks about using it as a razor blade.
I still don't get what an incel is. So it's a nerd that doesn't or can't have sex? Richard Spencer good looking guy I wonder if he is married if not then if he can get laid. I wonder what woman would but women can be awful racists too so Google that shit. I'm not an alpha but I still have sex at least once a month. I'm not a chad so idk maybe I'm a Pokémon chad evolved.
I'm sorry but I'm honestly shook at how her voice has changed and I love it so much God bless this channel
Bluepilled shit, this video was a waste of my time.
every kid has a guitar???????????!!!!! WHAT THAT FUCK THIS TRANNY IS RICH.
This video cleared my acne
There's so much to process and take away from this, especially when it comes to black-pill thinking in general and the mental damage it wreaks, how I can see times where I've related  to that catastrophizing pitch frame of mind (just in case it isn't clear, I mean in general, and NOT as in-line with Incel thought) and how to further unpack/examine all that shit, etc - that what I'm gonna settle on after my 2nd re-run is the fuckin' face she makes when she says "body" at the end. Priceless.
You're so funny and cool! I'm annoyed it took so long for YouTube to recommend this channel
I made it to 3:10 of this video.  I'm a incel (54yr) and it's noticeable that almost all of the videos about incels are negative.  We need to start making channels and websites run by one of us otherwise theres no place for us to meet and share what we have in common.
"At least these pricks care enough about my pussy... to be an asshole about my dick!" iconic.
Srs question: Is rock and roll dead because the manosphere exists?
How do you not have a boyfriend
I'm a volcel (MGTOW) I'm also a neo-fascist  (National Bolshevik) and im also black pilled! And yes I'm frequently depressed have had suicidal tendencies in the past and to be honest hate myself and the modern world ! But I am resigned to my fate as being forever alone and yes I probably will die alone, old, and unloved in a trailer in the woods !
Cis lesbian here to tell you that whether it means anything or not, you're honestly the most gorgeous woman I've ever met and I'm so jealous of your beautiful set, especially the mannequin busts, very pretty!
damn this is so informational and you are so smart!!
What a roller coaster I just experienced. I walked away educated, introspective, and encoraged. However, I mostly walked away entertaining dark fantasies of the ocean and thunderstorms. Great video!
I gotta say only 13 min and this video is a lot of help to me. I'm not an incel, but I do get those feelings of just not being good enough, and I never have had such a clam breaking down of the over reaction it is. Thank you
Ouch owie, my bones.
Honestly, blaming your autism for not being able to get a date? I've got autism and yeah, it's difficult, but would I really want to be with someone who doesn't understand me?
I really, really like how "The Virgin Walk" is almost me. Very relatable.
male, prefer the Becky but I guess I'm an "oribter".  This would all be easier if these fucks could spell
Wow! Von Braun was a smooth alpha not a nerd, get your facts straight. (Even if he did marry his cousin)
Wow! Von Braun was a smooth alpha not a nerd, get your facts straight. (Even if he did marry his cousin)
Yo I thought I had a shitty outlook on life and abnormally low self-esteem (leave me alone I'm working on it lol) but jeeeeeeZUS! You know how watching clips from the Jerry Springer show makes you feel better because "at least I'm not THOSE people"? Yeah I'm getting a real strong Jerry Springer effect from this vid.
I had 0 idea what this was when it came up on my recommended, but I found myself feeling intrigued like I was watching a documentary. I love the style you have, subscribed!
I loved your style and your confidence :3
I am confused
I'm.. in love 😍
This is great
I'm in love with your aesthetic and your makeup is on point
I have had a miserable romantic life, which the best description would be as practically non-existent. And i blame it all in myself, mostly. Yes, i have fallen in love with women who were assholes. But i also have fallen inlove with great women as well. So, the common link here is this: me.  The reality is: i'm hopeless in the romantic game. I don't know how to play the game. I don't know how to make myself interesting to women on either a physical or intellectual or romantic level. I'm utterly clueless. So often i'm so clueless i act weird, like being so nervous my mind blocks and i can't create an interesting line of dialogue. And sometimes i act like a jerkass, which is NEVER seen as a positive thing, regardless of what the stereotype of "women love jerk jocks" would like to make us believe. Both this are caused by my own shyness, i either act up all shy or i overcompensate and "kick the ball forward", both result in adverse results.  Life has made me more cynical and dissastisfied, and that reflects in my behavior and attitude, it's progressively easier for me to rage out and act like a jerkass, without even realising, only too late. It's strange, today i act more polite than i used to, but at the same time i also vent up and act like a jerkass as well, like living in a constant state of Dr Jeckyll and Mr Hyde (and no, i'm not bi-polar.... just a social idiot).  That's the reality of the situation. And to blame women in general, on othe rmen cloging the market, or feminism or whatever the fuck other frustrated amels do is, frankly, stupid beyond description. I am to blame for my romantic failures. Worse, i'm twice to blame for not being able to learn and move on, to still be frustrated and alone.  Do i dream of a future where i can finally find my soulmate? Yes. But it's getting progressively naive to still do. I'm at my mid to late 40s now, soon i'm past due. I better start getting used to the notion i am one of the few unfortunate that will never know a great love in my life. But the last thing i'll do is to turn into some Manosphere or Incel pussy, blaming others for my own failures. I might be pathetic, but i'm still a human being!
Are you a dude
those biips are too loud XD
Haha you are so freaking hilarious, love you, and I felt like your explanation of incels was really fair and balanced.
Lol whenever guys have big ass beards like that it always just screams out "I'm compensating for something!!!"
“chadpreet” made me cackle
Dude I like your content
I fucking lost it at the bleeping!!!
and I thought I was a virgin. but damn these guys are hella virgin
your channel is brilliant
I love your voice!
"Thank you skull-people" is my favorite quote
You look more feminine than me and I'm a girl lol At first I was doubting you were trans. I like your style, I'm gonna subscribe now :D
Baking is fun af, who cares. Also the quality of this video is amazing.
Sad and more than a little scary, but interesting and bravely made by this woman.
Oh god....so the red pill pickup artists are an entire group of Barney Stinsons....well fuck
Okay, I'm a trans girl that's dating a girl, so I'm mainly attracted to girls, but Iike boys too, about 80%-20%. And all the incel rhetoric about genetic determinism not only bothers me as a trans woman, but I can also excuse almost any appearance in a guy if he has a great personality. I have this friend that basically has ALL the stereotypical physical characteristics of an incel. You can see the outlines of the bones in his arms, he has the receding chin, scraggly beard, and janked up teeth. He is by far not the best looking dude. But here's the thing. **I think he's cute.** He's a very good actor and has lots of personality with a great sense of humor, and he's really entertaining to be around. I'm 100% comfortable around him. Incels really need to stop blaming and start reflecting, and changing internally.
This video was a fucking beautiful video and it’s so amassing I love it so much
Danny DeVito was married for 30 yrs and he ain't exactly an Adonis. Jim Sterling has no shortage of folks who wanna shag him. Never tell these Incels that getting a personality is a good start.
I came into this video really angry and frustrated at incels for being so willfully ignorant and letting that cloud their judgment of themselves and others, skewing it towards hate and violence. But towards the end I just felt sad for them, reminded that they're just lonely people who don't know how to make friends without being mean to themselves and others. But then the very end reminded me that they do indeed still do that first thing and I went back to being annoyed by them
I didn’t realise a lack of sex drove men insane. This vid is when I realised I’m prob asexual
so..... are "nice guys" actually all "hopecels"?  you biologicals are so confusing.
This have absolutely nothing to do with the video (funny by the way) but you look like Natalie Portman
Wow, I did not expect the word 'stan' used... This seems to be a thing.
I swear this video genuinely just made me attracted the sea and the rain
"I'll let you fuck you my pussy"
can we just talk about the quality of this video? the research, the production... i'm new to your channel and i've never subscribed so fast!
Why are people so quick to assign themselves to these ridiculous groups?
Funny, I could not tell you were trans until you mentioned it.
That baking dude with the huge beard. Just wow. Like, I'm a cis gay man and I LOVE baking. My masculinity is rooted in my identity as a man, comfort in my presentation as male in ways that matter to me. Perhaps it's because I understand that gender is a spectrum and is almost entirely performative and personal, but you're not your hobbies.
Woah. Geez. I didn't know anything about any of this. Except I knew that part about the sea. Thank you!
You're so beautiful 😍
I want to be a bread scientist one day but i'm a femoid...
This video is really well put together. You are hilarious when you intend to, and I loooove your personality, but ultimately I think you also made some very good, critical, points that many people who speak about incels do not care to make, points that really should be communicated to that community.  I'm subscribing immediately.
Wait youre trans!? You look cis! If you didnt say you were then I would never have even thought that you were trans.
Is that a trap? Am I in a trap? Did i get bamboozled? Fuuuuck.. Oh well
MY *WRISTS*
First vid I’ve ever seen of yours and I’m in love with you. PLEASE LET ME GET A SNIFF
Omg you’re trans?! You look GREAT!!!
I'm Fucking Dead , "A bread scientist" lol
first time  i see one of your vid and  love it SUBSCRIBED
As a woman and lifelong bisexual who has dated women, I immediately accepted you as a biological female. If you had not said you were trans I would never have known. Even now, I can't actually tell. All I can see is that you are a very beautiful woman.
Just found this channel and as a straight man, Your intellect and humor would attract me to you. And because of that I would accept the rest. A person is more than physical features and this video made me think even more.
so epic! kicking people who are already down is so based comrade!!!!! xDDDD!!!!1!!! incels are pathetic but I can already tell you're going to rail against people who are already as miserable as it gets, I doubt you're going to read this but I don't get why people don't understand that being an incel is a very lonely and miserable existence.
You're so great <3 I kinda thought you were transgender when I heard your voice, which is cute btw.. I'm trans too, so my radar / insecurities might make it that way :( but anyway you're really cool and tell stories really well! and smart
Yo is this a tranny?
im sorry, but incels don't have anything to do with men's rights groups and anti social justice groups and the idea of the "red pill" has nothing to do with incel groups but to do with the idea that modern third wave femenisum and social justice is inherently flawed and under any major scrutiny the claims by it fall apart, and that the solutions they suggest to the "non-problems" are either racist or will lead to an authoritarian government. But Incels DO effect some groups of MIGTOW and the "pickup artists" groups to some extent. Incel groups do exist and i harbor no sympathy for their paranoid claims. Since you did not take any time to provide evidence for your claim i  wont spend my day doing so either. If someone has some legitimate points i will happily discuss further with them below.
Ultra masculin baker?! What is he baking? Bricks?
I love your voice!
After watching a lot of mgtow and red pill content lately, my mind really needed this
Why is that PhilosophyTube talking in the background? Or am I wrong and is it just ContraPoints?
Thank you for this video. Your honesty and insight on the whole 4chan culture really hit home with me. I kind of raised myself in that den of negativity, and the rush you get from the affirmation of your deepest insecurities is alluring. I spent so much time there knowing how unhealthy it was for me, but I was addicted. Your video genuinely helped me reflect and accept why I did what I did for so long. I'm better now, but I still cling to some of those bigoted words and thoughts at times. I've been binging the rest of your videos ever since watching this one and you're honestly helping me a lot. Thank you.
Hooooo boyy, this was a fuckin wild ride. I searched incel, looking for cringe and ended up watching this full length documentary. You've made a new subscriber of me!
Please do some asmr with that skull lol I loved the tapping
What a way to start the video XD
My opinion of Incels: AHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAH!!!!!!!!!
"Volcel if you wouldn't bitches" made me literally laugh out loud.
How dare you degrade the adagio of Mendelssohn's String Quartet 6 by using it with that sentimental, self-pitying literary trash.
Ya'll need to calm down with that skull shape shit, I'll fuck your skull regardless of its shape.
I don’t get why they have to resign to being a virgin. Most probably *could* get laid if they weren’t so socially awkward.
Wo, nice channel!
Your speech reminds me of Audrey Hepburn.
"Bread-scientist" xD
Wow, I only watched this video ‘cause I fell asleep listening to Queen and woke up to you holding those old skull sizers to a fake skull with an 18th century wig on and was like “this looks like my cup of tea, what’s she doing?” And learned about some angry guys with 3 month old boners and internet access. And I love you. Honestly, you’ve got a great personality to you and I love it. Keep doing you because you are doing amazing. 💕
Did I defy the entire Incel theory by being a normal dude and marrying a woman who has more money than me?  I mean, if we divorce, she'll have to pay me alimony.  Does that mean I won?  Where's my prize?  btw, I hope we don't get divorced, I love my wife.
i like how this woman sounds, she sounds like she could beat the shit out of my in seconds xD
I generally avoid even scrolling to the cesspit of YouTube comments, but as a cisgender woman I must say... that you are truly a lady of thought and discernment! And also an altogether charming sense of theater. :)
That was an entertaining video thanks for making it. I've never seen your channel before but your video was recommended to me via YouTube algorithms. I found you fun, insightful, and charismatic. Your personality is a rich, textured, tapestry.  Your video moved me to tears.  Keep up the great work.
unrelated   im like completely entranced by you omg youre stunning
12:30 Who is this "Roosh Douche"? And I admit...the bread scientist joke made me laugh out loud. Contrapoints: 1, Roosh Douche: 0....what the hell...I'll give ContraPoints all the points.
This video was worth watching just for that bit at 12 mins
I've never looked at the Sea that way before... >///<
Can you be my vodka aunt??
Chad-circumference? Why not Chad-cumference? hmmm you missed a good one there.
imo the community space empowers a shift in dangerous thought patterns from isolated low self-esteem and mental illness to validated dogmas and lifestyles, lessening the individuals chance to seek help or self-improvement.  It’s like a depressive Greek chorus
Oh my God; I'm in love.
I just went to Roosh V's page...ew
I'm dying to give these guys Beautification Potion from Harry Potter. I'd offer it to them and tempt them with it, for a PRICE, like a freaking Disney villain. "Poor unfortunate souls." They'd drink it and be super hot and super desirable for a couple of hours, maybe a couple of days, and then realize they remain unsuccessful because their horrible personalities haven't changed! MWAHAHAHAHA!
a TRANSwoman is a woman who looks like she worships Satan
Chadpreet killed me
I’ve never heard incel forums be compared to a cult and that’s honestly genius. It makes so much sense that way. It’s exactly like how Scientology works, these people don’t automatically get into this red pill incel shit, it’s a slow process caused by years of lack of a sense of belonging, loneliness, or most likely simply getting into the wrong frame of mind.
I love the terms Chad and Feminoid, but to be serious realize feminazis are full on misandrist people. They are sexist to the core, and in the end feminism is about woman controlling woman and not accepting the choices they make unless or until they make the choices feminists demand of them. It is the opposite of freedom of though and freedom of choice. It is a toxic and evil ideology essentially since unlike Incels feminists and SJW's do try and ruin other people's lives, do try and control and take over institutions, etc. Essentially you are bullying Incels and then laughing about it. Normally we'd say that is dickish, but it is a woman so it is pussyish what they are doing. Means the same thing, but notice how you'll probably never hear that. Why is that since women can be among the most vindictive and unempathetic people you will ever meet, especially feminazi's.   That pic 6:45 is much more than a few millimeters. That is like an inch or two.   The reasoning behind Incel's as far as their rejection is due to the shallow picky nature of females. One dimension such as she won't date guys shorter than her is all it takes to dismiss him. It says something about the foul psychology of woman.   Fun fact: many woman HATE being around other woman. They like the company of guys and many are tomboys and have true Lady B's i.e. they are are not your prototypical sucktastic woman who manipulates, deceives and uses men.   Contrapoint: which type of woman are you? Do you like woman, or do you like guys and being around them? I don't mean sexually. I mean as friends and companions. If you say guys, that says something about woman in general. How they treat other people, especially fellow woman.
This stuff sounds so socialist!  D:
For the record, I had no clue you were trans until you mentioned it here. You had completely succeeding in passing.  And you definitely had a lot of food for thought. For all those thinking of going down the incel rabbit-hole, I'll just say that if a total dweeb like me can get laid at least occasionally, then so can you.
Neil Strauss was definitely an incel prior to his life as a pickup artist, and Roosh...fuck that guy
Wow I'm realy attracted to the ocean now....  (Thank you for that video and the shared stories!)
This is my first time to your channel and I actually didn't realize you were trans until you said so...just wanted to let you know that.
Question: How do Incels explain the income of Chads?
Interesting stuff. Victimization takes a different, masculine form. "Glass ceiling" except sorta more like a "vagina on the other side of a store window." .. I found when I was going through these feelings when I was younger that it was the lack of integrity in the attractive female I desired that made me feel like it was a state of bliss I would never get to have. In the end however, we are all free agents in this life, and should all be more loving and less lusting. Let's be real I mean even if you were the sexually desirable one, then you'd simply be propositioned for sex even when that didn't mean genuine feelings. So perhaps less is more in regards to being free from the sexually charged aspect of human social interaction.
Great video, but blaming incels for the horrible actions of people with B-Cluster personality disorders is pretty far out of line. Monsters like Elliot Rodger are attracted to communities that validate their criminal thinking errors, but they don't typically need any encouragement to act on them if they have a mind to. In his manifesto, Rodger was pretty vocal about how weak he thought the guys in these incel communities were. Blackpilled incels want to lay down and rot. That's not really congruent with narcissistic rage. Rodger couldn't wrap his head around passive acquiescence, because he had arrived at the conclusion that romantic rejection was a crime perpetrated against him by the entire world that he alone had the authority and power to appropriately punish. To an incel, rejection is a bitter, unavoidable pill to be swallowed and accepted. For some of them, that means opting out through suicide. To a malignant narcissist, it is an irreconcilable affront to their sense of worldly order; more akin to heresy than injustice. Acceptance is flatly not an option. They keep their ledger, they bide their time, and they get even. If suicide follows, it is only a means to avoid capture and imprisonment (that would be another affront to their power and authority).  Remember: correlation != causation. I think incels are embittered, self-pitying crybabies, but I don't believe their shitty rhetoric has the power to incite violence based on a meager handful of anecdotal evidence that can be much more coherently explained by abnormal psychology.
Lol, oh shit!  Im a chad!
27:11 after that it was all I could hear and it really messed with me
I'm pretty much Black Pill—maybe not quite as convinced, more like Dark Grey Pill, lol—in that I'm positive that my best years are behind me (I'm 26) and I will most likely never be in another relationship, let alone a happy, fulfilling one. I haven't had sex in almost 4 years (since college) and I'm worried if/when I do again, I will be terrible and anxious at it and sabotage whatever budding relationship I might have once again. Yet, I do not blame nor resent women for my situation, which I guess makes me not a true incel. No, women are right to avoid me and the fault is completely my own. Not because of my skull shape or my body or anything, but simply because of my shitty, asocial, boring, lazy, borderline autistic personality. Theoretically, you can shape and improve your personality, but I won't. Chronic depression and my inherent lack of discipline have ensured that I will never change. And even if believing otherwise is a prerequisite for improvement, it will never be enough and that's why I will remain forever alone.  But this was an interesting and entertaining video. First time watching; you are good at what you do.   Also, for what it's worth, as a (mostly) straight guy, I think you are very pretty and alluring. <3
Its not like girls dont work fucking hard to look good hello....why cant they put some effort in? You think i woke up with my liner tatted on and my hair on point am i beyonce, gtfo they are so delusional it isnt even funny please cry more 🍿
MGTOW is the cure for incels.  Their real problem is the crazy notion of no woman in their lives = no happiness.  MGTOW encourages men to look inward for happiness. Sex, romance and companionship are all great but not neccessary for a happy life. Other advice like "clean your room" is condascending. Noone begins their dating life deep in some dark incel forum they wind up there possibly having followed the basic advice anyone would give. The great thing about going your own way is that it will make you more fullfilled and that will makd you more desirable too, however it doesnt crumble if you still cant get laid bdcause that is not the goal at all.
Skull measuring ASMR is my new thing now, where can I find more of it?
I literally couldn't tell you were trans, girl!!! You pass SO well! Good luck on FFS!
I'm really glad I found your channel. You explain things very well.
First time viewer: Goddammit I was like 95% sure you were a woman. I'd have hit it lmao
THE MANOSPHERE EXISTS BECAUSE ROCK AND ROLL IS DEAD. FINALLY IT ALL MAKES SENSE
9:32 before this video, I only ever heard hypergamy used in the context of sugaring lol
I'M SO GLAD THAT YOU SAID YOU'RE STILL ATTRACTED TO WOMEN CUZ I FIND YOU SUPER ATTRACTIVE AHHHHHHH <3 <3 <3 <3
Literally just found your channel for the first time. You are awesome, subscribed. That is all. =D
Literally that opening paragraph is why none of these freaks will ever get laid.
Okay, this is epic.                           -Ben Shapiro
This is by far the best analysis of incels I've ever seen. It's equal parts education and empathy, and I think that's really necessary when dealing with people who are mentally ill.
I thought the main thing that made me unreceptive to incel shit was that I realize that it's my own standards (mainly ideological) that prevent me from being in a relationship. But this video made me think that maybe the main thing is actually my vanity.
When i see incels on the level where they find a way to degrade each and every... feeeeeemoid... i always get reminded of a piece of fatherly advice i got recently: "A "whore" is someone who fucks anyone else but not you"
That was surprisingly excellent.
You had to make me vomit at first. Women like men who aren't assholes. You can have any kind of face or body; if you aren't an asshole, women will find you attractive. I have met many great-looking men who were assholes and they repulsed me. I don't care if you're skinny or fat, disabled or able-bodied, blonde or brunette, tall or short, trans or cis ;if you're a man and I love your personality, I will love your body. I am not saying that I have no physical demands but they are very wide(Am not romantically attracted to women, but I hope that at least some men feel the same about women)Also these Incels only want women with model looks and popularity. There are many kinds of women, guys.
"The chads with the fuckable skulls" we talkin about deepthroat now? (Jokes aside, good video)
You're the best.
if the bone structure thing was true then trans men (generally small-boned, short, often pear-shaped, and with the very smallest dicks) would never get laid.  spoiler alert: we can and do get laid
Incels vs Modern Feminists Who would win?
OMG 12:20 wtaf
An overwhelming surplus of diggity A.k.a, the winning question😂
I’ve never been so aroused by a body...of water.
Excellent video, and I want more "FEEEEEEEMOOOOOOOOOIDS".
This whole "incelosphere" sounds awfully sociopathic...i mean, im no rocket surgeon, and all  "Mom the shit out of them" awesome   PS: i truly admire how honest you are. Its really inspiring. Being involved in a program of AA (sigh, alcoholics anonymous) honesty is really the crux of recovery...:)
You are an amazing woman and you did a fantastic job on this video!
I always come back to the part where you describe catastrophizing. I've done this before and I never noticed it. It just helps me put things in perspective to hear it broken down like that. So thanks.
Oh My I am so happy to know this channel exists! It satisfies both my deep need for philosophical discourse and my love of sparkly things. Thank you for telling the truth you amazing human. Also: "masochistic epistemology: whatever hurts is  true."  - THIS.
natalie ur such a queen
I really like your videos. I do. But... I've made a mistake today. I had some wine left from dinner, and so I had it next to me watching this. I just had my first sip of wine fueled only by sadness, disgust and depression. And, in a horrible and self destructive way, it was too... too soothing. I know that it is really important to talk about these topics, and I am very grateful you navigate, sail and chart waters of the internet for us that are... dangerous. But... can we have something nice? Maybe why love feels so wonderful? Or analysing a promising social movement? Or just some pictures of young people with hope sparkling in their eyes?
"justsmatch" sounds like a word straight out of 1984
Lmao I only watched this to figure out what exactly an incel was but you’re funny af girl
What the fuck is up with this recommended bar throwing insanely good quality, interesting videos at me lately. Who hacked Youtube to stop suggesting jake paul?
"At least these pricks care enough about my pussy, to be an asshole about my dick" 20:50 . It's really hard to describe how I feel about this sentence. If you look at this sentence without thinking about it, it sounds like some transgender/self-hate/meme outcry, but its substance is completely rational. And that makes me love you even more.
You are a gorgeous goddess every day.
Your voice is obviously a hybrid of Jordan Peterson and <whoever you want> Clean your room, bucko!
I think you should revisit the idea that "still in man-mood, therefore 4chan" is antithetical to femaleness. Some of my favorite females laugh at fart-jokes and act pretty male, they are positive to porn, positive to using their female powers of seduction for personal purposes while being honest about it, outspoken, inquisitive and value a good sense of humor.  You have a fantastic sense of humor CP, i laugh out loud pretty often watching your videos, hopefully for the right reasons. Do a video on tomboyness and the femininity in being "one of the guys" please.
My man is a bread scientist
everyone part of the red pill bullshit make me simultaneously laugh and cry about how our world is. also makes me glad i’m gay lol
what a well put together and interesting video. Bravo.
"We need sexual marxism" haha. Whoever wrote that is pretty funny, no matter the amt of pussy he gets.
Also: “At least these pricks care enough enough about my pussy to be an asshole about my dick” is the best line uttered since “Rosebud.”
Well, that's an interesting channel that randomly popped on my suggestion. Waddya know, sometimes, youtube algorithms actually have good ideas. There were A LOT of thoughts going on in my mind as the video rolled so I want to make a comment, but there was so much stuff, I don't know what to make it about x)  Well first of all, thanks for that insight on the incel world. I'm TECHNICALLY part of their clan, though I've never set a cyber foot on their forums and don't intend to, as while I can relate to their plight, I absolutely do not relate to the way they handle it. Does that make me a techcel? Hmmmmm.... Anyway, it was really interesting to get a deeper view of what they think and how they think. And the part on Tinder from your unique perspective was cool. I mean, it wasn't anything I didn't already know, but it was cool getting a testimony on both sides from one same person.  On that note, it was also great to have someone who's actually 4chan savvy criticize what goes on there. I mean, most of the time, we only get outsiders who don't "get it" and are horrified by stuff that is designed with the specific purpose of horrifying them, and insiders who live in that all-deprecating humour and thus see nothing wrong with it. It's nice to see someone who understand what's going on, who gets the joke, but also understands how it breeds bad mental habits.  Also, as you brought up the question of performance for transgenders, as well as the whole compliments vs truth thing, don't know if you care for more opinions by now, but clearly you can handle it, so here's the blind take of a straight male nerd randomly stumbling on your channel: The audio is a bit off, I figured what whas going on the instant you opened your mouth, but the visuals are top notch ;)  Finally, and that last point definitely feels like "none of my business", but I still feel the need to adress it: You mentioned your upcoming operation, and I watched earlier this day a documentary on three trans-women who deeply regretted going through the operation, and their main point was that the feeling of not belonging was not lodged in their genitals but in their brains, and that surgery didn't change that, and made everything else more complicated. Simply watching one of your videos tells me that you know where you stand, who you are, what you want, so I'm sure you don't need reminders from randoms like me. But still, I saw that video earlier, now yours, it felt like I should at least mention it.   Either way, Imma keep watching your videos, because regardless of your genitalia, your brain is one I want to hear more from. Oh, and now because of you I'm craving for a good storm to happen outside my window...
class act. subscrablesed
I applaud your will to honestly understand people who think differently. The key to tolerance is getting over the fear and anger and trying to empathize.   I also love it when you tear down haters and hypocrites with logic and facts. Keep doing you, girl. We need more folks with your honesty and critical thinking skills. Remember- I’m lazy and depend on folks like you. :)
WHY AM I ONLY SEEING THIS CHANNEL NOW???? THIS IS AMAZING YOU ARE AMAZING
...I can never look at the ocean the same way again.
Fun fact: "fin" means "nice" in Norwegian.  Nice.
I thought it was just a meme...oh wait it still is.
OMG I just fell into brainlove with you :D:D:D
Very interesting indeed to watch this as over thirty year old male to female trans person.  But wow, this incel thing is insulting to both cis men and cis women. Neither are the sterotype these incels suggest. 24:45 Okay probably better I didn't spend time on the Internet back then. I still get mistaken for a guy some times even today but I have almost never gotten negative feedback for using women's toilet. Possibly because I live in Finland and I usually party in Helsinki which is very open minded. But that sort of feedback might have been really painful for my very shy past self.   Oh and by the way, I thought you already had the surgery to adjust your facial bone structure. You obviously don't need it quite critically as I. :'D
Also, I can't think of ONE man in my entire circle of friends that prefers "Stacys" over "Beckys".
Stumbled upon this and I never knew I needed this in my life, thank you? 💕
I'm perfectly fine with my bones. I'm just a lazy slob.
You are so beautiful and funny! Subscribed :)
So what you're saying here is that incels are like the male equivalent of feminists?
Penis is not a bone. 10+ inch open all doors no matter the bone structure. Trust me!
“Churning our murderers faster than a Marvel’s Avenger movie” 😂😔
I have no clue why I'm watching this, but thanks for being background noise while I do my book report. 10/10 video, Hail Satan.
Had a fuckin' PragerU ad on this video.  What a shame.
You're more feminine then most women, no surgery gives that. Love your channel.
Also, the internet is a trashfire, a trashfire that none of us can voluntarily leave for some reason. Enough said. /discussion
Damn girl, much learned. Thanks!
There is one reason, and one reason only in which I will never in a million years believe that some of you lonelier cats out there can't find a girlfriend. That one reason is: SmokerTheJoker and JesKay. Two different YouTube channels, a boyfriend and a girlfriend. Seriously. Look them up, they are a real, I shit you not, true to life couple. This guy has a girl eating fucking cat food and worms. The guy also looks like sasquatch while the girl is pretty attractive. I'm not even kidding, go look them up. After you do, take a long look at the mirror and slap your goddamn self for letting that guy get a girlfriend while you, most likely a perfectly normal guy who's probably also fairly intelligent (which many women find attractive, by the way), never did just because you were to damn insecure about yourself.  On a more personal note, the problem for me is learning how to get **over** women once they fuck me over, but that's a completely different topic.
Aaaaaand you just won a new suscriber.
I want to meet the first chad - that one guy who fucked with someone so much that he used his name to coin the phrase.
I’m kinda curious what would happen if I posted my picture on TTTT. I’m a cis woman who looks pretty feminine, ut I bet they would still find stuff that makes me a man. Hmmm.
what a majestic video
Good job.
5:30 subscribed lmfao!!!! So surprised I haven’t seen this YouTube channel before! Happy to have found it 😂
They can look in the mirror; but have they actually looked inside themselves and examined what they are like? They seem to have a lot of insecurities and self-hate which they project on others. I sincerely hope people like them get help and lots of it.  Edit-I get what you mean about how people purposely look at toxic things that makes you self loathing, etc....which why I am becoming really really picky about everything to avoid that crap. Unfortunately it is everywhere and makes it hard and sometimes I can't keep myself quite or just ignore it and just get really angry. A part of me thinks if people don't say or do anything, things will never change. Truth is, what I say probably won't matter at best as a lot of people won't listen or want to think logically/critically or make things worst.   They really do need to see a therapist (lets face it, at that point, it is beyond just logging off and going outside for a bit. As you said, thoughts will still plague your mind); but can't force people to get help and how to make better choices for everyone's sake. All they seem to do is make themselves and everyone around miserable as they constantly bask in that hateful and toxic environment. You know what they say, misery loves company.  By the way, great video. This is the first video I have seen of yours and I actually enjoyed it a lot. It was both hilarious and insightful. Balance of seriousness and humor which is good.
Okay. The French baroque outfit plus the posh RP is amazingly hilarious.
I hope Lady Foppington becomes a main character in the ContraPoints Cinematic Universe.
𝓑𝓻𝓮𝓪𝓭  𝓢𝓬𝓲𝓮𝓷𝓽𝓲𝓼𝓽
I'm sorry we stan?????? A fucking queen?????? What the fuck??????
STOP TURNING ME ON WITH THE EROTICISM OF NATURE, WOMAN!!! It's not like the ocean or rainforest would ever think of dating me, anyway :'(
Be nice if you provided some counter-arguments to some of the less kooky claims made in the manosphere. Such as with hypergamy for example which has been studied in both humans and non-humans. Or how weakness appears to be a universally undesirable in men. Women's own partner preferences drive masculinity, including the toxic kind.  The relationship status of men  with physical disabilities or mental health problems (compared to women in the same boat) is evidence for how repellent weakness is in males. Could provide links but it’d be a waste of time here.   Feminists/progressives generally start from the position that ‘offensive’ views are  mocked and individuals attacked instead of argued with.  I consider an authoritarian leaning movement intent of shutting down  dissent more dangerous in the long term than a few rogue losers on reddit.
Bitch, you look FABULOUS. I couldn’t even tell you were a man. There was a slight doubt in me for a minute, but the rest screamed LOOK AT THAT SEXY BITCH. Honestly wish I could do makeup like you.
So sad. Just be a fucking HUMAN BEING?!?!?!!!!!?! For fucks sake. These people are sad.
what is the song from 22:21?
LOL, Gorgeous Goddess, you have absolutely nothing to worry about as far as people on the internet talking crap on 4Chan. This is the very first video I've seen from you, and you are and look 100% feminine and womanly. As a woman who loves women, I was all like, "Daaaaaaaang, she's hot af, I wonder what her Facebook is." XD  You look like the owner of a very glitzy and classy lounge/1980's-hybrid-Rococo-era shop or something with a very old-school, sultry voice. Also, your channel is one of those creme' a la creme channel on youtube. Subscribed. :p
Just stumbled into your videos. I am currently living for your aesthetic.
The fuck did I just walk in on
This guy is like a transcel.
Not a second of my life was wasted watching this, quality content brah
Everybody knows this woman is a man, right?
The end of the video, when you speak of the beauty of the "little things" in life, made me fucking cry for realsies, some fucking big fish level tears
“Leave my buns alone, you savages!” 😂♥️
Touche, Contra, Touche. I had to think about foul tasting food in order to avoid thoughts of how a woman feels. So I could get through your video.
1.6k incels were scared because they got hope from this video
I LOOOOOOOVE the Nanny Fine voice @ 17:26!
Oh wow I really enjoyed watching your video! you are great and hilarious! and at 5:30 you look fucking amazing!!!
One day. One day I will move beyond bread science and ascend.
"bread scientist" 😂 this can't be real
9:55  Yeah that's communism lol. Good to know red pill assholes are still hypocrites. At least they do not VOTE for commies like most blue pill assholes...?  I dunno, I've been overdosing on my gunmetal gray pill of libertarian beliefs since high school, meh.
8:05-8:25  Are hispanics not on an Incel's radar or something? lol
You are gorgeuous. I didn´t know you before, it´s the first video of you I am watching and I was suprised when you said you were trans. You are a beautiful woman. So please don´t ever go back to those sites, you deserve better!  And I am not trans, so please don´t think I am just writing this because I know what you went through. I am just a cis bisexual woman. And I looked at you and just thought: damn she is beautiful and hot, wish I could know her in rl. Listen only to all those who adore you, they are right. Every compliment is the truth.
hey i used to be a man who dated women who is now a woman who dates men too! c:
I wanna go back in time and show the nerds this post so they dont invent the computer Edit: 1st time viewer and knew you were a dude before you mentioning it. I have a...very good observation sense. But it was interesting to hear your end as a T
This is so unrelated but I love when she starts to laugh at what she's saying, it's so cute, I'm sorry but ahhh 😆
I love u so much contra
New comment: the bit about industrious cuckboy thing makes me think that maybe they took a bunch of acid, watched The First Wives Club, and saw it as gender flipped while tripping.  The bread baking thing makes me feel very sorry for Roosh V until I remember that he's a confessed rapist.  I'll admit, the bone structure thing reminds me of my own issues with weight. I don't want to sympathize and empathize with them, because they'd never do the same for me, but I do.
First time I've ever seen your videos and this is some good content.
Great stuff in general         I seriously can't stop looking at the mannequin heads    Also you shouldn't worry about looking to masculine, you look great and I honestly didn't even think you would be trans until you said something
i will always return to the embrace of the sea, she is my girlfriend
Ok, this is really smart. Loving it
1 minute in and my peepee already hard
The Internet is straight up fuckin wild.
To avoid a M E G A   C R I N G E  of the reading at the beginning of the video,  I replaced every black blank with "respect". (I am still shaking with anger)
P I t y. S e x
How many brothers fell victim to the that's? Rest in peace young nigga I'ma keep you with my thoughts. Be a lie if I told you that things had gotten better, my nigga I'm a virgin forever, but I fight on.
This is amazing. I haven't signed in to my account in months but I did so just to subscribe. Thanks!
New to your channel. "Knowing Better" brought me here. I love every video and you are a treasure.
Omg, Contra. I haven’t watched your videos in several months, and I must say, your content quality is amazing right now! I’ve always loved your videos, but you are glowing with confidence and happiness now. I love it!! And you!!
Untill you mentioned it I'd never have guess you weren't born a woman. Thank you for the interesting video! Especially the last part was very strong, and I hope it helps some people leave their negative spirals.
Why does the "Stacy" resemble a White chick trying to look Black, booty injections, lip injections, & fake dark skin? "Natural curvy body"....lol Don't even get me started on the "Chod", these all seem to have racial undertones, I wouldn't be surprised. As a Black man, I'm not saying all "incels" are white dudes, but this seems connected to allot of underlining elements that have historically gone hand in hand with misogyny in our society.                  That skull measuring bit....5:30. christ......  JESUS... I finished watching the video, I was right, before I even finished this.
Please don’t waste your money on that stupid fucking head surgery. I’ve been watching your videos since the Nykytyne2 era, and even then you looked like a chick. Granted, a miserable, depressive, alcoholic, chick with abysmal fashion sense, but a chick nonetheless. (Are people still saying chick, or is it more PC to say broad or dame?) Anyway, I have to say I like you much better this way. You seem so much happier and more comfortable, like you’re enjoying life and having a lot of fun making videos, so good for you. Back to my original point, there are plenty of people with physical features that don’t necessarily reflect traditional masculinity or femininity. Tupac Shakur is a good example of this; he had a strong facial bone structure, but his eyes and lips were, from an evolutionary standpoint, quite feminine. So please don’t worry too much about your noggin; no normal person outside the internet is going to give a fuck. They’re far more likely to notice that you’re eleven feet tall. (Sorry, couldn’t resist). And for anyone saying a woman can’t be attractive or feminine with a big head, I guess you’ve never heard of Rihanna. She has a dome the size of a small planet, and I would still knock that pussy into next week.
Liked for the inherent eroticism of the sea. Finally, someone who wont judge me for masturbating into the ocean
Damn dude. Shits rough out there for everyone.
Thanks ContraPoints, as a potential incel full of hate, I needed this video.
You are brilliant! I'm not an incel but I do have some masochistic tendencies about my work as a writer, reason I don't write anymore, so I will take this advice and try to stop that. Love you <3 Keep the good work!
I absolutely love this!
ayye that's my first vid I'm watching from your channel and you are so beautiful and your voice is so Incredible soft and relaxing. also I really liked that you were so serious about this topic and kept it so real.
To be honest , I never thought I would find someone that has your way of reasoning on youtube . It's refreshing to find someone whose main objective is to try to explain things rather than insult those who they disagree . Also I would have never thought there could be a paragon between what trans people have gone through and incels . Thank's for the amazing videos . Keep the good work :*
16:12  Fucking died. Awesome video.
You are hilarious and you got a new sub. Good work!
It's just silly how entertaining you are <3
Your voice is awesome, lol. It reminds me of the Dark Elf voice actress from Oblivion.
I am here because Tim Pool mentioned you and my interest was piqued.   I loved the editing, the outfits, the humour, the music, the research, the humbleness, the title fonts.  I think putting the cause of the shortcomings of your life outside you, is weak and akin to not growing up.  It really is a bitter movement wallowing in self hatred. I think their masculine and feminine aspects need serious healing. Can't do that until one is willing to face the hatred of their parental figures and own the grief of childhood wounding. (Broken heart, suppression, abuse, emasculation, shame etc.).  I love the affirmation of sexuality as the source of creativity .  I think feminism is for "women", and that is ok. I feel that "men" of these incel groups need to stop looking for metaphorical wombs to climb back into. Own the hurt and rejection, feel the hurt and make different decisions instead of blaming others. People this critical of others are this critical of themselves, perpetual circle of pain including negative pleasure. So much pain in their world, so sad.  The wolf you feed.
"block websites that tell you facts about yourself that you dislike!" yeah, because burying your head in the sand from reality does anything but forces you to live a lie.
Well I learned something new and disturbing. Never heard of incels. I don’t know why this came across my recommended. I’m heading to your channel to see what else I can learn.
Your rainstorm description made me very uncomfortable at work
Learn to draw/write. Create your own universe that you enjoy being in. One day someone will come along and find that they love what you've built.
I'd put them in a body of an ugly woman, to realize that it works both ways, maybe even worse in woman's case.
Love the ending. I’ve never seen you before this video, but I thought you were a woman. The propensity at which incels gravitate towards phrenology has always creeped me out, however you do give some credence to the ideology as a transformative person, vis-a-vis the tinder example you provide. You’re perspective does present an interesting example of the same issues incels have, but I appreciate your ability to know internalizing these ideologies is only harmful and dangerous. This comments probably all over the place but you got good points and I’m glad you want to help these people that seem so loathsome.
Wow contrapoints, I really really like you! Glad I found your channel
I didn't know what to think when I saw this in my recommended but damn am I glad I clicked now. You're hilarious, the editing is on point, your voice is nice to listen to, and you come across as a very intelligent person. Also you're pretty, and I love the lighting!! 💕 Earned a sub.
Anyone know any good sea pr0n websites?
"At least these pricks care enough about my pussy to be an asshole about my dick."  Jesus fucking  Christ thank you for putting me in the awkward position of wanting to leave an awesome complement for that observation while simultaneously feeling completely inadequate.
this is very informative. I'm really not fond of SJW or super leftist people, but those MGTOW Trump people are worse and that "bread scientist" with the huge over-compensating beard seems like the absolute worst, but in a sad way kind of.
😍🙃
"ultra-masculine baker i mean bread scientist" i'm dying. and that little chuckle at the end.
wow first contrapoints video i've ever watched, i loved it. as a trans person it was so refreshing to see such entertaining and informing content that's made by another trans person
Alright algorithm, I shouldn't have doubted you.
"Elliot Rodgers was an Immanently bangable twink" -ContraPoints 2018
You're amazing. Subscribed.
Roosh: women shouldn't get jobs. They need to cook. Go make me a sanwich.(Basically using cooking to demean women and implying thats all we can do) Roosh after he realizes no woman will ever cook for him again after he moves out of his moms house because he's fucking moronic dickhead: Cooking is a manly science
"The manosphere exists because rock and roll is dead."    And so am I.
If it helps your insecurities at all (which coming from a cis girl it might not), but I couldn't tell you are a trans women at all until you mentioned it. Even then I still struggle to see it. I honestly think you are gorgeous. Everything about your style is pure goals.
I've never seen any of your videos before, and this is so well-written and well-produced.  Instant subscription.
Is Thanos a Chad?
A friend of mine in high school had (has?) a thing for boys with skinny wrists. Can you have a more wristcel-friendly kink?
Chad: "Has never heard a song in his life"  Yeah, because nothing gets a girl going like being completely uncultured and boring for no reason
look at that fucking sexy bread machine
Easy solution to ineldom: Become rich Eg. TRUMP
why are they all so obsessed about heads????????? im a cis woman and my head is ginormous????whats the point in headisze jfcsff
Wow. Great advice. Totally. You're very rational, and I love the way you reasonably address this stuff. You're brave for revealing certain insecurities, without getting dramatic like the stereotypical  "incels" portrayed here. I've never even heard of this term haha. I never realized the potential number of dudes that would likely be hating me because I was simply born with a vag! No shit! Well, I invite any "incels" to come this way if you need an ego boost. I love all people, and welcome penises of all shapes and sizes equally 😉 I am not a crazy feminist, and while I have opinions, like anyone, I judge NO ONE.  Hope this makes someone's day 💋💕
Why the F is this crap even in my recommendation... I have zero interest in the topic and have no idea what this is even about :/
WHATTTT!? You don't need surgery! You're fucking beautiful! You look hot in all the videos and pics without the makeup and dress  and stuff. But you have to be happy with you, 1st and foremost.  So if that makes you feel better about yourself, then bone shave away, I guess. lol. And you DO NOT  look like no fucking man in a dress by the way! I'm being %100 honest with you. Scouts honor ✌💋
Wow I literally dream of having a man that would be comfortable being a woman (or whatever he feels like, really) who still likes women (obviously, or he wouldn't be my dream man..in my dreams) 😁 You ROCK
Love it
Wow, Natalie, you're really milking that stock footage of the seaside.
This whole ''incels'' thing just made me want to throw up. But you are gorgeous as always!
This video is a masterpiece
This channel is so fucking good. Wow. I didn't expect to click on this video and be blown away by gorgeous visuals, awsome production, and such a witty analysis
yo i love this bitch
If there's such a thing as an involuntary celibate (incel), is there such a thing as a voluntary celebate? A volcel? Because if there is, I am one.
This video is incredible. You're incredible.
this is coool
where am I.. who are you.. this does not look like the corner of the internet I was looking for But I am indeed intrigued
Wow. I love your depth and humor. I am totally in awe of your ability to empathize and understand these men - as well as understand and live as woman. I am first time viewer. Definitely a fan. 💞 Go Girl!
I appreciate your choice in music.  Especially the Chopin.
She's so hot omg
5th Base: A N A L
I'm not an incel, but you really made me think about myself a bit more. Thank you.
Um where are your millions of subscribers
I don't know why but I could immediately tell you were trand. It's weird. You look like a woman, but there's still something off. Doesn't really matter, you're still kinda hot.
Speaking of rock n roll, I wonder if Natalie still plays guitar.
I had to pause the video because I was laughing so hard at "Chadpreet", fucking hilarious
this is my first contrapoints video and I can say that I am thoroughly impressed.
what a stacy
My ftm friend is very much like that too. Very much thinks we are lying/blowing smoke up his ass about how good he looks.
The TERF at 19min made me shoot water out my nose
*pulls cuff over wrist*
bruh, not wanting to knock your vid too much but you mispronounced the word femoid, but don't worry I'm a fluent speaker of Incelese. It's pronounced with a short breathy "eh" sound like the one in "th*e*n".
Stumbled upon this channel good stuff! Btw you have a very soothing voice you may have a career in ASMR haha
This was very insightful, thankyou
I loved *all* of this but your moment with Abigail threatened the already fragile detante between my lungs, my brain and.... you know what? I am still too sick to finish this ambitiously constructed compliment.  I almost coughed my guts up laughing. Like me?
You're crazy lol
I love this so much.
Wait. So I was trapped by this trap until 17:30. I need to clean my trandar
Gather 'round while I sing you of Wernher von Braun A man whose allegiance Is ruled by expedience Call him a Nazi, he won't even frown "Nazi, Schmazi!" says Wernher von Braun  Don't say that he's hypocritical Say rather that he's apolitical "Once the rockets are up, who cares where they come down? That's not my department!" says Wernher von Braun  Some have harsh words for this man of renown But some think our attitude Should be one of gratitude Like the widows and cripples in old London town Who owe their large pensions to Wernher von Braun
I'm an opossum and I never feel lonely because I have all this sweet, delicious trash.   (Also, this was super insightful/disturbing)
Wait..,..,..,.. sometimes you sound like the female dark elf voice actor from Oblivion. A gift
Now I need a porn of somebody being enveloped by the ocean.  Pulled into the black darkness and slowly crushed by the pressure of the deep.
I rewatch this everytime I start catastrophising.
I love how open you are open about your transition. The fuckhole comment killed me! You earned a new subscribor and fan!
I love the "it's my wrists, not my 'shitty' personality, literal sub-80 IQ dudes still get laid with nothing to talk about" argument. Yeah, maybe that guy is sub-80 IQ...sure.   But he has a personality, probably not as shitty and 'superior', and might be attractive. So between looks and acceptable personality versus shitty looks and personality, yeah, you'll lose! But assuming that looks are unalterable (but seriously, dress better, wash, work out a bit, lose that dorito and pizza fat), the one thing you have a ton of control over is your personality, and expressing anger or distrust because you feel entitled to dat ass is the quickest way to rule yourself out.   It's really not THAT difficult. If you want a woman who is "10/10" for looks, you have to know looks likely matter to her, it is at least a part of her priorities, so she'll have higher standards for looks (not always, but often, especially if they're fit and healthy for example, fitness will be something she'd want in a partner), but that's always who these typically 16 year old kids who don't do anything but bitch about "normies" and reinforcing negativity to each other. Ugh.
If you aren't getting constant comments about how great your wardrobe is, that is a shame. That compliment was meant to offset the inherent cringe of the topic of incels.
2 mins in and I'm already subscribed - we love a good brain on the Internet
Wow I had no clue she was trans.Thats cool. Edit: I’m a woman and I got a BIG ASS head. The “manly man” head is just not a thing
"CHANGS" - BWAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHA!!!
"The inherent eroticism of the sea."  That earned a subscriber, Lmao.
I didnt even notice you were a man tbh. You look good
I almost threw up watching this video. Why would anyone think like this?!
Is it just me or does the "beta" Stacy look a lot more attractive than the alpha one? I don't know what incels want with Stacy-type women. I personally detest those.
Holy hell, Chapters 3 and 4 did a lot for me in terms of my self-image. I’m a closeted trans woman and the comparisons made in this video helps me understand a LOT more about both things. Genuinely, thank-you for this.
holy fuck, you're actually funny af god damn haha "This is a really vulnerable moment for me!" jesus
I love you
So... incels are the modern equivalent to 18th and 19th century anthropologists? Got it!
Thank you for making this video. For a few reasons. I've never been an incel, but recognizing "catastrophizing" in my own behaviour... Wow, I'd never been able to so clearly see this issue "from the outside". The "late for work" example is something I do literally all the time. And when it comes to my dating prospects (and lack thereof), I always have the urge to dismiss my own efforts to improve my life (IRL social clubs, trying to get more fit, working on my fashion skills and outward presentation, etc.), and I think a lot of people get caught in this trap -- "I tried once, and it didn't work, so I should stop trying". Something about your video has helped me see the fallacy in that line of thinking; making the huge mental leaps into the Irrational Dimension. So... Thanks. Genuinely. This just sorta showed up on my Autoplay, and I'm glad it did.  PS, I think you also helped improve my perception of trans women a little. It was interesting getting the insight into what it's like to be you; some of the failings of confidence you've had to struggle through. You present very confidently, both as a women and a commentator. You have overcome larger barriers than what I presently face - and that's just super inspiring. I think it's easy to cognitively distance oneself from LGBTQ+ people and be all, "They have a different set of issues than I, they won't have much to say that relates directly to me." But confidence is a universal concept. Anxiety and depression are things most people will have to face off with in their lives. I can relate to you on those points; we share the "human experience", as it were. So yeah... In many ways, thank you for your perspective in this video. It's doing society a good.
I dunno what I wanna fuck more now. The Sea or a thunderstorm
This was a great video and I really appreciate the amount of detail you went into regarding research. I look forward to watching more of your videos.
This was a really great video! Although I struggle with a lot of anxieties about being forever alone and never being in a caring relationship, I don't claim to be an incel (for obvious reasons, but also cause I blame myself for being frumpy and unattractive, I don't blame women for it). I really appreciate this take on the subject, particularly the black pill. Maybe our own thoughts make things worse off than they actually are,  maybe neglect and rejection is hard to deal with but we all know that it's wrong to project those feelings of inadequacy by blaming the world at large. There are definitely things that incels do that  can't be justified, ( just because you can't find a girl who likes you doesn't mean you should hate them) But a lot of it stems from a place of self loathing and frustration. Not everybody wants sex, some  just want to belong and feel wanted. That's a real human need.  If the creator of this video ever sees this comment, I wanna say that the points they made were very well put together and that I really appreciate that they took both sides of the argument cause loneliness and insecurity can really mess with how somebody thinks. A lot of the things you said really struck a chord.  It was entertaining and very well written, and it makes me wanna swim in the ocean.
i cant believe i ignored this masterpiece in my recommended for so long......... im speechless
Goddammit, I'm not a currycel am I?    Like my pfp? It's a skull :D
I AM NOT ONLY A BREAD SCIENTIST BUT ALSO A SPAGHETTI SCIENTIST! Oh and all the other sciencie things i do in my kitch... i mean lab. 👩‍🔬👩‍🍳
Thank you for this incredibly informative and entertaining video.  I've never seen myself as an incel, but as I watched the video, I have realized that I have partaken in a lot of the same self-harming ideologies you describe. Instead of directing any hatred towards women, though, it has always been toward myself instead, which I'm starting to realize isn't much better. I've left hateful comments about myself in various threads. I've experienced catastrophizing - which I never learned about before this video - in many ways, including through ideas about romance (take 6-9 out of your list, and that sums up perfectly how I've felt about relationships for the past few years). Even when I have tried improving the parts of me that I dislike, it felt like I was lying to myself about having hope for the future. The possibility that I could be a couple steps away from turning into a "black-pill" incel is starkly palpable now, and it genuinely frightens me.
Don't take this the wrong way, but I suspected something was up when I started watching the video; however, you definitely do a great job of hiding the fact that you are trans--not that it's important, just off-putting when you first start watching the video. I think you sum it up pretty well when you talk about Tinder. The fact that you and other women would probably prefer a "firing squad of dicks" rather than radio silence. It really is hard to watch people in certain social circles seem to get "tons of puss" when you are experiencing death-levels of nothingness. I would absolutely love to get matches upon matches of women on Tinder, but I am among the less fortunate that weren't gifted with photogenic qualities. What that really means is that, rather than wallowing in self-hatred and thinking that everyone and their mother thinks I'm not worthy of performing an act intended for reproduction, simply for pleasure, I should try other means of interaction that are less photo-involved. Hell, at least I'm not mute and I can talk to a blind girl that wouldn't care about my looks.  Great video. Well-researched and it seems like you really have a grasp on why incels are flawed.
Fuck, I'll never be a brad scientist 😔
how ironic is it that the incel movement was created by a woman, a bi woman no less, and yet is now perpetuated by het men
I used to like roast beef...
1.6k incels downvoted this, wtf. anyway, this video is so thorough and so well-researched...I'm terrified and enthralled. thank  you for your hard work!
Wait, YOU'RE LOCAL?? I will resist playing 6 Degrees of Queer Separation.
The pseudoscience involved in this community is crazy!
I think the "Red Pill" concept has many different meanings. The meaning derived by the incel described by Crontra is wrong I think, as it's a manipulation from the "waking up from the dream" concept described the matrix. Which, I think the vast majority of people who use it in their lexicon actually follow.   I'm sure everyone knows that... Sooo. Cool video!!
Bumble might be a better match for you.
I wish I was as beautiful as you and I’m not even trans. You’re an inspiration to all trans women out there, I’m almost sure of it. You are flawless and I can’t believe ove just discovered your content <3
Great video!!
I love your videos!  Great topics and such calming lighting!! <3
Imagine how a woman feels being treated like an object necessary for a man’s survival and nothing else.
I'm not sure if i missed it in your video, but a large contributing factor to incels, i believe, having different facial bone structures, sour attitudes towards women (and life in general) etc.. can be attributed to major depression. Listening to Robert Sapolsky's stanford lecture on major depression shines light many incel related issues. Check it out if you have time
You look gorgeous girl. It was very strong of you to come out about your transition.. And fuck the assholes who keep asking about the dick.
I bake my own bread
Not even halfway  and the only thing i can say is... holy shit. I don't even
Phucking phrenology. That's still a thing?
Your interpretation goes quite a bit off the rails in the latter half, especially in regards to trans women. You are being dishonest and unkind to some potential transitioners if you think that all AMAB people of all ages can transition successfully and fully. As silly as some of the "skull" rhetoric from incels and trans people can be, there is an underlying truth to features that are genetically masculine and features that are genetically feminine. It is enabling to assume otherwise and is the very foundation of "hon" culture.
incels misinterpret behavioural biology.
This slightly reminds me of a very weird habit I have: I watch Stefan Molyneux videos.  I dont fully know why. It all started when I stumbled across a video by him called "The Truth about Zootopia". Now, having no idea of who he was, I naivelly thought it was going to be a review of Zootopia. What I actually found was... And, for any of his fans, forgive me... One of the most racist, sexist and nonsensical rants I ever found. I could elaborate on just what was so wrong about that video, but, to be honest, right now, this is not the main point of my comment, and I dont want to get too sidetracked. All you need to know was, that video made me hate and despite Stefan. Not just in a friendly disagreement way, but in a way that I actually thought he was a bad person. And keep in mind, although I consider myself a proud feminist, I actually have many friends who are conservatives, and talking to then never inspired on me the same kind of bile, of rage, that Molyneux content inspired upon me... Alas... Every couple of weeks, I find myself watching another one.  I dont know why. I think it is a... Curiosity, on my end. To know why the alt-right thinks the way they do. But honestly... I think there might be a self-harm element to it.
I love you, subbed. <3
there are anorexia forms that do that exat same thing
"churning out mass murderers"  Ah, rather some mass murderers have identified, or been identified, as "Incels".  The Incel and the Gender Feminist are two sides of the same victimhood.
Reeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee
16:13 Broooooo, that's fucking Whitney Wisconsin hugging that chick with the white dress in that image on the right! 🤣🤣🤣🤣🤣
I love this
holy shit this video is everything. your vibe is great and so are your points, and i laughed so much. subbed!  p.s that whispered skull-tapping asmr part was so relaxing lol
What is this crap?
Also, very thoughtful video, I really appreciated your sincerity and relating the subject back to your own struggles. It's really difficult to be so vulnerable, not to mention doing it on the internet and with such grace and humour. Coming from a really dark place recently, myself, I can really relate to how these kinds of thoughts start and then spiral. It's easy to immediately demonize hateful incels but it really boils down to our collective inability to address mental health issues properly. It should be a class all throughout school, learning how to be conscious. It seems silly but seriously... This pervasive loop of unconscious self-hate is silly.
/lgbt/ is so shitty for anything except the webcomics thread
Okay wait. Do incels think they invented Pareto's law?
I hate how some cis men (gay cis guy myself just to clarify) say that sex reassignment surgery is "getting your dick cut off". It demonizes the practice and is just basically gross, and contributes to the way too persistent belief that a trans woman's vagina is some kind of a wound.
Fucking Roosh desperately trying to justify being able to cook. Like, Holy shit dude, it's a basic life skill, it's feeding yourself, not a surrender to femininity or some shit. Fucking bearded twat.
I was kinda shocked when you said you’re doing face surgery, because honestly? You’re damn pretty. I know pretty cis women who have less feminine faces than you. >_<
Just gotta say, you're beautiful, you're gorgeous, you look like a goddess and any woman, cis or trans, would be lucky to be as beautiful as you are. You're also incredibly intelligent and thoughtful. Whenever you feel like going to those dark places again, please read this and believe it because it's true. I hope it makes your day a bit better
1st vid. Made me deeply uncomfortable. Subbed.
I thought and still think you’re a woman lol
I will get laughed at for saying this, but i am convinced that incels are the damage we start to see from exposure to anime and free internet porn. I mean the lifted posts in this video show how incels get their concept of male and female body from porn and they would be completely normal men if they wouldnt try to emulate that "creepy anime loser" archetype because in anime they always gel literal two dimensional women as sex slaves.
"The inherent eroticism of the seeaaaa" legit lol'd
incels dont get prostitutes, literally tells you there is something seriously wrong about them and that they should be sent to a mental facility. Its like not liking eating, its like not liking sight, there are these things, all of these are real, and all get help from the hospital, but not incels.
You're very funny and look fancy as heck!   You're a lot of fun and I'm glad I found this channel.
Several very insightful points, and I appreciate what you had to say.  I've said very similar things myself on many of the topics.  But it is worth noting two particular departures.  One of them, probably the most significant one, is your disregard of the effects of feminism on the typical behaviors and psyches.  The fact of the matter is, the groups you refer to that dehumanize women have been dehumanized by women in large number for a long time, a fact which you pointedly ignored, even after allowing for the indirect language and sarcasm.  Objecting to the fact that groups of men who are ignored by or dehumanized by women, ignore or dehumanize women, one cannot be surprised, reasonably, and with anything approaching fairness, by a basic causal relationship such as this.  Another significant problem, though, is that you would move the goalpost on who is responsible.  There is a reason that you transitioned male to female.  And this is what brings us to our second point.  You recognize the advantages of being female.  We live in a society in which it is in general acceptable to be homosexual, and where many people recognize the problems inherent in gender roles, rendering gender reassignment overkill, and an adaption based upon a preference.  A bias.  You are sympathetic.  You have some sympathy for males having been one, but your greater sympathy lies with your chosen gender, which is why you chose it.  I could go on, but let me wrap it up for neither your sake nor mine, but for the sake of others, and simply say: feminism is, was, and always will be sexist.  And being sexist will never be fair, and will always be destructive.  It has consequences for males being a sexist ideology that is deeply embedded in our culture at this point, only made more so and the effects more profound by casual dismissals.  Gender reassignment on both sides comes from the illusion that feminism represents reality.  Consider.  Respond if you want.  I'll be happy to discuss it further.  By way of simple demonstration, and yes it's anecdotal, but I have several thousand more,  an ideology that would make mugs, even in jest, that say "male tears" is an ideology that dehumanizes.  To add insult to injury, this is an ideology that has completely disregarded the costs to men throughout the generations.  Heart disease, for instance, becomes a significant issue when women begin to suffer it.  Male life expectancy was lower than women's for decades, maybe centuries.  It wasn't of consequence because men were dying.  It doesn't take a genius to recognize the fact that the professional life is bad for one's heart.  That it's stressful, and produces all sorts of stress related illness.  But it wasn't investigated until women were dying.  This is not nothing.  This is not insignificant.  This is in fact profound.  Are the various male groups unhealthy?  Yes they are.  Are they more unhealthy than that which they are directly responding to?  No, they are not.  It doesn't matter whether you attack a person's livelihood for the duration of their life, or you kill them.  The consequences are rather similar.  Both show a rather strong lack of empathy and regard for one's value, one's humanity or lack of humanity.  You haven't considered feminism as carefully as you've considered many of your other points, and you should.
Why is Youtube recommending me this? Im clearly not the target group...
the fucking terf impression im CRYING i love you.
*oof*
Quetzal es mi pastor.
Digital self-harm is a phrase I absolutely needed to see. I wish it had somehow happened upon me earlier, but a few months ago I had to quit twitter cold turkey because I realized that it was making me so incredibly miserable. I was intentionally exposing myself to internet things that made me unhappy and I rationalized to myself that it was more important to "keep up with what's going on in the world." Some of it was politics, but a LOT of it was bullshit internet Discourse that was just... awful. And I just kept going on twitter, constantly, because of that rush, the relief of being in the know, of getting in on all the memes as they happened, because it felt so important to be completely informed always. It's not exactly the same as the incel digital self-harm you're talking about, but it is definitely very similar, and I think a lot more people are engaging in digital self-harm than realize it.
I am so glad I found your channel.  You are amazing!
The 'problem' is feminism is PARTIALLY responsible for this.  Women wanting equal pay for equal work?  How horrible ... if totally fair.  Women want to be promoted right along side their male colleagues?  Beyond the damning reality advancement by merit makes great economic sense, why would we want to do that?  The same goes for women's access to our colleges and universities which make the above possible ... and you have the seeds if this disaster.  Because ... hypergamy does exist.  Who remembers mothers telling their daughters to marry a man with a good career, who makes 'good money', ect?  Next consider how men who have college degrees (thus greater economic prospects) have been willing to marry women without to the number of women willing to do the same?  It doesn't happen.  Women with college degrees want to marry to men with at least the same economic frontiers.  Then take into account women also make up the majority of our college campus crowds and have been since 2000 ... and the ratio is getting 'worse' and by 'worse', I mean 60/40 (female/male) and gap is growing.  Then you have to take into account what is being told to young women, and has been their mantra for decades now ~ they CAN have it all - career, marriage, children and happiness.  This is despite the growing divorce rate and children growing up in father-less homes.  In contrast, nothing has changed in what young men are being told ~ they have to be bread-winners, career-driven, married with children ... and that will somehow equate to their happiness.  They have been growing up seeing unhappy men, divorced men, or 'absent' men.  Roll the clock back three generations when all this whirlwind began and you see young men growing up and believing if they graduated high school they would then get a factory job, marry their high school sweetheart, settle down, get the house, the 2.5 kids and work for the next forty years ... at the same job.  Most women still thought the highlights of their lives would be their wedding days, the births of their kids and perhaps the days those children graduated high school themselves.  The reality is the World has changed.  There is no pushing back the clock.  Women are getting more degrees and will be for some time, if not until our civilization comes crashing downs centuries from now.  They are going to pursue careers (or our economy is most likely f**ked).  That means men and women are both going to have to change their partnership expectations.  I say 'partnership' because as it currently stands, marriage - as in all those marriages which end in divorce - doesn't profit men as much as it profits women and men know this.  Neither men nor women seem all that interested in fighting to make marriages work anymore anyway.  The other, more serious, issue is men are doing a poorer job of expressing what being a 'man' is all about.  It isn't a square chin, or pronounced brow ridge.  It isn't a fancy car, or private jet.  It is about confidence in one's self and an unshakable drive to strive courageously forward in doing what you feel to be right.  It is, in fact, about being fully responsible about the effort which has led you to your current circumstance - the opposite of an incel.  Where are the fathers, uncles and older brothers to these incels to point them in the right direction?  Where have all those masculine guardians gone?
No answer is provided, disappointing. However I know there are other more important stuffs for me to deal with, so not getting laid is not my priority.
Lmfao you people don't know what this is, I can barely even masturbate anymore because I am only able to fatansize about two girls and I fucking hate them, I am ready to kill myself but I'm taking it all down with me
Lemme smash
This video just got me thinking and I just want to write a paragraph to vent just because. I have had self hatred since I was a child because I found it hard to relate and connect with people (there's a bunch of other reasons as well, but I'll leave it at that) and it has manifested in horrible ways. I remember signing up to some social anxiety forum thinking i could find some like minded individuals.  Unknowingly before i knew what an incel was, i had some encounters with some incels who thought all my problems were invalid and It made me feel worse about myself, since I tried so hard to relate and sympathise with them, thinking that we were cut from the same cloth. But, of course i am a woman, so why would they listen to me, all they did with berate me even though i showed kindness to them. I thought lowly of incels, but the thing is, my self hatred has manifested in horrible ways towards others. Instead of romantic love, I would get upset that people did not want me in their social group or wanted to be my friend. This is honestly more pathetic than being rejected as a romantic interest, but what can I do. Because i did not want to be a hypocrite, I stopped talking to people with my problems and try to only surround myself with positive things and made sure I always remind myself that it's better that I keep myself busy and to not make my whole life rely on acceptance from others. I am far from being who I want to be right now, but I just have to accept it for the time being. Incels is what happens when depression and anxiety gets ugly and even though they are horrible people, I still have hope for them even though they see me as worthless meat.
Also mass shooting usually aren't a revenge thing, it is more of a form a suicide there was a ted talk about this.  I'm sure it does happen with revenge but the killing isn't usually personal.
Seeking out romance in unhealthy I feel better to just make good friends and let that grow into a inmate relationship.  I think searching for someone just to be romantically involved automatically means you will over romanitcise them in your head putting them on a pedestal they will never fulfill.  If your lover is a former friend you know what a piece of shit they can be and have accepted that.
This is literally the best video that I’ve ever watched about the incel community. It’s so well informed and funny and respectful <3333
Wow, "wristcels". I just read about koro earlier today, seems to tie in pretty well with this type of body dysmorphia: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Koro_(medicine)
No need to imagine. Been there, done that😉
IMAGINE THE MOUTHFEEL OF A FUCKABLE SKULL🌚🌝 ( ͡° ͜ʖ ͡°)
girl,dont you touch those bones
holy shit i just realised why i used to watch nb cringe compilations for the same reason. It indulged my deepest anxieties about who I was and what i looked like. Damn.
Whatever hurts is true is a platitude, I think it is most similar to learned helplessness. Those with learned helplessness tend to neglect themselves under the impression that life won't be getting any better than it is, in a dog, it was conditioned in one specimen by subjecting it to pain that it could control by pressing a buzzer or chewing at something - and the other dog could only endure the pain of being shocked until it went away. The dog eventually learned that they were helpless against their situation and 'laid down helplessly'. Sound familiar to you? It struck some bells in my head that it was the same as lay down and rot, because there is 'nothing you can do'.  But what can you glean from that examination? Well the dog had to be subjected to a helpless situation for this to occur, and the same tends to be true of those in reality. They may have experienced bullying to a degree that it has emotionally scarred them, they may have accrued enough pains over their life to 'Assume That It Is Normal (the definition of learned helplessness)'. The idea that these situations are not normal in itself can be a distressing emotional event. It is like the big unveil as that mad doctor who is responsible for the sheer misery of your life admits it and says that there was no reason you had suffered, and someone else has lived a luckier life.  In a way that is not a secret to be learned about life, everyone knows it. Life is unfair. Some are lucky enough to be born beautiful, some with different personalities, to rich families, to brains that didn't manifest psychoses. It is all luck. I guess I don't really care whether or not it is luck because my own experience tells me that no-one gives a shit about how badly you feel for your misfortunes, because they are so selfish already. They have their own lives and worries, they want to be entertained by you. They have expectations of you, (imagine the entitlement!). What's so wrong about me turning around to them and saying that I don't give a shit about what they want? I won't be earning any points from them, but I never tend to anyway. I impress myself. If I looked ugly enough to turn up to one of their parties and they had this hilarious reaction about turning to me with sneers and childish contempt from the babies of the first world and their pudgy fucking fathers I would revel in it. What are they going to do? You have to think about this in terms of opportunism.
"Secrets that society has been hiding from me!" See? I was right before it even came along. They think that in their misery they have obtained something that others are not privvy to, they think of themselves as above others; when those comments that they subject themselves too are more likely their conscience telling them what kind of piece of shit they are. It's like self-harm coming from the soul.
There is a pleasure in thinking that you know better than other people do. And a kind of seductiveness to the idea that only negative, evil people, have access to this wealth of knowledge of reality. It is the delusion that evil is power, and, that it will give you an advantage over the other, happy-go-lucky people on the Earth. Who smile, but who you personally see as all harbouring a darkness inside of them, that is antithesis to the ideals that society espouses publicly and hopes to uphold. You would like to be the brainless amoeba, unsophisticated and simple, but wisened and powerful, and you fear being the lamb. The doe-eyed bambi, in front of the oncoming car.  But you are still a fool. You don't know shit because you sold yourself for less than you were truly worth out of laziness and contempt for the rest of society. You have gained no advantages, just a tar-like appearance over your person, that drowns out the good, that makes you seem like that 'heart broken' artist who has suffered but is really contemptible as you were the day you were born to the first world economy. A precious, coddled brat, who will never know pain.
Wait baking is considered not masculine? I love baking and shit but I view it as being self sufficient rather than some kind of hobby.
“Gabbing about Paris Hilton” it’s....2018....
You do such a fantastic job empathetically but ruthlessly analyzing these topics. Great fuckin work.
These British voice actors are doing FAR too much
When the lighting turned to pink and green I just lost my marbles 💋😍
This is my first time watching a video of yours and I had no idea you were a transwoman at first. You look absolutely beautiful! I really like this style of content and will spend the next few days binge-watching your videos ;w; )b
This is the first video from you I've ever watched and I think I'm in love ❤️
great video, a cinematic masterpiece of our time
Roosh V; the guy with the immortal line ''No means no until it means yes.''   14:40 Sounds like 9gag. 15:20 LOBSTERS.
I used tinder twice. first time, very little interaction - second time I was my chicken and used it to make puns, was great would recommend - tho some ppl got werid and wanted 'real pics'... also my account was deleted overnight :(
That talk about erotic nature gave me chills.
"I bake my own bread" has a baking machine in background. Yeah. Your "own".
Wow i'm just 6 mins in but i'm very impressed your argument with the foppington's law is superb never heard it but now it makes more sense to me why they are so obsessed with skull bones.
So..... their skulls are too small to be a chad but when they want it to be seen as such, they start yelling that its too manly??? So its a chad skull????????????????
Why would you call Jordan Peterson a sexist old man???
10:37 i think the guy on the right is better looking
I've always felt like an Incel although I've never sought out any sort of community. The very idea seems absurd, so long as there is still even a faint chance to change something.   I met a friend who changed me in a time of my life in which I became more settled, took better care of myself and so on. I learned how to talk to women without losing my mind, how to be funny, when to be respectful and gentleman-like and when to stand my ground and not be a doormat.   I married the first woman that would have me. I love her to bits and things are going great for many years now. After becoming married I got a lot more female attention, maybe because I'm more laid-back about the whole thing (or maybe it's the ring, I don't know).   That being said, when I'm in my head, walking down the street or sitting on the bus, I still feel like an insect next to goddesses, even though my wife would put the vast majority of these women to dire shame by virtue of looks. Whatever I put on when I'm acting normal is definitely a mask.   I'm saying this because I think there is a possibility that this Incel thing is not the cause but only the symptom of a psychological disposition that lies deeper than anything discussed in this video.   But in any case, the bottom line of the video is very accurate: Being unattractive is hell, but blaming other people is only going to make things worse for you. Maybe this advise is applicable to more people than just Incels too.
Natalie, this episode is deep as fuck and extremely needed. I am so grateful that you made this. Thank you so much for being so honest and so real.
literally the best youtube channel
You look so fucking good & this video was really entertaining, well done & informative. Edit - Volcel if you wouldn't 😂😂 fuck, I spend too much time on reddit
Contra, that thing about people NOT USING ideas or arguments properly, the way rational people use arguments or criticism.  They are using them like razor blades to cut. BEEN THERE DONE THAT, pre-internet days.  I had to find a few dozen ways and new reasons to say STOP. Cut that shit out. Stop doing it.  Even if there's some arbitrary truth in my thoughts amidst some facts, why invent the worst possible story about it to cut myself with?  Animals use what little brainpower they have to survive.  Humans use their massive brains to think up complex philosophies of self-destruction. Now I know, it's Epistomological uh whatever you said Pain.  Srsly, 12 Steps CAN be used to ANALYZE one's way out of this mess, if these self-abuse tendencies fall under the category of 'personality flaws' that need to be identified and purged, but 12 Steps can also be used to invent new potent self-criticisms and shame-cycles that is vicious but anti-rational and self-destructive.  Like any tool, it depends how one uses it.
This was much more compassionate than I expected. It would be so easy to just mock the entire incel philosophy but you really made me imagine how someone could end up like that. Thank you for this video.
Addicted to your vids, thanks for posting them!
Im not even that atractive i dont act like a douchebag and i just find girls who like what i like and talk about the same stuff and it starts as a freindship, if we seem compatible then i ask them out. It works most the time and if it dosent u shrug it off and move on,most the time we stay freinds and just chat about science and politics.....idky incels think its so imposible, its like they just read nonstop hate posts to fuel their already beleived notions to prove some ilogical point in their mind instead of actualy trying different things. ps sex isnt this magical thing, and drugs are wayyyy better/longer of a feeling and are much easier to get
What an amazing video. Truly good content.
You make a really great point about the parallels between certain trans forums and incel communities, esp. with respect to community of self-loathing.
Real talk, that outro was pretty steamy and out of absolutely nowhere. I don't know how to react to that.
Wait what.... I say hon all the time!! Fuck.... That explains the occasional rage reaction I've gotten from it..... Jesus fuck it's a term for like.... Idk like gently going "you're wrong oh dear" like "oh honey no..." Type shit.... Fucking hell bud
wlw dating apps result in radio silence lmao  ....maybe it's bc I'm genderqueer tho.... Lol
I crush on you so much!
That's it ! I'm going to fuck the sea !
Dont fuck up my boi Mendelson please, your amazing but please dont do this to this wholesome string quartet. I dont even like him that much but please
Lady are you a snack ? Cause I sure would like to take you out on a date then take you home before kissing you on the cheek on your porch !
27:31
imo, One of the best videos about this subject. This video got me to subscribe to you.
Thank you for saying all this, wich such precision and aesthetics.
I won the discourse !
I'm a girl and my wrist is bigger than the average dildo, does that make me a man?
"I'm ultra masculine, as you can see"  -hahahahahahahah!!
What a great video, I’ve always had this half-empathetic, half-critical view on incels and this has some really great insight into their community and why they are the way they are. I wonder if there will be any defined mental illness for incels (more specific than antisocial PD, major depressive disorder, or social anxiety disorder) because it meets the definition for one.  There should be new targeted therapies for incels because tbh they really need the help.
i wanna hear abt female incels tho do they exist
sorry to whoever drew that but the chad drawing didnt look vry contrapposto
Roosh V is just the biggest douche out there. He deserves to fade in obscurity. It's unfortunate that people still see him as some sort of role model.
I'm not sure the incels will like pansexuality as a general solution
You sound like a Dark Elf from Oblivion.
I wonder if you were able to follow the controversy following the recent unpublishing of a paper from the New York Journal of Mathematics dealing with variability hypothesis? It's related to Incel topic by implying that due to greater variability of traits a large percentage of males (over 50% in the model presented) will find themselves completely undesirable by females.
Oh my god, incels are fucking hilarious! I can't even with these guys. It's just too funny.
Daaaamn, you really know how to cut the tension on a hard topic!
Random thought- I love the colors in the background. I haven't the faintest idea how it was done, but I approve.
...ngl even as an nb, I had no idea hon was used like this. I have what I like calling a half southern accent and hon as a term of endearment is rly common.
is this a guy or a girl lol
Is this video a transvestite talking about not getting laid?
Im so enthused that I have been recommended this channel. Keep making wonderful content!  💜
Holy motherfucking fuck! This vodeo is great. Cheers.
So is it a boy or a girl
Very well made. I am impressed, and I'm not impressed easily. I know that means nothing to you, but to me it means a lot. Thank you. I didn't know I needed to hear the term "masochistic epistemology".
Next Morrowind stream when?
I actually thought you were a woman when I first saw this video.
Becky sounds hot
There'd be a thrill of going to TTTT? There was a rush, it was exciting to bust out of the bubble? You justified it by telling yourself it was research, you had to keep tabs on them. Then you realised it wasn't just research, it was infec- You're a literal walking starwars plot. Welcome to the darkside.   ....Darth Hon
Ok, so, I've heard this channel mentioned in passing, and what-do-you-know, this vid is in my recommendeds.   Less than 2 minutes in and I'm seriously worried that YouTube knows me too well.
Hi brilliant video but don’t asmr me pls
I can't get over how much that 'Chad' drawing looks like a shitpost
I love all the psychological analysis in this video! It's unique in that it tries to actually empathize with a group of people sitting so far out on the edges of society that most everyone just agrees to ignore them as much as humanly possible (unless they're natural-born bullies, in which case they'll use them as their barrel of fish when they feel the need to take shots at an easy target). I really like that. And the bizarre sense of humour really worked for me, too. Just... Instant favourite.
"WHAT IS WITH YOU PEOPLE AND SKULLS?!"
I haven't been a huge fan of these, but this was fantastic.
I feel like I experienced a PhD paper in video form
me looking at the ocean: i;m going to fuck that
I was having a good day. We were all having a good day.     ...fucking nailed it tho.
I'm in awe at this video. I did not expect such good writing and thinking when clicking on it. I watch a lot of those type of videos (focusing on a weird community the internet has produced...) but you take the genre to an all new level.
My advice to Incels is that they should get some quality of life and learn about MGTOW.
I vastly prefer women to men, but idk wtf these incels are going on about, saying that thin wrists and shortness or whatever instantly makes men unattractive. I’ve always been more attracted to men closer to my height, and ones that had androgynous features. High cheekbones and long eyelashes on a man had always been charming to me, but the real deciding factor has always been their morals.
I’ve already watched but I have to come back to comment: NATALIE YOU LOOK SO GOOD IN THE THUMBNAIL OMG
they are quite small minded animals, but are quite interesting
I had a dream that she made another video last night, so it must be soon!
Love u mom
What kind of anime otaku came up with the term "FEMOID?"  Some weeb?  Being one myself, I just have a feeling that's something the lonely otaku's came up with.
What was the "problematic discourse"?
"... and those who lieth betwixt... Cats." Ah. Yes. My thoughts exactly. <3
Damn, so happy I'm a lesbian.
You are an absolute delight.  Thank you for this video.
Men want to bed the Staceys but they want to wife the Beckys. Women want to bed the Chads and husband the nice guy.   No one ought to feel bad for obeying many millennia of survival instinct. If incels put as much work into self-improvement and searching for a mate as they do playing vidya and bitching on the internet it is mathematically impossible not to find a mate. Simply being a westerner improves your chances of getting yourself a good looking island girl at least that’s what I’ve seen more than a few of my former incel friends do with their adorable Filipina brides.   Our culture abhors work ethic for whatever reasons, and work ethic will free you from the trappings of lazy thinking.
This was so calming X X
So Ellis sent me here from your cameo. Was expecting the insight, was surprised how well you incorporate humor into such a heavy subject. You've earned yourself a viewer. Going to work my way though your videos now.
I don't agree with the statement of Jordan Peterson being sexist but I do agree with everything on this video. Good job.
I'm a black african, there's an implicit connotation there but I really really really enjoy your channel. Please never stop. I'm very very heterosexual btw which possibly makes things more interesting in a certain context, my context. Love the channel that is definite.
I like the subtle suggestion at the end that incels should GET IN THE SEA!
im so glad you look pretty with all the colors while talking abt such ugly things like it really evens it out in my brain
This video made me subscribe, your voice is so incredibly soothing.
Also, great points. I needed this. Thank you.
i love you omg 😂
You are very funny. +1
incel can be overcome with anime waifu's.
Sooo this is the first video of yours I've ever seen, annnd I don't know how to put this tactfully/properly, but I didn't realize you were trans till you said something. Not that trans folks *have* to pass or whatever, and not to make a big deal of it, but you're amazing and I love your presentation style
HI there, I'm a writer who has been researching incels for a while now, I wrote a play which dealt with them... this is the best and most balanced video I've seen about them... also a great sense of humour, and not without empathy for lonely people. bravo! and thank you
The more I learn about the incel community the weirder it gets. 4th base here really made me realize how similar I am (or at least have been in the past) to incels. I too used to indulge bad feelings and seek out abuse like that. I still sometimes find it tempting. It's terrifying to know that there is a huge community that views this as normal behavior.  It's even more terrifying still that instead of turning that hatred towards themselves, like I did, they turn it against women.
Dear Contrapoints, Please Do not change anything about you .  Who you are is so beautiful.   I apologize for bluntness I've had a few but I don't know why I feel like I just have to say this----    I love and glorify whoever you want to be and any kind of way you choose to pursue that, im just a nobody i dont claim my feelings is worth anything, but let me be real and just say what I feel.   I am a guy who has been traditionally heterosexual ----and you are definitely an earthquake to that foundation.  I don't mean to frame this in a way that is assuming you are a man at glance, I know that is insulting, I really dont mean it that way----, you were once a man and now you choose to be a woman, and I feel in order to get the point across I would have to approach from the bottom up---- I've had deep thoughts about what love and attraction really is and whether or not biology has ANYTHING to do with it ultimately----   Your metaphors are great you really explain things lucidly.  I apologize if this is stupid you can delete it.  I don't mean to be offensive---    You are so fucking hot please dont ever change anything about yourself... like that...  of course grow as a person ...but please dont change your mental biology, your brow structure, your jawline, your sexual gear, please....    Anyway, thats my unfiltered opinion and its me stepping outside of being politically correct or being afraid of being offensive-------sometimes people just need to be told that they are incredibly beautiful and I mean in everyway, and I just have to tell you.   <3
This is by far the best video I've ever seen on this subject.
Lets be honest Chad vs Virgin Steve is pretty funny
Lol I got a prager u ad talking about satan's postmodernist and how they are destroying the west. They called diversity equity and inclusion the unholy trinity.
I watch this for the irony
one of the best videos i've seen in a while
This is one of the most amazing videos on yt
incels have the same knowledge of people as aliens from outer space would
*chads of colour*
BREAD SCIENTIST. STOP I CAN'T BREATH.
Funny & witty ! Didn't know about those guys in details but... Come on ! That black pill is a true poison. Thanks for a very handy helpfull concept. And wow that last minute is just one of my favorite  internet epicness from now on.
This is the first 30 minute video I've seen that ever matters
I am not an incel. But I have severe depression, chronic pain and I am still a virgin.. and I was really tempted by incels. But as you said rightly,its hell. Also I had lovoo for three weeks and I had 0 likes. Fun times
>state that you want to understand incels >make video where comments section is full of people who came to laugh at them another case of someone making a good video which still fails terribly, also a question: why subs like /fatshaming get banned and /IncelTears don't? because it's ok to mock some groups as long as majority of people says so, which is also true if you look at our history
This video is informative and insightful, and you look more like a woman than I do...and I'm a heterosexual woman with two children! The sad truth for incels is that it's simply biological good sense for women to sleep with the smartest, strongest and most confident men, and the only way to combat this is for the less genetically gifted men to either accept themselves the way they are or learn to better themselves, and maybe learn to accept the fact that they themselves might have to settle for a woman who is less than a perfect "10." Speaking for myself, my mate of 15 years was not exactly a Chad...he had broken teeth, a nose like that of a Boeing 747, had suffered a severe spinal injury that made him walk a bit  funny and a drinking problem that eventually killed him, but he was intelligent and funny and reasonably good in bed. I have high hopes that both our children (a boy and a girl) will grow to be a Debbie and a Chad, and the world will smile upon both of them!
YOU YOU LIVE IN BALTIMORE. lmao me too. idk why i think thats so cool, lots of people live here.
Wasn't the Third Reich based on skulls?
Self-fulfilling prophecy.
pregaming for the new video tomorrow with miller high life and older videos
What about prostitutes? Excuse me, sex workers. Have Incels never heard of them?
This is the first of your videos I have seen but I have already subscribed :)
Shouldn't the Incel genes have disappeared from the species long ago, if this is all genetic? Where are all these Incels coming from?
Wanna know what bewiders me th most about this community. They go on and on about how it's not fair they can't get laid because of their looks, but they almost exclusively group women by looks and nothing else.
Your voice has changed since I watched you last.
Chad "has never heard a song in his life"  What?!
lol even in that imagine how a woman feels thing the girl didnt cum
I kind of wish there was a site-blocker for comment sections. Easily one of my worst  habits lol
After the second viewing i realized how much i had/have in common with the Incel. I just channeled my sexual frustration to furious masturbation, alcohol and weed. It didn't work out too well.. I mean i have had sex and a long(ish) term relationship but i still suffer from crippling social phobia and depression issues... And furious masturbation and alcoholism. I quit the weed though, cos that shit's illegal.
I have dogmatic hopelessness that women will never be seen as people.
About the dude bitching about his wrist size, the dude might be "anorexic". So back in the day, worked out allot. Not to be cut but to be strong and endurant. I was quite massive, wich gave me alot of attention, but I started comparing the size of my arms, chest, legs, to the eize of my wrists. I knew it was stupid, that the muscles in my wrists were not suposed to become big like the other muscles in my arms, but it still bugged me.   I dont know what his situation is, but maybe it's something similar to what happened to me.
We just need incels to play some good ol’ fucking rock n’ roll
*bread scientist
What's wrong with paying for sex?
That leap in the black pill is quite common in mental illness. Given that 50% of society is on anti-depressants (myself once included), I'm going to go ahead and assume that a lot of incels need ACTUAL medical attention. Not hobbies. Not sunshine. Therapy.
Thank you so much Natalie from the bottom of my heart. Your recent videos have inspired me to leave my abuser and escape from a relationship that was causing me so much pain and put me in the Emergency Room earlier this year. It's also inspired to start confronting and examining and things about myself that I never truly considered before, like how I've never felt masculine or manly and always felt guilty about it. I don't want to feel guilty anymore. I just want to feel like me. You helped me a lot in getting to this point. Thank you, thank you, thank you, and keep making the best art on youtube (sort of like keeping the cleanest Port-o-Potty at Coachella yes, but a custodian who is able to keep a Port-a-Potty at Coachella relatively clean actually is an artist in a way, and also a US American hero. but what do I know about it I've never been to Coachella). You are beautiful and gorgeous and sexy and funny and a visionary for our times as well as a legend of the future.
Fuck. Now I'm in love.
Before I saw this video, I just thought that incels (who I heard of like four days ago) were just sad men. But now I know that I had NO IDEA HOW FUCKING SAD.
26:39 Wait, for real? I literally just found your channel by this video, and I had no clue you were trans until you said it.
Yikes these people are pathetic. I'm a balding aspie with daily migraines and I've still had a lot of girlfriends
I love contra. I long physically to see you debate Jordan Peterson. To me that is the intellectual equivalent of viagra. Plus Peterson is so trapped in his world he needs a good slap of proper philosophical argument in place of his current diet of 'thoughts = facts' (reality need not intrude).
But... Aren’t most incels hypergamists (by their definition, anyway)? Every time I see something about them, they’re always complaining about how ‘Stacy’ won’t go out with an ugly guy like them, even though that deflates the whole theory at around 9:55. I don’t expect them to appreciate the irony of their situation since they seem to lack awareness of so many other things, but still.
This is your best video yet!  Keep up the good work!
Oh GOD, "the red pill". UUUugggGGHHhhhhhhhh.  Anyway, I had never heard of this channel nor seen this woman ever in my life until this video popped up in my recommendations today (hilariously after having just watched a spate of gaming-themed videos). I enjoyed watching. You def got me laughing and I like your takes. I'm excited to check out your other videos. I think you have a new fan. :D
I left some hopefully helpful comments below but I wanted to mention ONE of those PUA guys (Julian) who I watched a few vids (no cash) who DID enjoy women, enjoyed flirting, fun, laughing, entertaining, hugging, kissing, some "negging" but just as normal witty disarming teasing in place of excessive "compliments" but NOT to CRUSH WOMEN'S EGO.  He spoke of being open to honest friendships aka occasional fuckbuddies, possibly open to LTR.   He suggested a kind of open-ended rule-less "game" to get beyond insecurities and annoying desperation, and to be able to walk up and talk to any woman for the fun of it without seeming creepy or needy.  Could say something bawdy and bold without being gross.  He suggested personal self-development to attain that attitude to replace fear and shyness. He was criticized on TV for some thoughtless typical PUA comment but his response was that he was taken out of context. I found him NOT as entertaining or informative as Contra, but enjoyable to watch.
I hope this isnt offensive; imean it shouldnt be...but it porbablly is; but i didnt realize you were trans right away, and made me think that there shouldnt be a problem with a man being attracted to you. (forgive me i used to be very very pentacostal {this feels stupid but i feel the need to apolgise again})
No mention that the incel community is basically a domesticated lolcow? That anonymous users prod these sad young men to agree to ludicrous crap, just for their own kicks?
Incels can go fuck themselves. That is all.
the first couple secs made me literally say wtf.
u ever watch a video so bangin u sub without knowing anything else about the channel
Interesting.  I... guess I'm an incel? Maybe a volcel? The point is I've been in relationships, they didn't work out, I'd *like* to get into a good relationship but I'm not actually working towards that because.... I dunno, I just don't care enough to try these days. Women aren't throwing themselves at me and to believe that it's because I'm some sort of genetically inferior subject would be easy but I know it's because *I'm not trying* and that's the truth.   But the way these individual incels view humanity is unfortunate at the least and detrimental to themselves.  WE AREN'T LAB MICE Yes, we are by definition, animals. Mammals specifically. But to see another human or even yourself as a basic animal is not a way to go through life. We're not just humans - we are *people* I'm a person, You're a person and even those who have wronged you have personhood (f@$k those people but they're still people)  I know not every incel is just looking for sex. I'm sure most are actually looking for a long term, stable relationship where they'll feel that their own love for their partner is reciprocated. But for those that just want sex... that's easily remedied with a couple hundred dollars.   For everyone else... Travel. You don't even have to go far. Just take a trip to an adjacent city or another state. You'll see new things, meet new people and have interesting experiences (hopefully good ones). And (to play on the animal nature here) people who have never met you are likely to find you more attractive. You are foreign DNA, but more than that you're a person who could be new and interesting. You could have opinions, experiences and skills that another person might find attractive. And you'll be experiencing those same things but with literally everyone else around you because they are new to you.  To reiterate... If you're just looking for sex that has an easy solution. However, if you're just looking for sex, you probably won't find love. And if you're looking for love... stop focusing on sex and try looking somewhere else. You already "know" the people in your own community aren't interested so stop beating that dead horse and do some travelling.  But most of all - learn to love yourself and recognize that your worth isn't tied to something as transient as physical appearance.
This is the first video of yours I’ve seen and I think I love you.
I've noticed that despite Contra saying that this video wasn't a slight at incles, but more of a journey to understanding incels the comments seem pretty dissmissive / passive agressive towards incels. Pretty dissapointing to say the least.
Out of so the things that were "offensive " I was only ever offended by "rock and roll is dead". EXCUSE ME HOW DARE YOU
the amount of research and detail is amazing and actually taught me more about incels that i never knew, pls keep making more great content
I thought this would be elegant and artsy for .5 seconds... I was clearly wrong 😂
I love this video. It’s a deeper dive than I’ve seen in other videos, and I feel educated. Thank you
I say this too THE OP. Lady, you deserve a human to sleep with you.
Honestly speaking, I would sleep with a trans woman who is heterosexual. (As in a person born as a man who  now is transitioning into a woman, and is sexually attracted to heterosexual, potentially cisgender men.) while it might take some time for me to accept you, you are a woman, and you deserve sexual gratification, dammit.
The 80/20 rule is fucking stupid because every incel rant I've seen has proven that THEY'RE the hypergamous ones, constantly whining about not getting laid by a hot chick when there are a million desperate nerd girls everywhere.  Everyone wants someone gorgeous.
xD that bearded guys seems pretty insecure
I'm a tranny, dating another tranny.  if that can happen, hell, anyone can get laid.
I honestly believe that the incel community is based on a BUTTLOAD of self-hatred. It took me along time for me to unf**k myself from that sort of mentality. But I still think that incels, instead of being supportive of each other and accepting they have personal problems that need to address, have chosen to become consumed by hatred.  Listen, all of my friendos. You deserve love as much as any human beings. But you NEED to be able to love, like purely love, love a person as another human being, then you can be loved as a human being.
Why am I turned on by a trans woman. I am a woman, Youtube deleted my old accounts. I already have a crush on a androgynous male trainer from Pokemon. I loved the way you said naked body.
I wonder how many/if that's why many men on Deviantart and other places turned to vore. Their self loathing would not be satisfied by regular BDSM, and so they have turned to women eating them for pleasure.
4Chan isn't a good place, if you make one too many posts about a character from Pokemon being a trans woman, people will spam furry and lolli (little girl) porn until the mods ban the thread.
I'm actually a woman, I changed my Youtube account because my old accounts got delteted by Youtube. Basically, I am autistic, and I was bullied tremendously in grade school and Junior High because I picked my nose, scratched myself, didn't bath much, and so on, because I was highly nervous of school and other people, and also the autism. Nowadays, I use deoderant, I say excuse me and use fake smiles, and for the most part nobody notices me. I am now liked. I have no desire for sex for either male nor female, I am just saying I had problems with being social.
If you live the same way all tour life, and you live in the same way all your life, your life will always be the same. Get out.
woah woah woah woah now- you weren't actually a teen in 1975, right? You've got to be some kind of immortal goddess if that's true. (forgive me if I'm missing some obvious joke)
Am I the only one who actually think that anyone who can bake their own bread is really winning at life? I can barely make a damn batch of cookies without something going wrong XD
Oh my god I've been on the other end of that skull size bullshit.  I'm AFAB and I wear glasses. Well about a year ago when I still tentatively believed I was cis I needed to get my eyes tested and some replacement glasses. I looked at all the nice women's glasses but was told I couldn't have those because my skull is too wide so I dejectedly picked out some men's glasses. AND THEN NOTICED THEY WROTE MY NAME AS 'MISTER' ON THEIR BULLSHIT FORM.  I'm still super mad about this even now, I know its a silly thing, but its so disgusting that society forces things on you just because of things as inconsquential as SKULL SIZE. As such I also have a modicum of sympathy for incels.
Baltimore Divine  I see what you did there
kept seeing this video in my recommended. Glad i finally watched it!
Second time watching the video. The last part about the ""hons"" makes me fucking sick. This is just heartless. I have no idea why i have such a strong reaction to this, i have never had experiences in the scope of incels or r/lgbt, but it really makes me want to cry thinking about people intentionally hurting themselves.  This is absolutely heartless. This is THE WORST USE of the internet. I hope you're all doing okay. Remember that some people really do mean it when they say you're wonderful.
There was a time that I was like this, but then I realized that this world doesn't owe me shit and I had to work for what I wanted.  Now I just go around not giving a fuck.
hey everybody, "i had no idea you were trans" isn't a complement! it makes you sound like you think trans people are ugly or always "easy to spot" or something. just tell her she's pretty and move on. you can compliment her looks without bringing up the fact that she's trans
The ego tries to justify its existence by creating an identity related to the body in order to appear real because it is afraid by definition of others instead of unifying with others. This is negativity aka division. Terms such as incel and Chad etc create an identity worldview to replace God ( God as the whole or Spirit or the One if the term God  scares you). The ego sees other selves as enemies and every transaction as a fight for survival of egos. Every ego collides in this imaginary war of identities. In this case incels are the eternal victims of an interconnected 'concpiracy' against them and it tries in every way possible to relate to that going as far as accepting defeat in this algorithm of pain and killing themselves. Most wont because they have divided their ego into other small identities such as 'human', 'gamer','student' etc... so they are invested in more than one identity. All this is a created illusion of the mind. There is no-one here this is a mental construct or a simulation if you will. The choice you have to make is do you want to be happy or not. Most chose unhappiness over undoing their mental addiction. They feel powerless because we give the ego power over us and we think it must be the only think there is. But we are as powerful and immune and perfect in Heaven were we sit in timelessness with God who is our father and we his son's aka his will and his will is Love which is unconditional and infinite. We are expancive energy of light. There is nothing to fear. Just let go and you will be free. Let go of incel let go of terms let go of time. Those who are eager to hear will hear others will mock but offence is not given nor taken. There are no victims. Break the chains you have made for your-selves; they are made of air and you're just willingly imagining they are really there because you feel guilty of sin. Know you are sinless and loved and that your father wants you to wake up and return to were you are wholly/holy. Peace
This was a great video
17:04 That's an odd world view to hold. Personally I try to sympathize with anybody I can. No matter how awful their beliefs, if I can follow the path of logic that took somebody from observable conditions in the world around them to whatever they currently believe, I can sympathize with where they've ended up.  Thy only people for whom I have no sympathy are sadists, psychopaths and self-aware hypocrites.
Lol I was about to say you forgot most of 4chan but you remembered. About the Chads, they don't seem to hate Chads as much of women though.  Funny enough, guys less attractive tend to get prettier girls since time in memorial. I also knew a guy named Chad who was quite a dork, so it's kind of funny to me that such a name is seen as associated with alpha. He actually got me into manga;good times.
Who are you I'm in love where have you been all my life subscribed
JLDDVDFHLFEHVFHOVFHNFVHNCN THE B R E A D  S C I E N T I ST
How am I just discovering this channel now?! A beautiful woman with a fantastic sense of dry wit and intelligence commenting on issues relevant to my life as an opressed minority in an interesting way? With neat lighting and visuals? There's nothing not to like!
Are the echochambers of incels similar to those of neo fascists? Are their ideologies similarly formed: "I have a problem with the world, a group of people breeds distrust in other answers, I resort to more and more extreme solutions based on things I see and spread on the internet"? Are there notable differences, like neo-fascisisms roots in Nazi germany and the wider cultural phenomena based on eugenics?
Why have I never heard of your channel before? This is some quality shit. Subbed.
Frank Reynolds! <3
You just don't understand what its like to be Male ...
You like if damiaond hagen meet flifty Frank meet Lindsay ellits
You’re so good at what you do!
For anyone who feels lonely or needs to talk to someone, here's my email: editingspaceandtime@gmail.com Feel free to email me so we can exchange other social media platforms and have a chat. You are not alone, nor hopeless.
I. Love. You.  I mean this is creepy as sh*t don't get me wrong and I've been scared of these guys for a while but this vids was in the recommended box next to a Riley vid and I didn't know you before and I really like the way you explain all this and I think you make a really strong point and also kudos for putting Chopin in there and not just Chopin but one of the best ones too (if not the best).  Fun story: a girl played this in my high school when I was filming randomly in the corridors for an art project. Following the advice of my art teacher, I was going down the documentary-ish kinda feel inspired by the likes of Gus Van Sant's Elephant which, yes, is maybe not the best reference when you're filming in a school. But I had decided to shift it from… well the mass murder thing to more of a "the bad thing that happens is that one person self-harms/attempts to commit suicide" and it was the buildup to that and I would have of course just fictionalised that ending part. But anyways. That girl plays this exact song. And I'm thinking it's brilliant and associating it to Moonlight Sonata in Elephant and I wanted to make it the recurring theme of the short.   So this exact piece, in a short I wanted to make that was inspired by a film about a school massacre when the subject was planned to be self-harm and suicide. This is basically all the subjects of this video. And… yeah. I don't know ^^'  <3
I would be exorbitantly indifferent if Roosh got hit by a bus.
"The inherent eroticism of the sea" got me laughing so hard it gave me cramps.
omg! and you're a rocker! i think i'm in love!
*JAAAAYSUS*
you probably got better tits than me too, but they're newer. i've had gravity working on these bitches since i grew them 30 years ago. seriously, must be super nice not to have tits or a vag. why do peoe give thst up?
25:07 My head is 62-63 cm (24.8 inches) around, which is big for a man, and yet I'm a 21-year-old woman. No one has ever doubted for a second that I was a woman (unless you count the people who thought I was a boy when I was a baby because my mom had me wear blue colours and denim overalls - Love you mom). These people clearly don't know what they are talking about XD I've had to wear adults' bike helmets since I was like 7 and I've never been able to fit any hats other than my dad's (his head is the same size). My mom and brother too have big heads. This is quite funny to me that they can even say women can't have large heads.
look, i can kinda tell you're a dude, but you are very beautiful and clearly very intelligent. seriously, you like chicks part-time, you said? well, hell sometimes i like dudes in dresses. you seem like such an interesting person to know i would even throw out my rule about me having to be the pretty one
Not only does she create insightful commentary on all kinds of social and political issues that simultaneously manages to make me laugh out loud on a semi-regular basis, but she likes baroque music too? Holy shit, she's a goddess, S U B S C R I B E D
5'11'' biological female. people treat me like less of a woman all the time for being too tall. also my chin is a little wide, guess i'd make a good chad if i were a dude
interesting. thanks. i had no idea this was a thing
It's so strange seeing these guys basically bitching about problems every human being has. But no, ignorant as people are, its just their struggle. No "chad" can understand these feelings, no woman knows the struggle of an incel bla bla bla. That's pathetic. It all comes down to ignorant people without any empathy who think the whole world is like them.
I can tell you, with confidence, that telling the woman I'm dating that I'm attracted to ContraPoints, only brought us closer together.  It works, guys.
As a man from India, a sapiosexual and MGTOW who has never actually had sex, I've often wondered if I was actually an Incel just pretending otherwise or even gay. But unlike most Incels and gay males, I gravitated towards stereotypical guy things like MMA, existential philosophy from the West - specifically Kierkegaard, Nietzsche, Heidegger and Thoreau, Eastern philosophy like Bushido most easily seen in Musashi Miyamito's The Book of Five Rings and Hindu religious philosophy like Shiva's many forms and what they tell us about the nature of being itself. So incelling just seems like pathetic wankiness. I also never viewed a trans person as sexually attractive. But (hoping not to be creepy) I do find this person attractive even because I sense intelligence. In fact, I once considered the idea of writing a novella about a man dating a woman and falling in love with her only to discover she is a trans person in an Indian setting and the ramifications of that. So, meeting this person would be prime fodder for that purpose and a decent night out I suspect. But considering I will probably never meet her in person, I decided to write this down. As a potentially heterosexual male, I respect your decision to transition, even though I find no evolutionary benefit from doing so. "You are captain of your ship, you are the master of your soul."
The more Roosh V continues to repeat the phrase “I am a man,” the less I believe him. Conspiracy theory that Roosh V is a closeted trans woman who’s so far in the closet that he hates all women and all lgbt people as an outlet for his dysphoria.
Paris Hilton=“A very relevant cultural figure” 😂☠️ Love it.
PHRENsmr 22:22  Also, it has been at least a year since I have watched one of your videos and one of the things I noticed was the progress of your transition. So just dropping a posteriori judgement as a data point you probably dont need.
clicked on this video after youtube kept recommending it and can i just say that that room is fucking fantastic. I don't know what it is but i absolutely love that room. Oh and the video was cool too
PhilosophyTube is a brilliant voice actor!
I've recently started watching Daria for the first time, and hearing you talk about the Red Pill, I can't help but make parallels to Ms. Barch. I don't know why, but for some reason, comparing the two is endlessly entertaining to me.    Also I love your hair. Don't let bitches attack the bun.
Your beautiful just the way you are, and i really mean that, god has a plan for all of us keep doing your thing my angel.
How the hell did I miss this channel till now? I should have trusted Lindsay Ellis weeks before
When you're more attracted to the Becky than the stacy......
Everytime I learn about a deep, dark corner of the web, I can only think "there but for the grace of god go I."  I feel like I check all the boxes for the life experience that would produce an incel, but I'm very thankful I don't think like one.
InCels are blatantly pathetic, mockable and low hanging fruit IMO. Boys who can't get laid because of a pathological obsession with high standards (they won't "get with" a woman who are beneath their cheerleader standards) and take this out on the jocks who can bed the cheerleaders, who they also take this out on.   When people talk about InCels I find it amusing that nobody ever talks about the FemCels, the women who write articles about how you're a piece of garbage if you don't fuck fat women and how they're owed sexual attention from society and they're owed celebration and appreciation sexually and how women are owed an orgasm etc. These are the much more interesting InCels to me.
ur sexist
Please make another video soon. I need this in my life.
whats so bad about 4chan?
"At least these pricks care enough about my pussy, to be an asshole about my dick!"
Well I thought this would be a boring retread or ideological gobbledygook based on the title and thumbnail. Suffice it to say that my initial judgement was completely wrong.  The way you wove in self-examined personal experience made the explanation of the incel phenomenon fresh and engaging, even though I had some familiarity with it already. Furthermore, the nuance of your position clearly shows you put a lot of thought into it.  On top of all of that, your presentation is by turns both amusing and theatrical, making it a delight to watch. I've subscribed and will be taking a look at your other content as well.
"Chadsplaining"! Ha ha ha! Thank you for your lovely, informative, marvelous videos.
You're totally hot hun.
I was just taught about the inherent sexuality of the ocean and this video has 666k views im subbing
I think the thing that actual makes me angry when I consider incels or read their writings is that there are actual medical conditions in the world that render sexual intercourse not only physically impossible but, in some cases, entirely absent of any 'stimulation' (for lack of a better term). In a world where there are countries that have legalized sex work any incel who carefully saves their money will be able to at the very least have sex while there are people who have no chance to experience either casual or intimate sex due to an accident of birth or nature no matter how much money they will ever have.  On another note, I am going to do my part in ensuring that the majority of my friends get to hear about Foppington's Law.
Excellent video.
It's kind of crazy to me that as a 21 year old woman I actually understand the though process that goes along with the rhetoric of incels. Now let me be clear I DO NOT SUPPORT THE BEHAVIOR, THE COMMUNITY OR THE THINKING, but as someone who grew up extremely lacking in self worth and self esteem, hat eventually evolved into a socially anxious 21 year old with no history of relationships or sexual past (not for lack of trying) I understand the process that goes into this self mutilating thought process. I would think of my self as less than, as unfuckable, unlovable and as a waste for someone to be with, my self worth matched pretty well with the beginnings of incel behavior, the difference in my case is I was lucky enough to grow up in a time where body positivity, mental health and overall self acceptance for women became extremely prevelant in society. When I was upset and self destructive I didn't have the chance to fall into an abusive community because for the most part all of the communities I found as a woman were very open about getting help, understanding your thinking and accepting yourself. I firmly believe that if I hadn't come up in a place where it was acceptable to have feelings, Express feelings, talk about myself and understand my worth I would be a much worse person than I am now. I do honestly feel like a lot of these behaviours stem from thoughts that we've all had and mix with the fact that most men are not allowed to be seen having emotions, can't pursue passions for fear of masculine ideals and have no outlet or positive pushes into society that we women do. And I'm not blaming feminism, women empowerment movements, or even brushing over Incel behaviour, but merely stating that men in today's society have as much pressure to become an ideal as much as women do, it's just with men there is less of an openness in their own communities to understand these feelings and a safe place to discuss the toxicity of it and find solutions.   Sorry for the essay, great video!
I love watching this video, ‘cause it makes me feel like a kid getting life advice from a really cool aunt ❤️
not to mention that 'red pill' was a metapher for transition in the movie matrix by the then closeted trans wachoswki sisters. :D
you are so pretty. I literally choked when I saw you, like uh wow visual queen
nice ich bin nerd #DDC
I brushed with - for lack of a better term - “incelhood” a few years ago. I haven’t have sex for 6 years (4 at the time) and thought it was everybody else’s fault but mine. However, after a few months of self-imposed therapy, I started to develop a more introspective view of myself; realizing that I had let myself go with terrible personal hygiene (I’m still paying the price for that albeit with a more positive outlook) and I was catastrophizing everything. And I mean EVERYTHING.  I’ve always been socially awkward, but never let that get in the way of making friends; however I’ve also always had with low self-esteem. However through therapy, I took the small steps required to climb out of the hole I dug myself into. We are our own worst enemy.  I still sympathize with Incels on a base level, but I have to agree with that whole “mom” thing; I just want to grab them, put them in front of a mirror, and tell them “LOOK AT WHAT YOU DID!”  Excellent video with nuanced opinions. You’ve got a new sub.
This is the first time I hear the word Incel, I cone from Italy. I completely disagree with them but I would like to ask you all a question. It looks like you have some kind of issues with short, ugly and shy guys. Why do you judge them on the basis of their appearance? I think ee should judge someone by his personality and qualities. Incels think false things but I can't say that all those journalists or bloggers are better than them, because with their words they could hurt all those guys who have difficulties with girls but respect them. Thinking that you're worth nothing just because you are not tall and manly is the most stupid thing you could do, because maybe you don't even know the people you're judging.
I am an extremely curious creature... that is the reason I opened the door to spirituality. But in all my questions, in all my yearning searches, I've never been so curious that I had to understand the very fabric of someone's gleam at me. This is a product of low self-esteem. The mind is wired wrong if it absolutely has to have the truth of every response of every encounter. And truth in many cases, will never be known anyway. This is a world of perceptions. Have a better one of yourself and you'll never swallow that black pill.
my skull messed up  no love for me
were you in theatre??
Scary :( They must hate each other as well.. sui fuel???
I’ve never seen tour videos before but you are MY MOM
Strange how they choose skulls, which can be changed through surgery. And if they want to imply skull size is indicative of intelligence, they’re really wrong. I mean, the skull of the Tyrannosaurus Rex is fucking enormous but they weren’t known for being smart, whereas Ravens are very intelligent but their skulls are pretty small all things considered. In short: they’re dumb.
I **need** a podcast from you!!
roosh justifying baking to himself is such a mood tbh
i came in the end. i came to the sea
Wow what an important video
There’s a lot of misinformation out there about what exactly fascism is. Most people think of brutal, oppressive, genocidal regimes with aspirations of world domination when they think of fascism. Nothing could be further from the truth.  So why should you be a fascist? Fascists believe that the state (or people, or nation) is just as valuable as the individual. It’s not a case of one or the other, as some anti-fascists will have you believe. Instead, we recognize that there should be a sensible balance between individual liberty and national health. If individual liberty means, as it does in Europe and America, the freedom to behave in ways that are degenerative not only to the individual, but to the state itself, then individual liberty should be curbed. Fascism is authoritarian and “zero-tolerance” because we recognize that there are such things as good and evil, right and wrong, and that some things should never be allowed.  Rather than focusing merely on freedom for its own sake, fascism promotes excellence. Fascists recognize that people make mistakes, and bad things happen. But that’s no reason to give in and pretend that sickness is normal. Take the family for example. The nuclear family is, we believe, the core of the state. It is absolutely vital and should be protected. We’ve got a sickening divorce rate, children by the millions being born out of wedlock into unstable, often dangerous homes, or no home at all, being raised by one parent or no parent. The “free market” has created an environment where both parents are often forced to work just to support themselves, let alone any children they might have. There was a time when a man could work 40 hours a week and support a wife and kids, along with a house and a car. We’ve let those values slip away and it’s cost us more than we’ll ever know. Fascists don’t pretend that broken families are normal or healthy. We recognize that children need to be raised by a mother and a father.  Fascists don’t believe in the sort of false equality that people think of and promote so much these days. We believe in hierarchy and structure, based on natural principles. Men and women are different. We have different tendencies and instincts, strengths and weaknesses. When women try to make themselves men by subscribing to the poison of feminism, they contribute to the destruction of the natural order. We believe that races are different. We have different levels of development, cultures, and modes of living. What works for one group doesn’t necessarily work for another group, let alone every group. That doesn’t mean any group has the right to oppress any other group; it simply means that boundaries need to be set up for the good of all. Instead of treating people the way we think they should be treated based on some arbitrary concept of equality, fascists recognize people for who they are and treat them accordingly. Low-IQ individuals don’t need  to try to conform to western educational standards in order to be valued, and western educational systems shouldn’t lower their standards to accommodate them. We say let everyone develop naturally, without interference from anyone else.  I could go on, but the last thing I’ll say is that fascists are also committed to a form of socialism. This isn’t the conflict-based, degenerative kind of socialism found in the doctrines of people like Marx and Lenin. Instead, it’s a socialism that sees people provided with a supportive system and tools to actually improve their lives, rather than simply lining their pockets  at the expense of others.  There are a lot of excellent reasons to become a Fascist. Do your own research and educate yourself on what fascism actually is and what fascists have actually done. I speak for a lot of Facists when I say that we are deeply disturbed by the lies that have been propagated about these systems and their adherents.
At least 4chan's papercraft board is pretty dope.
The ending was great
Yes, men can do things to be more approachable, but Women could also be the same. In today's dating, there have been many woman who have become way too critical. Sometimes they'll reject perfectly ok man for almost no reason. Other than that perfectly great video.
17:31 holy shit you're trans? I didn't fucking suspect this at all. Good God damn job on transitioning holy shit. gg.
Lol I took the black pill except I skipped steps 6-9
Thank you for making this video. This has really opened my eyes on how not to deal with my own situation (as a virgin), as well being a kind of black mirror, since I followed a similar (if less extreme) train of thought in the past.
FEEEEEMOIDS!!
tranny owns incels
Very informative and surprisingly funny. You're a great personality.
incest rebellion
I’m a personalitycel,my personality drives women away :’(
Maybe male incels should just go for ugly women
I think contra is beautiful!
I mean ... at least they'd die off due to lack of re-production ?
Thanks for not advocating the "Incels deserve to be shot" mentality I often see around.
YOUR VOICE IS SO SOOTHING AND SOFT OMGG
FEEEEEEEEEEEEEMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOIIIIIIIIIIIIDDDDDDDDDDDDDDSSSSSSSSSSSSS
OKAY YEP THANKS FOR KEEP RECOMMENDING ME THIS YOUTUBE
I love you so much!
Can we get a two-hour video of this girl describing none sexual things as sexual?
Respect women
I once did cocaine off a thai boy's ball-sack and that first post had me cringing.
Would you ever consider doing a makeup tutorial? Your eyes look fantastic
I was playing World of Warcraft while listening to this and I misheard "For Queen Azshara!" as "Fuck me, Azshara!". Not 2 cents, just a funny moment
Time to play: are all the dislikes terfs or incels?
Fun, reasonably balanced vid. Definitely being a guy on dating apps can be frustrating.  I think I can craft a pretty mean message, have a decent face, and don't bring up my dick at the earliest opportunity, and even then it took quite a bit of work to get a date I was excited about.  I think it's true that women tend to aim for people who look better than they do on tinder and the like...but it goes both ways.  My friends who are, like, fine-looking I guess, would be left-swiping anyone who didn't look supermodel-esque, because of this illusion of choice.  When you only get opportunities with a few new women every week/month/etc, you're going to give them a chance if you have even a passing physical attraction.  But if you're scanning through thousands of extremely attractive women, suddenly you think you aren't being selective enough if you right-swipe someone who isn't smoking hot.  Because now you have this idea that you COULD get a smoking-hot woman, and it only takes one of them to find your weird wispy mustache attractive!  Why don't any of these supermodels right-swipe you back???  Been in a great, steady relationship with an amazing woman for 2.5 years now, thanks to OKC.  It could be fun, it could be frustrating, but most of all, it was a lot of work.  You might have to do some critical self-examination about how you portray yourself.  But eventually you'll have something to show for it.
YouTube recommended this video to me out of nowhere and I was so glad it did! Your points were excellent and very well explained and the level of detail in your presentation were wonderful! I especially loved the full costume change in those short scenes for added effect. I’m subscribing and I’m usually picky. :)  I also wanted to say how gorgeous you are! You presented yourself as a woman and I 100% thought you were a born and bred female until you said otherwise. Thanks for sharing your personal stories and making the parallels between your experiences and aspects of the incel community!
I believe you should try to get some help.
wtf..... how have I never heard of this channel..... where have you been all my life??? and for the record you are fucking beautiful and not in a "everyone is beautiful in their own way" as in 10/10 would smash.
(idk if you'll see this on a month-old video BUT) 1. Your voice actually sounds great, and 2. How do you get it to sound like that? Not sounding like a dude is haaaaarrd
oh hi incels! im a 26 y/o feeeemoiid who has had a few previous relationships with regular dudes my age. i had a son with my last ex. but now for 5 years i have been dating a man almost twice my age. he has a disability (slipped discs in the back) hes not rich, hes starting to go bald, and he has a lil belly  (sry luv lol) ..ive NEVER been so in love though. were getting married and i hope we have kids one day. so analyze that ! and no im def not ugly if thats what an incel would say . im with dan by choice <3  i love you dan!
Is this channel a parody, or an actual sjw channel it seems like a parody but if it’s an actual sjw channel I want to like it but I Don’t agree with that pose in politics
Came for the bread scientist, found humour, knowledge and inspiration ... and learned about skulls - I'm staying
(hears "110 pounds of recreational equipment")  Brain:   *T h a t ' s   a   l o t   o f   d i l d o s.*
i've been holding off on watching this video bc i knew it would be Upsetting. that said, i loved it. and i read a term recently--"crab bucket" for when a community is just a self hating mess that drags everyone down into the pit of rage and despair.
...I need to do some re-evaluations on my life choices. I think I'm an aquaphile now.
That's the smartest, funniest, and most humanly sensitive video I've seen about incels. You're a gorgeous light kindly diving into obscurantism. Love that. So happy to have a look to your video list and observe I'll enjoy bunch of hours watching your work.  Thumbs up !
The exploration of the mental illness within the incel community as an accelerating factor was a really interesting take, lots of good takes here.
I was an Incel till I was 16. 16 years an incel!!!      Then I lost my virginity.
I hope Olly washed out his mouth with soap after this.
How a woman fe... WAIT THAT ISN'T A WOMAN!!!! THAT'S A BLOKE! A BLOKE IS SHEILA'S CLOTHES
Welp. I'm sorry I watched that now. Not that you shouldn't have made this, or that you did a bad job or presented points badly,  but because I was reminded of the existence of and learned more about things I really didn't want to know about. Good job on the video anyhow.
Okay I'm just gonna say it. This video got weird at the end.
Kinda got pissed at YouTube for putting this in my recommended videos group. Thought it was a pro-redpill vid. And I might not have gotten out for a while, but I'm not an Incel. Though yeah, in dark moments I might have shared some of their ideas.  Not certain if this is appropriate to say. But since looks became a topic of the video, and you display yourself. I wouldn't call you gorgeous. And yeah, I can see you used to be a man. I don't think that means you look bad, ugly or weird. Just different.  Your voice sound totally normal to me. Props for making this video though, that takes courage.
Incels are self pitying arseholes who have no sense of how humans work. Also human you are very funny and your self depricating humour is hilarious.
Thank you for talking about this, because if I had 2018's internet when I was in high school there's a very real chance I would have fallen into inceldom. Also fuck yeah Hebrides Overture.
Incels want a reward without hard work or effort ... Incels are communists.
12:11 I had a gag reflex, literally and honestly
IT'S NOT COOKING, IT'S SCIENCE! I EVEN HAVE THE BEARD TO BACK IT UP!
I wanna see that bread guy take up another "woman" hobby, like quilting. "You see, quilting requires precision.. You have to measure the fabric and use math to find the area of the quilt. It's math. Men love math. I'm not a quilter, I'm a blanket mathematician."
I think you look significantly better as a woman than you did as a man.
My bakes are on point. 👌😎
I just found your channel, and I love your content. It's funny, entertaining, keeps my attention the whole time, and so well though out! I just wish that you could post once a week!
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=td1PbsV6B80
I found this channel from this video and after watching, well, everything, I've got to say it's been a weird, sometimes unpleasant, but ultimately worthwhile journey
This is a very compelling mix of depressing, fascinating, hilarious, frightening and informative.
How are you so magical?
im mad. i just told my so like, "I found this channel just now and shes hot as hell and stuff.. then youre like. you used to be a man and now your e a chick that likes men' and its unfair.  i wish you became a chick that liked chicks! youre TOO FUCKEN HOT. stop that. >:(
People are afraid to talk about ethnic differences. There's a reason for it; everything that we know about ethnic differences came from a time of hatred and bigotry. In fact, most of our knowledge about skull shapes came from genocide and mass starvation(of the variety induced by systemic forces). And while we hate to admit it, a significant amount of medical knowledge come from Josef Melenge's Experiments. For those of you who don't know, Menengle was SS officer and head physician at Auschwitz. He experimented on people that became unfit for labor.  But it's true. Ethnic skulls shapes are a thing. There's nothing wrong with it. Some of it is due to evolution. My ancestors needed to survive a harsh ice age in small tribes of 14-30 people. In such circumstances, changes happen quick. Hence, my slanted and small eyes. They're there to help me avoid snow blindness. --------- A cousin of mine's used to work in cosmetics. I know, most people have this internal hatred for the industry, because they feel like it basically lets people lie about themselves. To that I say, bullshit. Cosmetic surgery is just permanent makeup. It's as deceptive as the makeup women wear everyday.  He told me that there's a science for attractiveness. Psychologist have been trying to really pin down on what people consider attractiveness to no avail, but that's only because psychologist have a duty to make sure their findings don't hurt our feelings. My cousin however, was a mean mofo. The reason why we find people attractive is because health is attractive. Yes, that's right. Chad and his muscles and height, his skin tone and unblemished face is a biological marker for health. It's hard science. Stacy is attractive because she's healthy too. It's not a choice whether or not we find these people attractive. They're attractive because we evolved in a way to find healthy people attractive. And it makes sense - you want healthy parents to make healthy children.  But don't let this get to you. Do what I do. I proudly announce that I am by all accounts, a loser. I'm a gamer, I've been one since childhood. I play chess. I read, on my fucking PC no less. Sure, I know how to box and sprag out, but I don't have that look if you know what I mean. I still made friends. I agree, girls can be very annoying(there's even science pointing out that a wife's nagging shortens her husband's lifespan). Just ignore them. Women can't handle as much stress because they don't have as much testosterone to help them with cortisol spikes. Enjoy what you've always been doing. It's your happiness, it's your choice.
I told my friend "Plese stop sending me weird right wing propaganda or youtube will start recommending me political stuff" and now here I am. I've spent almost half an hour listening about a random subject that I've no interest just so I could understand why her voice sounded so weird, and the answer was way more than I expected...I know that this have no relation to the topic of the video but I needed to vent.
This video got me to sub. Love it
Absolutely genius
Holy shit youve blown up so fast wow
I think, to some degree (don't quote me on this or think I'm trying to marginalize, just a thought), almost all teenage guys could relate to the incels, minus the extreme misogyny and suicidal worldview (though there are people who would agree with the latter). I'm a freshman in college, 18 years old, and I've never had a girlfriend, and the farthest I've gone was a stage kiss. All that while I overheard other guys bragging about their sexual conquests and the ease with which they seem to get laid and find intimacy, and I could only think "what am I doing wrong?" I was so awkward with women (still am for the most part), partly because I couldn't get the idea of progressing to a relationship with them out of my head and just think of them as a friend. I try to just engage with women or reach out to better my chances of finding one that I could actually start a meaningful relationship with, but it's either a constant friend zone situation or they think I'm harassing them, which is not in any way what I am doing. I'm not a small guy (I'm 6'1") and I've always been pretty big for my age, so I don't really think I would've associated with the incel community, but I can at least sympathize with some of what they struggle with.  I don't want this to come off that I support or condone what they represent, because it is deeply harmful to guys my age and dehumanizing to women. I simply want to say that, from what I can assume, many of the guys being exposed to this movement initially are in my camp: lonely, depressed and wishing that they could find something real with another human being, and wondering what else they could do without changing who they are to succeed.  PS. I hope it doesn't come as a rant, I just was very inspired by the video and have had some things I needed to get off my chest.
What do incels think about lesbians? Like, they're not fucking them, but they're also not fucking chads? Do they think they're just pretending to like other women because the chads find it hot?
Nice Shaun Cameo at 6:13
Omg I’m a catasrophizer. My sense of reality sucks. What if I’m hallucinating and this is all a dream! What if I’m totally crazy!
Good video I never have watched a trans youtuber
That ending was uh...something.
Hello. I just wanted to let you know that I think you're a goddamn treasure! I don't know how the youtube algorithms work, or why your video on incels was recommended to me, when most of my video watching is usually movie analysis, but I'm glad it did. I've watched a few of your videos now, but I came back to this one, because I found it really intriguing. As a sex-repulsed asexual, I always found the thought processes of incels (and others in the man-o-sphere) morbidly fascinating. I especially enjoyed your take on it. I wish I wasn't just some penniless schmuck up to my ears in debt, or I'd gladly become a patron. Keep doing what you're doing and I will definitely stick around! Much love!  ♦
first video ive seen of yours and i gotta say i love it ^ if it makes you feel better i had no idea you were trans just from looking at you and your channel reminds of quite alot of nerdcity.  youve earned yourself a subscriber and keep up the good work!
This is the most beautiful ASMR video i've ever watched.
Holy shit you are so aesthetic and awesome I am so happy I found your channel. Totally subbing! 🖤
Wake up! The incel movement is really a globalist chad conspiracy to keep the beta masses down.
This was amazing, thank you for making it!
Wow! This actually opened my eyes to a world  I was absolutely ignorant to. Initially watched for the lolz (new subscriber here) but greatly mistaken. A very important the message many communities and people. I’ve share tia on my twitter and on my Facebook. Hopefully it reaches the people that need to see it.
"all my friends love ContraPoints, what's all this about-"  > 0:03  Aight subscribed
"This kind of hatred only needs a spark to turn to violence."  But spreading anti-white, anti-western rhetoric in universities and across the mainstream media is so "benign" and hasn't lead to any violence at all, right?  White people in South Africa probably disagrees though.
How does the language and ideas of Incels differ from terms like "patriarchy", "the glass ceiling", "white privilige", "Toxic masculinity", "Islamophobia" and the rest? :)  Can't say I see any reason not to simply lump the incels and you feminists, BLM-activists, antifa and general social justice advocates into the same, nutbag group really.
Just discovered this. Fantastic video. Looking forward to more.
A skull is inanimate and unchangeable... Just like your gender.
whoever's voice that was reading it made it slightly sexier but that was still a very very uncomfortable monologue to jump start his video..
There was a period in my 20s when I wonder if I might have been susceptible to this kind of ideology.  From the time I graduated college until I was nearly 30, I had an 8-year dry spell.  I don't think I ever quite hated women, but I definitely felt bitter.  Interestingly, it was around the time that I started studying leftist and feminist ideas that that all started to change.  After I learned to deconstruct the whole "nice guy" syndrome and actually worked on my own shit, I suddenly found women were interested in me.  Funny how that works.
This was a damn good look at the incel community and its terrible perspective of themselves and  of women. Ive been to 4chan's /r9k/ and /lgbt/ and while i didnt exactly realize it at the time, you're absolutely right about how those communities are entirely about being a giant self-depreciative circle jerk. thank you for this fantastic video
Honestly I've been avoiding this video from my recommendation because I thought it would be typical "incels are dumb lol" type of video, I'm honestly pleasantly surprised it's actually have a lot of good feed backs for them at are self loathing in general, even for that of a non incels
"Volcel if you wouldn't." I'm fucking dead.
They always cry about 'never being able to experience this'.   Seriously, if you're that desperate, just hire a prostitute.  It's not ideal, but at least you're not going to go insane by lack of pussy.
I knew there are dark corners in the internet, but I can't shake the feeling of being glad it took a youtube video to explain some of them to me.
Ya know what I have to say to this? Sucks for them! Hahahahahaha   In all seriousness, this is what happens when you become a misogynist because you cant get laid. Just go to Thailand
This is a really great video thanks for the insight. Your outfit is gorges.
They're really setting up a theory on their own misery? wew
Why is it always about the skull? All skeletal features are on a spectrum too! The skull isn't some magical sex determination tool for the skeleton, there are women with prominent supra-orbital ridges and men without them and literally every other trait/feature of the skeleton, skull included, is on a spectrum. Just because a TV police drama shows forensics experts taking one glance at a skeleton and determining its sex, race, age, etc with absolute certainty, does not mean that's true. Its really not. Source: Literally doing my Ph.D on osteoarchaeology right now? Involves lots of forensics and osteology classes. Its great fun.
Oceanumphillia
What silly people.
"apart from his narcissistic psychopathic personality, Elliot Rodger was a eminently bangable twink"
Okay no but seriously why does it always come back to skulls?
"The manosphere exists because rock 'n roll is dead."  Perfect.
Incels don't know that fat women who can't get laid exist and that is funny because those women know that it's just something kind of randomly unfair and they find ways of coping other than getting violently angry.
They can just go to prostitutes if they just want to have sex or if they have my mail order bride not that hardSays you’re just focusing on sex
Maybe I'm just stupid but I didnt even notice she was trans in the beginning
but i thought incels are right, ok?
I feel like a lot of pick up artists are unknowingly on the same side of the coin as incels. They have almost the same views of women except instead of feeling depressed about their own looks, they feel empowered to abuse women because of their own looks.
As a cis man who is sexually attracted to trans women I must say I am surprised you feel that you need ANY cosmetic surgery. To me you are absolutely gorgeous. Just sayin.
I love your lighting
I also feel like one of the reasons incels feel so hopeless is because (Western) society really doesn't teach men to have emotionally supportive relationships with each other. Essentially, they're supposed to rely on their mothers and girlfriends/wives for all their emotional support. So when a man feels denied access to a partner, that essentially amounts to him feeling that he's been denied access to an emotional support network altogether. (Which I suppose is what incels are talking about when they say they'll never know what it's like to be loved). Meanwhile, women are taught to be vulnerable with and emotionally supportive to each other from a young age. That function is just built into societal conventions of female friendship. And heterosexual men in the West aren't even allowed to be physically affectionate with each other, so these dudes are touch starved as well. Which is a long-winded way of saying that if we just let men hug and talk about their feelings with each other they'd probably be a lot less awful.  Men, hug your best bro and tell him about how sad you are. I promise it's the best when your emotional support isn't contingent on all the messiness that comes with sexual attraction and romantic relationships.
This was a fantastic video, and really hit me aa someone who used to have incel-ish thoughts before the term existed. Thank you so much for this. You're also hilarious! You've got a new subscriber :)
When checking out the infographics in this video, I just can't keep myself from chuckling. Who actually thinks up all that crap?
as a fellow trans girl "that's a lot baltemorian men that swiped right on a trans" made me actually die lmao!
'Yes, I like cooking, but that doesn't make me a woman!'   Yeah, duh.  Have your heard of Gordon fucking Ramsey?
That bit with the David Attenborough sound alike was priceless. lol
at the start of the video i was gonna compliment your bomb af makeup but... TTTT is actually just a circle jerk, using their tears as lubricant, denying they're enjoying it because they want to pretend they suddenly feel gender dysphoria enough to get past transition gatekeeping. i had an inkling that you might be trans but damn gurl, enjoy that passing privilege, free of TTTT.
Very good video. You are very feminine and reminds me Jaime Murray.
Jesus.   At some points during this video I got afraid because I started seeing myself in the descriptions of the incels, but I was then comforted once it got to shit like "They believe that women did this to them" and "Women are inherently selfish" and all that jazz.   I am a guy who has very low confidence. Throughout my life I was presented with very little validation, mostly heart-ache, and a general talent for having bad luck. My self confidence suffered heavily from abuse I went through (when I say my luck was bad, I mean that I was molested and orally raped by a female neighbor for 3 years during my childhood, was stalked at age 12, and again at 15, was assaulted and caressed inappropriately without consent by a teacher at 16 and by a stranger in Chicago at 14, lived with an alcoholic mother who would very verbally violent, and I saw try to kill herself on my living room floor when I was in 8th grade, just in general shit never seemed to go well), I really started to believe that I was unworthy of respect and I still suffer from those creeping insecurities at times.   I guess things that stop me from being "incel" is that I hold myself accountable for my own happiness. Now that isn't exactly a perfect worldview I often excused people who hurt and took advantage of me (which is probably why it happened so often) but there are times when I get to my lowest points, and tell myself "It is not your fault that people hurt you, you were just a child, there's nothing you could've done to deserve it" and "You're miserable right now, but are you doing anything to try and feel better?"  Despite the fact that I don't blame women for my problems, there have been times where I'm scared of marrying someone who will hurt and take advantage of me in the ways incels believe all women do. I think it mainly stems from the fact that until recently, I was often ridiculed and mocked for having been abused by women. Today's societal current is changing, and recognizing all types of abuse as terrible is one of my personal favorite changes happening now.   But despite that, it's been ingrained into me that there's a possibility that my future wife will have a higher chance of receiving our children during a divorce regardless of whether or not she deserves them. And especially the feeling I've always had that if I am hurt by a woman, no one will care or sympathize, because it took till 10th grade for me to find someone who consoled me when I told of my trauma instead of being laughed at (don't worry though, I had a whole group of kids in my science class that year that mocked me for it when I admitted it one day, just God making sure I don't feel too safe in my own skin)  Now I don't like the idea that a guy feeling these things and having these fears is "incel-like", because I compare it to woman being afraid of sexual violence. Statistically, that man standing on the other side of the bus stop when you're alone at night, is very unlikely to hurt you. But it's *possible", and it's *scary*. I myself have been mocked by women and men alike for having a very similar fear towards women when I'm alone with them in public. Yeah, the possibility of them actually hurting me is low, but because of what I've been through, I know that it's possible, and it has me scared.   I know first-hand through multiple experiences just how exactly women can hurt me, but for fucks sake, it is not a representation of all women. Just like a total piece of shit like Elliott Rogers is not a living synecdoche for men. My ex girlfriends are  not every girl. My abusive neighbor, my hebephile teacher, and that craggily old bitch who stalked me when I was 12 are not all women. I think the incel's problem is that they likely don't even have experiences like this, they see women so far outside the realm of human that they don't get close enough to even know what things can even actually hurt them. And it's not "women" hurting you, it's people and human selfishness. Women and men are both equally capable of being cruel and shallow because they're *all human*.   I think what incels don't realize is that "the perfect relationship" doesn't exist, not even between a Chad and a Stacy. Surprisingly enough, Chads and Stacys still have their own personalities. Almost no one is constantly always happy with relationships. Dating isn't easy. I have had three LTRs within the last 16 years, and none of them ended very well. They've done major blows to my confidence and I do believe that I was in the right for all three, and even if it has made me hesitant to date it doesn't change the fact that I love women and hope to one day be good enough for the one that will be good to me.   *(Sorry this comment is really disjointed and overly personal and I don't even really know what the point of it is but since I haven't really had anywhere to vent or talk about things, but this video really got me thinking about my views on love. This is my first Contra video too, and I fucking love it. Subbed)*
First time viewer, first time commenter. I'm impressed. o7
Just discovered you not long ago, but your videos are fantastic and well crafted. Just saying props on killing it <3
Damn I want to go for a swim now.
That.... was deeply fascinating and worrying.
ContraPoints is beautiful! Thanks!
So... I thought a lot if I was going to post here or not. The youtube comment section is kind of a cesspool, and this probably will be buried. But this video will be my reason to subscribe to you, after seeing various videos of yours.  I actually discovered this channel from Lindsay Ellis, and coming here and seeing someone takling this subject, not only thoroughly, but also with a (gasp!) empathetic and maybe a bit simpathetic mind was just a breath of fresh air. Incels, while spewing various egregious and hateful thoughts, have become one of those common denominators where you are "allowed" to bash, and seeing you opening up about your own personal and past issues and insecurities in a way to close the gap and humanize them made me really respect you. Don't know what a random comment from a dude from Brazil means to you, but I think you are a swell gal, Natalie. Edit: Oh yeah. I also now have a fetish for the ocean. So thanks for that.
🍞 scientist
I think you are wonderful. Thanks for this
Cool, youre a trans pansexual woman! ✌🏼 Btw i had no idea you were trans until you outright said it, I've heard cis women who sound like you, that and you look like a regular gal, so i think you did great!
I've never watched another ContraPoints video. I found this very funny, and I'll watch more. Viva La Baltimore  =p
Incels are the neo-lombrosians
Um actually, incels share blackpill, redpill is a mgtow thing. Nice video though!
"at least these dicks care enough about my pussy to be an asshole about my dick" is probably the hardest I've laughed at a joke in a while
Omg this vid was actually very constructive. I hope this vid blows up and more people can see it. Imma go binge watch your entire channel now bai
that was really good except i cant swim so bit afraid of the water embracing all my contours
I have no interest in telling you what you should do or how you should look, I just want to let you know that I think your face as it is right now is just amazingly gorgeous and literally you could be a model
Incels are mentally ill people. Just like you.
Ok what was that opening song? I That hit hard
enjoyed the video until "bread scientist" and then laughed uncontrollably fell off my chair and couldn't finish...
17:30 wow dude couldn't tell you were a guy before, it's so subtle
This video helped me even as a white gay cis guy, albeit a depressed one...I just wanted you to know this
hey a youtuber i find unique, interesting, relatable and not a piece of shit! that only happens every blue moon :)
Halfway through, came up with a drinking game. Take a sip every time you cringe.
Just passing by to say, that you're not passing. You're looking like a dude that lost a bet and has to wear dress and wig for a day or something.  If you're seriously rolling with that absolutely ridiculous and humorous voice, then I just don't know what to say...
OLLY
wait what ? did you just tell all the incels to drown themselves in the sea ? probably not... NEXT VIDEO YOUTOOBE!
BONES! BONES!
wtf, this comment section is so reasonable. It's almost as if Contrapoint's content attracts reasonable & thoughtful people.
It's sad, but there really is a line. Some people really are incredibly ugly. Some trans people really can't possibly pass as the sex they desire to be without intense surgery. Those are just facts. Our brains are crazy good at facial details, it's why the uncanny valley is a thing. A lot of people in these communities are falsely believing they're ugly or wouldn't pass as the opposite sex, but it's still true for lots of them. How we do hold the balance point in our perception of ourselves? To evaluate ourselves as we are, like we're looking at another person.   I've done the internet self-harm thing about being a short guy because in my life it really has mattered. Lots of women have told me very specifically they weren't interested solely because of my height, that I'm fun and attractive, but too short. So I know it matters. But I've gotten laid, and by some very attractive ladies, so I know it doesn't matter to all of them. But it is crazy how easy it is to let the dark thoughts build, to convince myself I'm unworthy on so many levels. Glad I never got into hating women, not even when I dove into MGTOW for a while. I believe too much in the primacy of the individual to think a group of people are all the same because of being the same sex. It's hypocritical to claim to be going your own way while focusing intense hatred against women and blaming all your problems on them. Just fucking go your own way, do your thing, embrace life. There are issues in society for sure, but going my own way is primarily about avoiding the sheer work of parenthood, not hating women. I don't trust myself when a horny lady says it's ok to fuck her without a condom. I have historically gone ahead with it and feel so lucky I haven't made any accidental babies. Babies, marriage, and the typical modern life are all very expensive and I don't want to work that much. Rather just live in a tiny house of some kind, garden, and chill with friends. Sex isn't very important, I can just wank away the compulsion and come back to thinking clearly
I wish the idea of a man in a dress wasn’t off-putting to people, I really think as a society we need to work on that
My skull's shape did change... but, I had brain surgery.
Maybe the goal isn’t to fucking attract a mate maybe this shit happens naturally maybe suahwjsmiuhcawdouhc
My wrist is tiny and that’s spicy
This is why gender stereotypes need to STOP. Fucking john lewis gendered toys fuck off
....this is not parody? I'm scared and confused at the same time
Fucking unobtanium
The research this must have taken... I'm so sorry. But also wow.yikes.oh.interesting.
Thank you, I didn't know I needed more dry heaving in my day
Totally irrelevant but ur cute as heck
Pls make a new video soon
At least men care enough about my pussy to be an asshole about my dick. lololol such a great line.
lol - "Volcel if you Wouldn't Bitches" :D   so my takeaway is if you want Contrpoints to read your comment and notice you just be really, really mean and derogatory???!?  compliments just get lost with all the other meaningless compliments.
That outro made me subscribe
I'm coming out as an baker: A historically male dominated profession.
<3 Tiffany Tumbles is such a great character!
God I hate self proclaimed “nice guys”
Contrapoints is stunning
Just in case no one has gotten around to telling you today: you are gorgeous and elegant!  And your cheekbones are marvelous.😍
I LOVE THE LIGHTING SO MUCH
you are amazing, i love this vid
“A priori and dogmatic” immediately gave me Critique of Pure Reason PTSD and I’m not over it.   Anyway this video is so well done. The wording you choose is so careful, your points are sensitively and objectively put, you build up to strong, interesting points. Also this is the most depth I’ve seen on Incels, and I’m totally thinking of them in a different light. AND this was really funny.   Can’t wait to watch more of your stuff!!
Hmmmmmmm... I just found out today that I got unsubscribed from your channel. Re-subscribed. Thank you for making these videos.
you were doing great, up until the part you said jordan peterson was a "sexist old man."
This probably one of the most useless bits of information concerning the issue of "incels". Let alone being misleading right from the start: "In this video i dont want to mock incels or lecture them.." and she proceeds to mostly mock and occasionally lecture those she considers to be "incels". Also, what is the aim of the video (besides the obvious clickbait)? An incel will rather not be watching your video and taking lessons from you. Aperson who probably knows someone fitting in the description of an incel, as laid out, will rather develop hatred or be encouraged in his antipathy towards that person, thus not willing to take any steps which might help the "incel" to change. Great way to push a potential mass murderer over the edge instead doing any service to society.
hemmaroids are female interesting femoids
I mean this doesn't sound very nice when I say it like that, but the good thing is they probably wont reproduce.
Hahhaah 'Bread Scientist'.
Incels should NEVER be themselves, women are superficial creatures, offer them a social position, glamour and keep an emotional distance to them while you share beds with them. Offer them material stuff and opportunities for Instagram status and they will stay with you. Buy them clothing, jewelry, trips, organize for them to get into nice parties and get photo ops. Do-not-ever-talk-deep-or-intellectual-stuff-with-them. Women need assurance and for the world to be kind and inclusive. Do not EVER reply to her initiation of political or philosophical discussion, she just heard something on the news and wanna talk it off. Not actually delve into it in a serious matter. Women are a bit like children, if they ask questions don`t throw the whole reality on them. REMEMBER this!! You need to put away sides to yourself which you should only share with other males. I know feminist women who loooove bad boys, they stopped dating cute guys who turned out to be soft/emotional and ”kind”. These women are in conflict woth themselves. Do NOT lose your youth getting brainwashed by feminists who don`t buy their own bullshit. Don`t treat women bad, just accept nature and you will be happy. Don`t follow toxic people. Join traditionalists. Be a man.
Brilliant video! Take my Sub damn it! Take it now!
There’s so much about this that reminds me of the eating disorder corner of the internet. Some dangerous xanga pages really fucked me up in the early 2000s and I know they still exist today. “Thinspo”, pet names for the disorders themselves, posting selfies expressly for negative feedback...
You are so god damn gorgeous !!!
1. Sex is really good but even trying new things all the time wont lessen the fact that it's just another cool thing about life, it's not this "super ultra mega best thing that will completely change your life for the better permanently and you are suddenly a god". Also first times usually suck, it did for me too. When both are virgins its awkward, later it gets better.  2. Hitting the gym or doing a confidence building sport like boxing REALLY DOES HELP. Cant overstate this. Yes it is seen as a joke advice, "hit the gym bro", but have you actually tried it? It massively builds up your confidence, it really helped me. It makes you physically stronger and way more energetic.   3. Stop being on the computer and get outside, its no wonder woman don't like you if you are some isolationist basement dweller.   4. If you take serious steps to self improvement and actively date and be confident in yourself despite your past you will have a girlfriend within months. It is not that hard.
"I'm still attracted to women" WOOOOO!!!!!! *calms thirst*
Amazing
DES (diethylstilbestrol) and other synthetic hormones are given to pregnant women for the purpose of preventing miscarriages, but they cause the babies to become transgender. The baby begins developing as one gender, and then a synthetic hormone is given to the mother partway through the pregnancy after the baby has formed the brain and genitals as either a male or female. Different synthetic hormones will have either a feminizing or masculizing effect on the baby.  DES is not being used anymore, but many other drugs have the same effect. Some of the baby's development occurs as either male or female, and then the opposite gender is overlaid on top of that in such a way that the baby ends up with characteristics of both genders, sometimes visible deformities in the external genitalia, and also changes in the brain that affect everything about how they feel and perceive themselves.
These incels....honestly.... I use to be resentful of all the women and men who rejected me.   Dating is hard, whatever gender or sexuality you happen to be.
Hi Natalie, I've put off writing this for a while, because I totally understand that my comment won't mean anything to you. And yet... I can't let it go. I think you're beautiful. I don't think you need surgery to change the shape or size of your head. It may be possible that I am biased, because I'm a woman that's 6'1" tall with a head so big that I can't wear women's hats :) Of course, like any plastic surgery, if it makes you feel better about yourself, go for it. But just know that everyone in my family agrees that you are beautiful now.
@20:56 That is something a lot of these incels are missing. The coping mechanisms that men learn when being rejected, this is something fathers NEED to teach their sons. This is part of the reason, I believe, people like Jordan Peterson have garnered attention from groups like these. They are literally being told things that is so fucking basic, I'm surprised these guys remember to breathe. I would be considered a "chad" albeit I don't think I'm very attractive, 6 on a rainy day. However, I try to be charming, sweet, funny and even know 1 good magic trick to have enough confidence to approach just about any woman. It was something I tried to instill in my son, from a young age I exposed him to saying hello to girls his age, and up. I wanted him to not view women as these beings you're only allowed to interact with when you want your dick wet. I wanted him to have friends who were girls that could give him a perspective on life that wasn't so guy focused, a balance. Granted I did grow up in a house of 5 sisters and mom so I'm more open to this then most men. The ultimate irony as you pointed out, is that ultimately a lot of these men or allowing other men to determine how likely they are to get laid. They are literally, barking up the wrong tree.
Chadsplaining? Don't tell me this is real, tell me you've made this up!   Also, I'm not entirely sure where the boundaries of the incel population is. Are incels only those sad crazies on internet forums or are all involuntary celibates incels? Because if it is the latter, then those internet posters may not be representative of the average incel. Also, an incel can't get laid but over what time frames? Because nearly every dude on Earth will have experienced periods of involuntary celibacy. I have, several times. I've also experienced periods where I just didn't want to be with anyone and couldn't be bothered trying to get a one night stand (that invariably implies a lot of rejection before you score and most of the time, it's just not worth the effort).  The other thing is that these guys are probably lacking in life experience. Most of us are desperately average looking guys, we're really missing that Chad factor! But what ends up happening is, even if you don't try too hard and just go with the flow, you inevitably end up finding a girl and sometimes, a girl that you feel is way out of your league. This is a weird feeling at first, you're like: "What? Her with me? This must be some kind of mistake". Yes, we're insecure like that. But what you realise is that this stuff keeps happening over and over again. You can't explain why, it always feels like it's against all odds but it does happen, almost naturally (and generally when you least expect it). I'm single right now but there is a zero percent chance that I won't find a nice girl ever again (and that's a 43 years old guy taking).  All this to say that they probably need to experience a bit of life and realise that sometimes it happens and sometimes it doesn't. I must admit those incels you describe are the only members of the manosphere that I have never met, I've never been to those forums or met any of them on YouTube. But I have spoken to everyone else:  - Plenty of MGTOWs: they're an bunch of angry fuckers (well so to speak), it's impossible to have a rational conversation with them. They kind of remind me of radical feminists, they have constructed a world where all women are evil and mean spirited. Of course the problem with that view is that it doesn't even resemble the real world.  - MRAs tend to be these despondent dudes who have been crushed by women or divorce courts and lament themselves 24/7. They make me sad because they look and sound sad but harbour just enough hope that something will one day improve (but the odds are not in their favour given the way they come across).  - When it comes to anti feminists, one would imagine that I would find some common ground since I'm an anti-feminist myself (I have to really, I'm pro-women!). But most of the time it's an alt-right shit show. I get on better with anti-feminists who follow Jordan Peterson for instance or those on the moderate left.  - Most pick up artists that I have met were relatively fun and, along with anti-feminists, that's the most disparate group in the manosphere. It's a quite diverse bunch of people so there really isn't a typical one. And pick up artists are the only ones that I have actually met in real life. But man, they make a science out of it, some actually read books about it. Fuck me!  But I don't know incels at all. Where can I find good information about them and how do you think these guys can help themselves?  Also, I'm from France and I don't know the local equivalents of the manosphere. They probably exist somewhere but I tend to hang around English speakers online. Surely, this can't just be an Anglo-American thing right?
I constantly ask myself when I entered the twilight zone.
The fuck? Didn't know "incels" existed lol.
just found your channel AND I FUCKING LOVE IT
20:55 what a turn of phrase, I spit out my drink. Thank you
You are fabulous. I didn't even realize you were trans. I love this video
F E M O I D S
really gooooooood video <3 I really think a know more than yesterday. <3
24:56 - I am a woman. Have always been blessed with a great body, but I totally look like a man in a dress when I wear a dress. My cousin didn't believe me until we stopped in nearly every store in Manhattan to find a dress that didn't make me look like a man in a dress.
Okay so I'm new to this, but how does contrapoints feel about jordan peterson?
This is brilliant and I love everything about it
To be honest, some trans women like Ann Coulter, do look  like a man in a dress.
Personally, I think that a big reason why incels became this way has to do with EXTREME narcissism.  It's "me me me ME ME!!!  All the women in the world have to pander to me and my needs!!!" times a thousand.  I get that a lot of these guys probably struggle with depression and anxiety, but I still  don't feel any sympathy towards them because of their shitty narcissistic worldview of "you're somehow chosen and everyone's your enemy"
i'm laughing at how much of a good point she makes about tinder, i mean, yeah you CAN be a perverted freak but like dude wait until the third fuck at least to bring that ish up damn
i can't read too much incel stuff or hear about them for too long or i literally lose my mind and begin to feel threatened??? at how they hate/want women? oh sorry FEEEEEEEMMMMMMMMOOOOOOIIIIIIDDDDDSSSSSS  yeah, so i just have to honestly look away for my sanity's sake props to whomever can stomach researching them for longer than 20 minutes you have an iron will
SUPER interesting video, i love the way you break down your points and explain everything so calmly and fully (this is unrelated to the video   but you are beautiful!!)
Hey! I love your videos and the amount of time and research you put into them! Your aesthetic is also gorgeous. I was wondering, if you are looking for ideas for videos, if you could do one on why videos prominently featuring child abuse as punishment are so popular on Facebook and YouTube. I had a really similar experience to the kids from DaddyOFive and although I know he isn’t really relevant anymore, he and others like him, were always wildly popular. I started to research why but I had to stop because it’s extremely difficult to watch sub traumatic footage for me. Anyway thanks for reading this if you did and I love your work ❤️
PSA to any incels in this comment section: I am a solid 4/10 on a good day. I have 'made it' with women. Take two shots of vodka, slap yourself on the face and go talk to them. Most of them dont bite.
Those first first 10 seconds where i get so anti-aroused i reversed through puberty... Incels fascinate and disgust me.
The skull had long been a symbol of the human soul/consciousness, which makes sense considering that our brains house our individual minds. I suppose an obsession with the human skull in the context of bigotry would imply a metaphysical hierarchy of 'souls' based on not only the dimensions of the head, but also on other body parts as well (if you catch my drift) 🤷‍♂️
Wow. What a video. I mean this absolutely positively.
If I had the right skull shape I could be an apache attack helicopter
emm..when r you goin to sing again?? plz
I'm in love with u
I cant wait a whole month for your sexy self
plz look at this in your next video https://www.youtube.com/channel/UClisvQgV5IYj9ND5TJU8w0A
Do I hear the sultry vocal tones of philosophy tube?
Roosh and the hostess should hook up.
Upload another vid lol.
That last sentence was an experience. This whole video was a delight. Thank you.
I'm a nerdy guy who isn't super smooth with the ladies. I'm 32 and have only been laid like 5 times. But it's kool... I'm not mad about it... Easy come easy go lol. Even if I was still a virgin it wouldn't bug me. Lots of people go through life not doing lots of things. I don't think I will ever try out for being a ballet dancer or a fire man. I don't want to be a cop and I don't plan on trying prison... Just some examples lol.  So... Do some of these people actually refer to women as femoids? Lol wtf??? That's a first for me...  Is this skull shit for real? I thought Mr. Burns from the simpsons and idiots from back in the day were the only ones all about that stupid shit. I seen some dudes who don't have the whole chad shaped easter island head look and they get laid just fine...  Very kool video. Learned a lot. I just wish folks would stop taking sex so seriously... Some folks have lives where they don't get laid a lot like me. Big whoop. My life is still great. I'm good at guitar, my job, pet keeping, and some video games. I love music, movies, shows, and healthy living etc etc... I have a lot of fun in life regardless of not being a pimp with the ladies lol. More to life than just getting laid. So relax my sexually frustrated friends. Not everyone gets to be king of pussy mountain lol. It's not a big deal lol. And not to sound weird but I gotta be honest. In some ways porn is better than a sex partner so you will always have porn. No one knows how to jerk your thing better than you for one. A lot of people will admit that their best orgasms were caused by themsel... Well anyways lol.  Just found this channel from Shaun and that hbomberguy dude. Those salt right racist and sexist types must really hate you guys lol. I find that hilarious. Subbed!
I got a request for a video - can you make one about affirmative action? You seem to elaborate about those topics much better than I am, and I have problem with convincing people that putting BAME offer for Ciri in Witcher series is ok, while offer with "white actors only" would be racist. This is so obvious to me like a difference between assault and self-defense, that I cannot find good words to explain it.
Chad has never heard a song in his entire life? What a miserable life, why would anyone want to be like him?
hey bb r u singl?  Im not I just wanna know so I can laugh at you.      No plz im kidding im really gay for you contra plz
I’m not a Bread Scientist, I’m a Yeast cultivist.
I'm uglier than most incel selfies I saw. and shit.. even I have a fuck friend !
this video has been in my recommendations for months, so I sat down and watched it today. I... think I love you?
Would it be inappropriate to call Tinder a "hurricane of unwanted dicks"
By the way, you look beautiful! You don't need facial surgery!
So many valid points you make though lol, I love it
I WANT TO BE A BREAD SCIENTIST NOW
One word: Masturbation
"The inherent eroticism of the sea" earned you a subscriber. Yes, I know that's a strange reason to subscribe. Don't @ me.
Are you stupid? Incels don’t believe in the red pill u dumb fuck, they believe in the black pill. This is purposeful ignorance just to paint conservatives in a bad light. Only the lowest of the low manipulate facts like this.
Can I just say that I'm new here, and when I first started the video I had no idea you were trans. You look like a woman, really.
WHAT IS IT WITH YOU PEOPLE AND SKULLS!?
There’s somebody for everyone. You just gotta be confident.
The only thing you really need to know about "love": https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0rWunrNejmA
https://youtu.be/JwgvbLF28fE
You hit so many nails on the head. That was amazing. I appreciated a lot of what you said regarding your own behavior online as well. I can admit to being guilty to a couple of those attitudes and practices myself, particularly when my mental health was poor. I'm recommending this video to anyone I see discussing incels in the hopes it helps them examine their own behavior. It was very eye-opening, you did a great job!
I have fallen in love :D your video is so relaxing
Can I marry this video?
New follower here, Thanks for being yourself, I hope you get to reach as many people as possible with your fresh, sincere and fun way to explain all these issues. I encourage you to keep up with your awesome work! And again, thank you.
we should start bullying nerds again !1!!
It’s bloody hard work, thinking. But please don’t give it up. It’s so very much appreciated.
I don't actually think that the "red pill", the way in which you describe it (with Incel/Normie/Chat categories and whatnot), is applicable to the MRM (MRAs).  Perhaps your misunderstanding has something to do with The Red Pill documentary about the MRM, in which the term has a different usage-- basically that men also have legitimate social and legal issues that are generally not being addressed or covered in the mainstream.  All do have the recognition of Hypergamy in common-- but so what?  It's a real thing.  Of course, more extreme elements apply it in ways it should not be, and that's a problem.
I. Friggin. Love. You. So. Much. 😭💖💖💖💖💖
You don't need surgery, you look perfect now
I just had an aneurysm watching that intro....
I’m a female incel. Why aren’t female incels recognized? ..Maybe I’m the only one
I really appreciate this video. You do a great job of explaining the ideology of incels without outright bashing them and instead offer really good advice. Staying away from toxic forums is key to living a healthier life. I identified with a lot of incel ideals when I was a teenager before incel was a thing on the internet and those ideals would have undoubtedly escalated if I browsed those forums at the time. I still have issues socializing with women due to anxiety and autism that I've struggled with for the majority of my life, but I've been seeing a psychiatrist who's really helped me in confronting a lot of my mental roadblocks and I've also met people who've become close friends that have been very supportive and caring which helped to boost my confidence. I'm positive that if these people could receive the help and therapy they desperately need that they could live a much healthier and happier life. It's awful that some of them resort to violence as a last ditch effort for revenge against those they feel they've been wronged by. You're videos have inspired me to evaluate things from a different perspectives so thank you for being great :)
From what I see of these Incels. I think these guys need to leave these forums where they will fall into a self fulfilling prophecy, and go out and work on self improvement, By that I mean work on things like there confidence and communication skills.
one of thous moments where I say to myself, what the fuck am I watching.
I love the cadence of the writing. Enjoyable listening and entertaining visuals, kudos
"Bread scientist" 😂😂😂😂😂
New subscriber! Such a great video, well done.
At least 100 of those 600k views are mine, lol. I love this video.
31:18 ~tingles~
Subbed! Holy shit. Top Marks. You should play EvE Online.
80's: "War on drugs" 2000's: "War on terror" 2020's: "War on Incel"
a correction on your video: mgtow does not = voluntary celibacy.
That guy should have started to try to get girls by firstly not bringing everyones attention to his wrists. Cherrio everyone, I;m off to the Maldives with my new Chad!!! Catacha
20:06 sounds like the cock carousel no?
Welcome to the bone zone
Serious question. Is the term "currycels" for Japanese, Thai or Indian? I think of all 3 when I think of curry.
Are you an unattractive guy who thinks that they’ll never find love because of his looks? If so, I have a rager  for you that will tickle your fancy :) so.  Not to toot my own horn but I have been called “attractive” and “hot“  by many of my peers  and I honestly would rate myself at 7.5 out of 10 on a general scale. I am 20 years old and work two jobs, so I have a pretty substantial income and I take pretty good care of myself. But guess what. Whale My friend and I have been very close friends for over six years now and recently I realized that I was in love with them. I always had a crush on them but I didn’t want to risk ruining our friendship and finally I decided to take the leap of faith.  Lemme describe them: 5‘9”,  has mild autism, has acne and rosacea,  is very underweight  (used to struggle with anorexia :(   ),  has a crooked nose that I adore,  small soft hands,  and rarely goes outside so they’re pale .  I find him absolutely adorable in looks and mind.  Yeah. He is a man, and I am a “femoid “ lol. Him and I have been dating for almost a year now and I haven’t even considered being with another because everything about him makes me so happy.  He is so sweet to me and all around just a generally good person who I always have a fantastic time with.  No Chad or Stacy could ever replace him.  So to all of you naysayers out there,  I am living proof that healthy relationships do exist even for “nerdy” guys/girls,  and that if you aren’t finding love you probably just have a shitty personality . Take care  PS, I wrote this on another Post as well bc honestly I just hate the incel community I wanna spread the truth m8
I hated incels until watching this video. Now it just makes me sad....
That fucking monologue at the start made my skin crawl.
Funny how I’m a Becky on a regular day and a Stacy or whatever when I’m at the strip club rubbing gum and my ass sweat on pigs like this.
I have a nature fetish now
Good, this channel is fucking dead
This was.... one of her  better videos.   Love the point about self-deprecating majority versus the virulent MGTOW-like woman haters.   Not too much to complain about.
If it makes you guys feel any better, the hatred of women by incels usually comes from the hatred of ones self
Your face looks fine, don't worry about that
never had an ASMR thing do anything to me, but damn that part almost got me
Lighting is on point
Thanks for clearing up my confusion over the origins of "incel." Back in the day I hung out for a while on the original online support group you mention and was shocked when "incel" resurfaced recently as an alt-right thing.
Maybe you should research a little better. I agree, incels have a problem. Instead of just leaving it and doing something productive, they stick to their toxic forums
hermoso
"[...] faster than Marvel can make Avengers movies [...]" - we then see 3 images of incels and 4 images of movie titles.   I get the general idea, though.
This was informative and could potentially help people.
News flash: You are not a femoid.
I really like what you said about stratocasters towards the end, because I'm a teenage boy, and my parents are divorced which means I leave in two different houses and have two different bedrooms, and both of them have a stratocaster in them. It really does help with sexual frustration because playing music gives you something to show for all the time spent alone. I've been lonely for most of my life but I went through a period of absolutely devastating loneliness that almost lead to suicide last year. The only advice I ever got was "just go outside and make some friends" or "just get out more." To which would cause me to think "if it was as simple as just leaving the house I wouldn't be struggling. I need something more specific, like where do I actually go once I've left the house?" The internet didn't help much either, the best advice I found there was "go join clubs or groups that do things you're interested in." To which I would think "what groups? Where?" And so I would just go back to my room and play guitar or bass or drums or sing, and try to get as good as I possibly could so that I at least didn't feel like I was wasting my life. From an outside perspective it probably seems like I spend too much time alone in my room, but I at lest have something to show for it which are my six EPs that I recorded everything on (guitar bass drums and vocals) meanwhile most of the people I know who have lots of friends and get laid all the time have never written a song in their lives, let alone recorded one. The things they invest their time in are temporary whereas the things I create will last forever. I'm not trying to say I'm somehow better than those people, I'm just trying to say that being alone isn't all bad. Those people have something I don't have and I have something they don't have. While people like me spend much of their youth feeling miserable, the people who become superstars are the people who have way too much alone time, because they'll do anything to feel like their not wasting their life, and they end up creating something admirable.
LMFAO.............. Lol as a man who's a little more gifted than others and this department I will tell you it is a curse I often have to shut my phone off and pretend like I'm not home to avoid women who stalk me in addition to this intimacy it's not really fun when you're rather large shall we say as you are always holding back as Not to cause actual harm which unfortunately does happen in my entire life I went through the first good part of adolescence and adulthood enable to speak correctly at least enough to get laid or even get a phone number you could say I couldn't pull an anorexic chick and a tug of war however after I turned 28-29 everything kind of changed it's been 3 years and I'm not any happier life isn't any better I'm just getting laid that's all in fact it's created more headaches now then I had before
bold of the guy at 32:10 to assume girls, or anyone really, are still talking about paris hilton in 2018
If any one is going to be a trans woman. DON'T CUT IT OFF!
"whatever hurts, is true" wow that was powerful
One of the easiest 1 vid subs I've had in a while. Not sure what it is, but I love seeing this new trend in not attacking the subject, but rather exploring it and trying to reach some understanding. It's all too easy to make fun of something that reminds us of parts of ourselves we don't like and let's be real, every person has gone through some form of uncertainty and insecurity before.  There's such a wide range of emotions about this subject for me,  as someone that wasn't great with girls when I was young, and turned that all around as I grew more mature, and kind of ended up too far the other way in the end.  It is so very interesting to see so much more than just the title "incel" without having to bath in the black sea of the forums. Safe to say that they would regard me as something along the lines of the pick up artist. Except it's not that. It's just don't be creepy to be around, but do be fun to be around. It's that simple.    The one thing I am convinced of however is that somewhere along the way, as I was growing up, I got this strange sense of how things were supposed to be. I presume a lot of it was movies and TV that tried so hard to teach me that being a good person was reward enough, and somehow turned that message got into being a good person is a job and you get paid in pussy. Clearly, that's insane, and flys in the face of just being a good person. If you are doing something for a reward then that's a job, and that's not you just being a good person. And like any job yeah, I get why people would be pissed if they don't get paid, but circle back around to, being a good person is not a job.   Lastly, just to touch on a more personal point, but please don't you dare touch that beautiful face. As one who has at times been very invested as to how feminine a face looks, your face so very easily sails past that test.
What's on her lip? There's something on her lip and I can't stop staring at it.
It's a principle of psychology that people generally want to receive feedback about themselves that is accurate with their own self-image, even if that image is negative. So receiving negative feedback on their appearance is actually what these incels want, because it reinforces their own thoughts about themselves, saying "see, you're right about yourself".
This is the first video I've seen from this channel and I got two positive things to say about it: First is this video is really fucking good and eye opening and I'm definitely going to go watch a bunch more. Second, I had no idea you were trans. You're absolutely beautiful and your voice is very calming and your makeup is on point.
>I used to live as a man  BItch, I know thats why I started watching this channel.
As someone from Baltimore, that "hon" thing short circuits my brain. Hon is what older white ladies lovingly call everyone they meet.
ABIGAIL LEAVE MY FUCKHOLE OUT OF THIS
hey, so i finally have started watching your content and holy cow. A+. your video essays are A) seriously well researched enough that i'd use them as citations for an academic essay, and B) funny and enjoyable enough that i watch them for funsies. good work!!
This is the first video I’ve watched. And I love it already
Incels follow the Black Pill philosophy. Not the Red Pill. Also MGTOW men aren't a form if incels. Because many still have sex. They just don't want to date.
Hey! Pssst! Like at least 50k of these views are from /r9k/
Fuck you femoids
This is the first video of yours I've watched, and I didn't notice you were trans until you said you were trans
So all men should be chizled greek statues of an image of a masculinity that's more fictional than the abrahamic god in order to be desirable.  a) then how does anyone get to fuck b) Someone has to remind this "fact" to my collegue that only gets aroused by fembois.
This is so depressing. How do you keep sane after researching all this stuff?
Idk why I thought this would be an ASMR video...
Does... anyone else want to point out to Incels that "-gamy" means, specifically, wives? And thus the new greek term for *women* marrying (men) above their status would be hyperandry?
my mom is a bread scientist
Why not having sex is not happy? I don't get it.
I'm a cis woman and I probably wouldn't be able to satisfy the arbitrary standards of "good enuf" arbitrary and subjective femininity of tttt or whatever the fuck that forum is called. Honestly, most cis women wouldn't let alone a vulnerable trans-woman/girl. The shitpools the internet invents, oy. I'm, glad you deprogrammed yourself contra, I used to lurk in the worst pre-2015 toxic, hardcore SJ communities on tumblr and deprogrammed myself after the **Shocking:/sarcasm** realisation that participating in the "MORE RADICAL THAN THOU" tumblr progressivism olympics. Deprogramming is hard and takes a lot of energy to do. What I'm wiggling my fingers trying to say is: good on ya Contra.
Deftly avoiding the red herring of the proposed incel worldview was a nice touch.  I think it's mostly a way to justify or explain their intense self loathing as you said with the razor comment. Though i wonder how much of the incel community is affected by body dysmorphic disorder. They seem to show  symptoms of it (the distrust of those who claim they appear fine and what not. ). Our society seems predisposed to associating appearances with complete value to be honest. People who look wrong are wrong or people who look "gross" can be of no true value, or that's the sentiment i observe at times. I wonder if this is an inevitable part of humanity or an error of our times that will be remedied eventually. I also wonder personally whether or not some sort of idealism backed reclusion from this kind of materialist appearance-is-worth sentiment is a good choice. I think it could have benefits for mental health but it also ultimately seems like a kind of escapism. It's an interesting issue nonetheless that i think manifests in a lot of places at the moment. I'll be curious to see which way society decides is best moving forward. Great video
An imminently bangable twink
How tf would non-chads pass on their virgin skull genes? We should be majority chads pretty quick.
mi'lady
I don't know how some people ask you about your dong, if it would be me i'll don't know how to begin, you are a so inspiring person. Blessings from Chile.
Fun fact : the Chad cartoons head is the outline of the Republic of Chad
Gorgeous, inside and out.
I love this video I expected it to be preachy but it was just.... Nice. You're real cool and pretty and have a nice way of talking about these topics
you have a very sexy Scorpionic aesthetic, I dig it.
Fuck, she is a goddess.
Isn't labeling Incels "Nerds" a little insulting to Nerds everywhere?  Why not refer to them as Assholes or Losers.
Yay for "bread scientist"
man, i'd almost feel bad for these people if they weren't turning into actual murderers
You are freaking awesome. Sincerely, your newest subscriber.
"Theory" is kind of a generous term for the incel worldview. At best it's a speculation.
kate winslet is that you? you're stunning
This is the first video I've ever seen of yours, I had no idea you were trans... it didn't surprise me, but if you hadn't said you were I wouldn't have knowm
The Alpha Fux Beta Bux concept has to be the trippiest bullshit thought up by men about women since penis envy.
The really sad part is that if these people ever do have sex , it will never live up to the gigantic mental hype that they created for it, and they will sadly realize that having sex for the first time doesnt radically transform your life. Its not like a video game, you dont unlock special items or abilities.    Its just an experience, hopefully it felt good and wasnt awkward, and then your life moves on.   They are basing their concept of fullfillment and self actualizatipn upon something that will never deliver those things.
Can we just talk about how perfect the lighting is in ContraPoints videos?
Okay you're wonderful
femoids???????? this whole video is full of stuff i didnt know "existed"
Well, that was quite an experience I’ve never seen on YouTube before
Spot on. The most terrifying thing for me is that I was there too,k ages ago - Luckily, never nearly as bad; PS I feel very very gay after watching this
I really like that content, and I was always a bit of an anti SJW, because they behaved like a bunch of loonies or even Nazi (I really despise fascism), but that person is actually reasonable and funny.
Brilliant. First video I've watched from you and now I wanna binge!
Where’s my “imagine how a woman feels” shirt
You're honestly such a beautiful and inspiring person inside and outside
This comment section is scary AF. Come for me bro... cum for me.
That ocean is such a Stacy, tho. :P
"white supremacist" I really dont get it. It's like no matter how low in the social status domain a poor MF is, as long as he is white and mean he is a white supremacist
Thanks a lot for making this video! I won't lie I am from a fairly backward culture and you are the first person who is transgender that I actually got to hear talking about a subject that is important to me. Not only you have changed my perspective on transgenders, you also opened my eyes to the whole incel ideology It is very true that guys due to self-loathing develop these ideologies that are utter bullshit. Getting laid is not more important than developing long lasting & fulfilling skills! its such a minute thing in this day and age to go insane about. Plus treating women like sex objects 100% of the time does not help either. What incels are failing to understand is that if they work on themselves for fun and not to impress women & just lower down their standards just a little bit and look at life from not a get-me-sex-rn to I wanna build something prospective they will end up getting laid more and be less miserable overall while keeping a healthy mental state. People are taking everything too serious these days and not having fun & by taking the wrong things seriously they are missing out on the things that they should be serious about
Fantastic video and I was amazed how much overlap there is between the two communities you discussed... but, you know when you read or hear something, and think, "I suspect this person has a fetish", well...  I'M PRETTY SURE YOU WANNA FUCK THE OCEAN !  DON'T YOU !?!?! YOU SEA-SPRAY SLUT !  GIVING IT UP FOR EVERY WAVE THAT CRASHES ON YOUR BEACHES ! FEELING THAT SALTY SPLASH ACROSS YOUR FACE !  I am shocked! Shocked and appealed, such kink and fetishism in my online sociology essays!  My digital academia corrupted by your insatiable desires!
Ugh i love you thank you for this video
When you're in that noble lady outfit you remind me of Winona Ryder, especially when she was younger.
Excellent as usual, thanks for this video. I have been thinking a lot lately that if I had a different set of friends, or if I was a slightly different age, I might have been one of these people. It scares me and makes me sad for everyone in the universe.
Okay *how* is Jordan Peterson sexist
I have a problem with the part from 8:00 to 8:26 bc you’re making incels look racist- that’s just not true. Yes incels are fucked up people, but they’re pretty egalitarian when it comes to race
Though not the same experience by any means, as a trans male I definitely relate to seeking out spaces that misgender you and tell you you're doomed to live as your cagab. Many of the irl lgbt spaces I frequented were obsessed with a sort of validation culture, and I found it unbearably fake, so I turned to a really toxic series of friend groups of mostly other trans men that I'm still struggling to escape that are... Completely stuck in this depressing worldview that they and other trans men are going to be forced to be women forever and they can't change it, and that anyone who attempts to have a different experience is faking being trans entirely. It's a hard thing to go through.
I just found your videos and they're amazing! Thank you 😊
Masochistic epistemology reminds of something from a Manson song. "When I hate it, I know I can feel  But when you love, you know it's not real."
Hey, you're doing a great job. I appreciate your content :)
First video I’ve seen with her (is that the right pronoun?) and I love her already :) 19:10 Ooh, that triggered my womb envy. As a bi male, I definitely relate to seeing both major sides of online dating and the different treatment depending on what gender one is trying to pair with (that’s how I’d define it) and preferring spam to silence (within reason).
If only they’d see beyond the illusion of social conditioning and give themselves a chance... Sincerely, a former hopecel (without the misogyny and otherwise questionable ideology)
this was on my recommended. im in love. subbed
#NOTALLDICK
Please make an incel phrenology asmr video. That was some good good whispering
i didnt realise that you are trans until you said it
"At least these pricks care enough about my pussy to be an asshole about my dick." Quote of the century. I literally spit out water when I heard that.
I first saw this video yesterday and now I'm back because the presentation was so powerful it literally affected my dream last night.
Dear Natalie. I adore you.
*f u c k a b l e  s k u l l s*
Feeeeeeemoooooiiiiid
lost it at bread scientist
Hey. Just wanted to say, you're beautiful, and this has been a very informative video.
what you used to be a man? Who would have guessed?😱 🙃
was she kidding when she said iv never said it but,  i was a man?.. no shit..i could tell from the very start of the vid.
I know a 2/10 guy who has a 6/10 WIFE and a baby Theyre mormon, which plays a role no doubt. But still
Everything in this video is hyperbolic bullshit.  Even my sister who is a social scientist said that it is utter bullshit based on a series of post hoc fallacies, begging the question, and genetic fallacies based on a strawman.
That intro just got demonetized.
If all seems lost, in toxicity and in society, search and seek the lost/hidden knowledge. All "holy" scriptures are all the same and are not tyrannical, unlike society in it's present form(s), I also recommend the study of alchemy, in all it's forms, botany/botanical alchemy. (Too soon?) It can be good or bad, depending on your emotions and negativity and/or positivity, so the results will be accordingly. You then will probably find eating more of a higher plant intake, (if socital medication doesn't interfere, in the form of "allergies") can help you emotionally and in fixing stability in your body, as a whole, more, im additon of ridding other things deemed, to give society more money, while killing us and fuelling our addicting toxic natures. If reincarnated, we were probably born as both male and female, if in other lives. Yin and Yang are within us all, good and bad, male and female energy, so why should we give a rat's arse/ass?? Welp, besides society, rn... So as u are both God and Satan, within, unlock those 7 coloured chambers (chakra, "churches") and let your rainbow shine, within, with no fear and cast off your ego/false sense of self, in unconditional love~ (By then u may barely even ever want sex, again, and would be fullfiled, in peace and contentment~) God Are You 🌈❤💖💛💚💙💜💗☮✝🕉☸☯
I have never had a crush this hard before.... <3 <3 <3  Subscribed!
How have I never stumbled across your channel before? This is the first of your videos I've seen and I'm in love. SUBSCRIBED! BELL ON!
OH MY god her voice is so beautiful and nice to listen to, I love it so much:)
If you ever went to /fit/ on 4chan it's like the opposite of incel boards the idea of men praising each other and motivating with tips and stories as well as improving themselves both physically and personality wise
I wanna start a new band called Chads of Color
You made me snort unattractively. I like you.
FEEEEEEMOIDS
I appreciate that you made a video that is very fair but also harsh towards this community.  As a 20-year-old guy who has pretty much no sexual experience (not without a lack of trying), I have to admit that a lot of the blackpill/hopelessness stuff becomes really hard to resist after awhile.  I have never really gone down the rabbit hole of being super misogynistic (at least I don’t think) and I have never called myself an “incel”, but I do understand a lot of the bitter behavior that these people exhibit.  I think we are definitely in a crisis with masculinity and I think we have a lot of different interpretations of how we can try and preserve masculinity without turning it into a toxic, sexist identity like it’s been interpreted in the past.  I know you’re not a big fan of Jordan Peterson but I do think that he is helping a lot of people get out of this mentality, he certainly helped me with some of that.
Every time I see anything about incels, I can't help but remember how I narrowly escaped becoming one myself. I have tasted the depression and anxiety that comes with it. Hell, it made me miss being molested when I was 12 and I had become more afraid of living than dying. That level of depression isn't something I'd wish on *anyone* and it's why it's impossible for me to be completely unsympathetic to their suffering.  A man being friends with women is extremely underrated. They were both taken so dating either of them was out of the question from the start. But I had become close with them -- close enough for me to have talked about my troubles with them. Needless to say, their words weren't lost on me. They may very well have saved my life.
You legit do not look like a man. Get FFS if you want but like.. I don't think you need it at all
If only I had the proper skull shape, but alas, I’ll never be a bread scientist :((((
This was a really good analysis. Like, "yikes, there's a lot to unpack here," good analysis. I think there are a decent amount of people who are borderline incel or toxic MGTOW, toxic feminist, whatever etc, and that's concerning. What did our culture to do us? Why are so many people left behind? Falling through the cracks? How do we make it stop?
Hey. No rush on that next video. Take your time to give it the effort it deserves. We will all benefit.
Ok I just wanna say that your set and costumes are amazing.
Where have you been all my life?! :D
I am sooooo in love! Write me down on your adoring-fans list ❣❣❣❣
That was beautiful ... you are a genius ... I had goosebump in the end !
"At least that prick cares enough about my pussy to be an asshole about my dick" might be the greatest line I've ever heard <3
omfg you totally lost me when i heard your a tranny.  no wounder you where a bit funny, men are funny and woman are not.
I’m a biological female and only 5 ft tall so my head is massive compared to my body. Like seriously huge I’m a freaking bobblehead doll
*FEEEEEEEMMMOOOOIIIDDDSSSS*
Laughed so hard at the bread scientist line. Bravo!
tbf some women get media silence too :( 'volcel if you wouldn't, bitches' is my favourite comeback to incels now, tho
the inherent eroticism of the sea is a BIG MOOD
id fuck the shit out of you
Larry Wheels is the pinnacle of manliness.         That is all.
I found this video as a suggested video when I looked into this whole incel thing and had no idea you were trans until you mentioned it. I know what some random on the internet says probably doesn't mean that much, but yeah.
First time on the channel !  Keep going girl !  Bisous from France
Some thoughts ...  Elliot Rodgers was actually quite good looking. His celibacy was therefore down to having an unpleasant personality - at least towards women. This is reflected in incels' general contempt for women and the use of words such as 'femoids'. Why then do incels claim to be unattractive physically? Because they want to put their celibacy down to something they can't affect and not down to something that they can change - their behaviour and  attitudes. They are running away from being responsible for their own situation. I have known women who have done the same thing - finding it more comfortable to claim that the breakdown of our relationship is due to me losing sexual interest (which she could do nothing about) rather than listening to my complaints about her behaviour (which she could change).  Incels are not complaining that no woman is interested in them. They are complaining that no Stacy is interested in them. They dismiss the majority of women as Beckys (interestingly also a generic term that some black women use for white women). Incels are not opposed to a world in which 20% of men get all the sex. Their complaint is that they are not part of that 20%. Where does this sense of entitlement come from? My guess is the usual reasons why people start to favour an authoritarian society, be it socialist or fascis, and a rejection of a liberal economy and society that has failed to assign you the position at the top of the hierarchy that you feel is your due. This would include men who have gone to elite schools but who struggle to enter elite professions. Men who have achieved academic qualifications that are not valued outside of academia. Men who consider themselves to be a member of a superior race but who find women preferring men of a different race. men who find themselves supplanted at work by intelligent women. There are probably also some other explanations for why men turn into incels: simple misogyny and men whose interests are not shared or are derided by women (think 'nerds'). in general, however, that degree of hatred for women can only come from a sense that his own position in society is sliding inexorably downward.
Fascinating ... and terrifying Pretty good for a 1st video I'm subscribing
Cool, more fodder for my misanthropy. Thanks for the recommendation youtube.
Oh look it's my new favorite channel. *hits the bell*
"Oh my god, I'm gonna cut my dick off, okay?"  Hahaha Jesus christ. Look, a year ago I was pretty prejudice against trans people (quietly, I think people should be able to live how it makes them happy) and I gotta say....I'm Sorry. You're hilarious, and I stopped seeing you as "trans" and just started seeing you as a person. You've opened my mind.
So...​  - incels complain their faces are not masculine enough. - men with masculine faces have it harder to become women  Solution : incels should change their gender.  If you cannot slay as a man , maybe you can as a lesbian?  Think about it.  This isn't a bad idea.
Wow, I might unintentionally have the black pill incel mindset. Never to the point of killing or blaming women for shit, but somewhere around there in the depression area.
….It's like a psychoanalysis of the Nice Guy™   and myself cause I just felt that euphoric feeling when you mention other people "confirming" issues that i see in myself. It's so fucking weird that people do that but it's kinda like when someone compliments me on my cosplays or an outfit but better. The validation of something that you did nothing to get is just ODD. I see why self deprecation is such a common thing for everyone. damn. This is the type of content I've been needing..Subscribed.
That's a terrible way for them to look at life
Imagine how is to touch the grill
Jesus  Christ, I have no idea why I waited so long to check out your channel! You are fucking hilarious and ininsightful. You live in  Charm City? I hope I run in to you.
BRAVO. My stormy body hairs quiver to the wind of your maelstrom sililoquy, my lady
"because i used to be uh.... <pause> ... "scientist"" ( i doubt that very much)
New viewer and my honest first thought was that you're an exceptionally gorgeous woman. I'm so glad you exist and I decided to watch this video. Something as potently toxic as this needs someone who understands the culture to comment on and push back against it. I really appreciate your honestly and dedication to stay objective and understanding the human side to this phenomena rather than treating these people, as awful as they are, as inhuman others.
Goddamnit, this came out on my birthday. Lol @ the Wild Nights and Emily Dickinson refs tho.
bullshit
Shit girl I really like your nails  great video! Subbed
okay i need to know where you got that snake/tentacle? ring, its gorgeous
I think you are beautiful.
This came out on my birthday and tbh im so happy about this. Favorite video ever.
At least blaire white is more honest than you
I wish everyone understood how important it is to empathise with people, even though they may hate and lash out at you. They will usually do this because they are in pain themselves. There are so many groups like the 'incel' community and so many sad, lonely people out there who will act in the same way.
What would the FTM version of a hon be? Would it be a bud?
"Calm down lesbians stans" IM ATTACKED
I just found your channel and oh my god I love you. You’re so funny and pretty 😤💕💕💖
This was very well done! Really like how your personal experiences made you see the matter differently. I always felt like something unhealthy was keeping that community going, just like selfharm, but for my own sake i tried to avoid it so I wouldn't think about it too much.
Amazing content. Thank you!
The "Red Pill" of the Men's rights movement is not the same as the "red pill" spoken of by Incels. The MRA red pill concerns how society sees men as disposable, as in war and other conventionally made, dangerous labour's. Whereas Incels see the "Red Pill" very much how you explained it. Love you Contra 😊
18:40 is absolute gold and I love it
So... this is the first video of yours I've ever watched, and aside from the humour and style, which I'm loving- I had absolutely no clue you were trans until you straight up stated it three times. Damn girl!
Some of them just need to be killed or locked up in asylums
I  kinda want to say that, even though I really like Peterson and used to like Milo (his hype has kinda died and he was more hype than intellect sometimes...I just found it to be useful hype)….I also really enjoyed this video and your personality.  I haven't watched your content because I thought it might be too politically...idk...far left? Glad I clicked on this :) Decided to subscribe.
yeah the incel logic doesn't meet up with my lived experience and reality. I consider myself an 8. I consider my boyfriend an 8 even though he swears he's relatively unattractive. I suppose at certain angles. everyone ive ever been with has had a feature or two I felt I could do without or improve but I just decide "meh" because I love them and am happy. Anyway, I really think we're in the same league.  I also think he can't be as unattractive as he feels because women have solicited him for casual hooking up before.. here I might align just a tad with incel thinking...I think women will only hook up with a man if they find him physically nice on the eyes.  they're not gonna do a one night stand with joe average. or its unlikely.   But. ok. im dating across. not hypergamous.  And also my female coworker is ...definitely dating DOWN. so, also not hypergamous.  That's just two examples to me of women not following this mating strategy they talk about. though I admit I'm sure some women actually DO that.  as usual though you get tons of error and closemindedness and just...stupidity...when you categorize everyone and everything so narrowly. very sloppy and unscientific.
Huh, guess I'm chad now.
# No tall dick?
The way I always pictured incels as individuals as someone who excels at rationalizing and finding reasons for their present situation and/or behaviour to such an extent that they can convince themselves that up is down. As individuals, it's problematic enough, but as a group, the delusions get reinforced and grow beyond all reason. The extent to which they have to invent a new language understandable only to the in-group pretty much gives away two things: 1- their use of sciency-techno-babble is an attempt to have the credibility of science without actually doing science 2- if ordinary, everyday language were used to say what they mean, it would get destroyed in two seconds, so word salads have to be made up in order to murky the waters and claim to be misunderstood.
You’re so gorgeous and intelligent it’s ridiculous. Such a good video!
shit... hysteric missandric for one side, in the other a nihilistic suicide cult, where the fucking normal people are hide nowdays?
You get more and more beautiful every video and i can’t handle it
shit, they are like digimons...druggcel, mentalcel, highcell...
Ughghgh an intelligent analysis/argument with aesthetically pleasing visuals. I live for your videos.
Yh rise of Incels pitiful as they are is so blatantly 1 result of the many ways feminism has impacted society, Cassie jaye creates an excellent documentary that really shows the fallout of the rise of feminism in the west as did the Australian media in how she was treated, it’s all nihilism in one way or another be happy when we get to a point where equality returns I’d say we had a blissful 10 or so years around the late 90s, but feminism is a back hole of power masquerading as egalitarian, it shows its true face when it is even slightly challenged,, just a dogmatic ideology, I like Cassie Jaye used to support feminism but it was what it became that changed my view, I am egalitarian humanist now so that position no longer aligns with feminism  I still enjoy contra and she should continue with her thought provoking content, despite how much I disagree with her lol
Thank goodness I went through puberty before the internet.  Very sound advice you gave about leaving forums. I frequently recommend to clients having depressive issues to either take a break from social media, even watching the news for periods so they can focus on themselves and I highly recommend they stay away from facebook pages or forum sights that are specifically designed for their particular issues. There is a good chance that a person may encounter risks of vicarious trauma (a transformation in the self that results from empathic engagement with other traumatised people.) This is something that health workers and mental health practitioners need to be self-aware of as a risk to engaging with many clients but as Professionals are human beings too this is a risk that anyone can be at risk of especially people who are already having issues.
I never thought I'd hear the words 'fuckable skulls' in a sentence together. Thank you.
Save your money.  Your face is beautiful, already.  I had no idea you were trans until you said so.
Ahh the sea. The tides. Back and forth like the rhythms of copulation.   Also I don’t know if Baltimore being a “Divine city” was an intentional joke but if so it was a good one
I also think this group of angry, frustrated men should be agitated even further, hopefully past the breaking point. I mean, what's the worst thing that could happen? Some innocent girls will end up with bashed skulls? Acceptable losses apparently.
Bravo!! Bravo!!
@4:40 I am a heterossexual male and I'm more attracted to "Becky" archetypes than I am to "Stacy", am I weird? (And yes, that applies IRL)
Oh, I mean, I paused it so maybe you are about to make this point, but I definitely had the incel experience on dating websites. No firing squad of dicks for me. I even messaged a few people and got nothing in response. I just figured dating websites are not really for me. I didn't decide that I was unlovable and turn into an incel. I mean, Natalie you are an incredibly beautiful woman, dating websites are basically made for you. :D
Thank the gods you are still attracted to women! All my hopes of wooing you were almost dashed in an instant! lol just kidding. But I do love you in a totally non-creepy and platonic way. :D
was recently bashed for posting that i like jordan peterson in a gilles deleuze-forum and they kept telling me to watch your video on him and i did and your stuff is great and i kinda got rewarded for my poor first attempt at trolling. i apologize.
I didn't see a man I saw a gorgeous slender make up on point cool af aunt high priestess.
The stuff you're saying around 28 minutes, about the feeling of having your deepest insecurities validated, is also a feature of the "pro-ana" community. It's scary to be told that the disordered beliefs that have taken over your life are completely wrong and need to be abandoned. It's a relief, even a comfort, to hear whole forums of other people affirming that starving is actually OK, that it's being life-threateningly underweight is admirable, and that it's understandable to aspire to anorexia if you have a different ED (e.g. bulimia). And even if someone states openly that they want to literally starve themselves to death on purpose, others will accept that as a valid goal to have, though they might get people saying "that's really sad :(" or "don't do it, hun <3 stay alive" or whatever. It's the eating disorder equivalent of LDAR, in a way: sit back and let the illness kill you.  So, as with the skull-shape obsession and extreme obsession with perceived attractiveness and/or fuckability and/or passing, this is something that comes from societal attitudes to food and weight; it's not something they just pulled out of nowhere. Positive support involves challenging those ideas, but that just feels like you're being coddled, and the reality of the world is being denied in favour of ass-pats and twee, pointless affirmations.
The stuff you're saying around 28 minutes, about the feeling of having your deepest insecurities validated, is also a feature of the "pro-ana" community. It's scary to be told that the disordered beliefs that have taken over your life are completely wrong and need to be abandoned. It's a relief, even a comfort, to hear whole forums of other people affirming that starving is actually OK, that it's being life-threateningly underweight is admirable, and that it's understandable to aspire to anorexia if you have a different ED (e.g. bulimia). And even if someone states openly that they want to literally starve themselves to death on purpose, others will accept that as a valid goal to have, though they might get people saying "that's really sad :(" or "don't do it, hun <3 stay alive" or whatever. It's the eating disorder equivalent of LDAR, in a way: sit back and let the illness kill you.  So, as with the skull-shape obsession and extreme obsession with perceived attractiveness and/or fuckability and/or passing, this is something that comes from societal attitudes to food and weight; it's not something they just pulled out of nowhere. Positive support involves challenging those ideas, but that just feels like you're being coddled, and the reality of the world is being denied in favour of ass-pats and twee, pointless affirmations.
The irony, you talk about redpill yet being transgendered is the ultimate bluepill
I feel sorry for literally every other youtube channel, for having to compete with you
Heterosexual women don't want to bang twinks tho
Bitch u cute
Skulls juxtaposed by the inherent eroticism of the sea. I wonder if Shakespeare would have been incel? Or is that an incel? Excellent video, delivers in message, theme, and comedy.
Yeah, so, I don't live anywhere near the sea. But my desire to let my naked body be embraced by the Dark Mother has been unignorably kindled.
holy shit youre really pretty
The worst thing is that I'm sure for some of these people the forums of nothing but harmful loathing of themselves and others is... all they have. It's the only community they've found that they can be a part of, which makes leaving all the harder. So they just keep hating themselves and the world more and more, making it harder and harder for them to find any place anywhere else. Maybe the internet was a mistake. At least people used to have to go outside for this kind of thing.
Honestly appreciated the balance here and the line of where the sympathy begins and ENDS. Not as mean/purely mocking as the other incel videos on this site (which aren't what these people need to hear tbh).  Subscribed *sparkle sparkle*
You are so pretty
I love what your wearing! I don’t know what we are calling this—a sequin duster, a blazer? BUT IT IS SO RADDDDDD
1) I'm in love with your outfit + room setup + general aesthetic in this video 2) Your blatant thunder/ocean deity propaganda is by no means slick
this is retarded anti incel bs
I hope this comes off as a complement but I figured I'll mention it since a lot of this is related to you being trans, but I didn't even realize you are trans until a few minutes in. You a good looking chick!
Watching this made me realize that my own self loathing bleeds into my relationships and how I treat people. I want to discover a healthy way to channel self loathing, because simply not talking about it doesn't seem to make it go away for me. Any ideas would be appreciated!
"digital self-harm"  *r/roastme instantly pops up in my mind*  Ohhhh, fu-
what a wild life to live
If people with a Micro-penis can get a girlfriend or at least date someone once in  a while there is no reason someone with a "Incel" skull structure shouldn't be able to  at least go on a date.
two sentences into this Incel post, and i'm already creeped out  ...this is gonna be good
Well I have some bad news. I have a huge head, and I am cis. So there's that.
Your videos are consistently first-rate. They're always smart, funny, insightful, and honest -- and never preachy or patronizing. I also appreciate that you put quality over quantity, even though you could probably make more money cranking out mediocre stuff with greater frequency.
Sexual marxism Dios mio...
Fucking awesome
17:59 I died; to close to home, lady!
How am I just now finding your channel, this is amazing
Incels are lazy, it's easier for them to hate women than it is to work on being desirable
High IQ
This came up in my feed for days now, so finally watched it. Thank you. I always considered myself asexual because people don't arouse me. Now I realize... I'm totally into thunderstorms. Edit: I also feel like a total hipster now, because I'm just a regular happy celibate by personal choice.
I'm not the only female curious and entertained by this stuff.
Radio silence, please and thank you  side note: It's not at all the skull shape thats a give away half the time, it's the almost smoker quality to the voice.
I am a 24 y/o female virgin. I just want to say that yes as I have been offered sex as a woman but I want to be in a loving committed relationships which as an ugly woman I have next to no chance of ever having. I say this all to say that uncles are wrong about women and it is possible for women to be in similar circumstances. My “market value” is declining by the day and “the wall” is closing in on me. I am depressed and lonely and I just want a hug from someone who isn’t related to me. Maybe if some of these guys stopped destroying their brains with porn and got some realistic goals regarding romantic relationships they would find a mate.
drink it or put it down!
Immortal words: "at least these pricks care enough about my pussy to be an asshole about my dick."
i did actually notice on the trans subreddits, people would specifically post asking if they passed, and just get lots of comments saying yes, you look great, you don't need to work on anything,   and the odd comment that said no, and gave constructive criticism get downvoted a lot.   hearing about the alternative though makes me feel like it's the more healthy choice.
I........ love you
I think using the term "incels" gives them too much credit, by using the term that suggests they're being denied something they should have a right to. I prefer the term "unfuckables."
Holy fuck, I've been struggling with body dysmorphia and what I now known as "digital self harm" for fucking years. Thank you, a hundred fucking times- thank you
I've only just found your channel but HOLY SHIT I LOVE YOU
did you just tell incels to kill themselves?
Hmm, Gymcels 🤔
Ida never guessed you were trans. I was completely surprised. This is my first video of yours and I love your channel. You are so articulate and speak so eloquently. You are insanely beautiful and have a soothing voice. Great channel to listen to when driving. Also, I find it hilarious that you called the famous incel a bangable twink. Every time I see that video I think, dude- you’re fucking hot. It’s clearly you being psycho that’s the problem lol
Oh, girl, that Rain Storm...
I...you know the whole Chad/Stacy thing was intended to be - and continues to be - satirical, right? Like I'm sure there are some morons that take it seriously, but how can you look at that Virgin/Chad comparison diagram and take it seriously in the least? I really hope I'm missing something here.
My god so funny, so right.
This is wonderful. You're amazing and hilarious.
I love how they  call anyone normie and they are even more normies irl.
YOU MASSIVE GAY SHIT FUCK OFF
I didn't even realise you had transitioned, you look amazing
My worry about a lot a lot of these groups is that I suspect I would have joined them. It was only when I was thirty I had had enough therapy that I could look in a mirror and see that I was (am still really) an overall 8-9 (especially when I'm in a suit and have been hitting the gym). Before that I could only see the flaws in things, myself or others. That it came from, to be blunt, a couple of years of dating (late starter there) and seeing the lust in partners eyes when they saw me that really did it. I think if someone got to me at 15 I would have been convinced of it all.  With the irony of that being I've later looked at pictures of me at 15 just out the pool or whatever. Amazing what being one of the tallest boys in my class and playing sport 5 times a week will do for you. My parents were super sporty 'chads' but I always saw myself as a nerd and it never clicked that I was more of a sporty guy than the jocks in school. Just sports that were 'jock' sports.
There is a really strange irony that many incels should be able to empathise with the concept of internalised mysogony.
had to stop real quick at the point of "heightcel mentalcel and drugcel"  how is that even a thing im almost 2 meters tall, have been and am addicted to several different substances, mentally fucked up beyond all recognition and i STILL get laid what the fuck, incels stop tryin to find excuses and work on your shitty personalities  back to the video tho, excellent work. really couldn't imagine a better summary of this whole topic. thanks!
"...sexist old man." Hmm.
1.4k incels saw this
"I've heard good things about Contrapoints, let's pop it on in my ole headphones at wor-" *volume down* *volume wayyy down* great video, if absolutely NSFW :P
great analysis, cutely lightened - nice work
Very well put together and informative video. Subscribed 💞
I enjoyed this video it was humorous and informative
This got me weak
Gorgeous goddess, ha that's funny.  Wait. I agree. Sexuality do me a favor and fuck off thank you you silly bi fuck.
your videos are deeply frustrating. I binge videos like this so that i can have something interesting to listen to while i play video games in another tab.  But like....half of the story here is visual and the rest is peppered with hilarious digressions that i know if you stop talking and the music gets weird i am missing something so if i dont alt tab i am going to miss the darkly amusing part where ...oh i died while alt tabbing. again.  you monster.
"Leave my fuck hole out of this."
My answer to your "The world is mostly shit." Pop Feminism video: microdosing.
What a strange way to stereotype everyone who cant get laid.
Regardless from the fact that I consider the videos from Natalie to be very informative, well made and encouraging to discuss such topics, I think that she is a very beautiful woman.
Oh fuck youre trans im trans too Lets obsess over bone structures together
5:30 Oh Jesus, that voice. The mock British sophisticate voice. I’m sorry, Brits. I have a number of close friends among your ranks but I just can’t help laughing. I know I shouldn’t but it just puts me in stitches. I’m an ignorant American. I admit it.
Bravo! Bravo! Tre magnifique. I laughed, I cried, I Fucking learned something. I Madame am now a subscriber. I look forward to your other works with baited breath and girded loins. Peace
1.4k incels watched this
Really interesting stuff! I've had the general idea about the unpleasant incel community down, but I've never seen a in-depth analysis like this that got down to the nitty-gritty without demonizing them (though they are still very bad overall) or sympathizing them too much.   It still does seem strange to me that these people go to places like these not for support or encouragement, but simply to engage in communal misery. Like you said, though, it's not something rooted just to incels, so I guess it speaks to just an unfortunate aspect of humanity. (specifically men, in this case.)   Though I still don't quite get the whole Chad/Virgin dynamic. Like, sure, they're the virgins, who they mock, and yet they also mock the Chad for being superficial and stupid, while also hating both Becky and Stacy, for different reasons. It's just a mixture of self-loathing and somehow also projecting that hate to everyone else. It seems legitimately toxic and dangerous. Is there any group they don't hate?  I don't mean to defend Pick-up artists, but at least their ideology is consistent. They have a rigid view of gender and dating, and they try to change themselves to fit that imagined worldview in a way that suits them better. Incels just seem to stew in their own misery while also just being generally hateful pricks. It's pitiful in its own way, but at the same time, this mindset easily lends itself to actual violence, which is terrible. Plus, the non-violent misogyny is bad too. For all their woe-is-me talk, they don't even believe a meaningful non-sexual relationship can exist, and concepts like non-sexual love seem beyond them. They're just about getting their dick wet, which is only so sympathetic.   And of course, the grand irony is that by going to these communities and reinforcing these ideas, they are only becoming more and more unpleasant people, which means women are less likely to want to be around them, which causes them to become more lonely, and more miserable, and so they go to these forums that reinforce that misery, and so it goes. I swear, the only thing missing from this is some kind of grift. (and I'm sure it exists in some fashion.) Profiting off sad, miserable losers seems like it would at least explain who benefits from this horrid movement.
All these skulls and there wasn't a voice-over from Shaun!? The skull man himself!
can i like this twice? I watched it 3 times
Will you marry me???
Imagine researching for this video.
why are you censoring words on youtube?
Nothing makes me wetter than the sea
Hi you're my new hero
Completely beside the point, but the inherent eroticism of the sea was such a relatable mood that I had to pause and take it in for a moment.
i feel like you held my hand through a journey into the horrific underbelly of the internet while providing insightful, funny, and objective-as-humanly-possible information and anecdotes. You're a dream, I'm so happy I stumbled on your channel
Just found the channel, binged watched a LOT of these videos. You know which philosopher could have been shoehorned in this video (or maybe the latest alr-right one)? Julius Evola. The esoteric, superfascist aristocrat of the soul. There would be enough to talk about. Anyway, I really like the content and aesthetics of your videos, cheers!
Just wanted to say thank you for giving me the motivation to block sites that were harmful to my health.
Love this, love you. Can we please do an ASMR but just tapping your nails on skulls? I can't be the only one here that wants this...
The red pill is definitely true, but never go full black pill.
You remind me a LOT of Winona Ryder. It's the facial expressions.
There have literally been more female mass murderers then incel murderers. There isn't any reason to believe that incels have a higher rate of these times of crimes then anyone else. The fact that you are referring to them as a death cult is actually a sign you are the one who is Catastrophizing.
Great video, fundamentally disagree with a lot of your ideals (Men cant be women and women can't be men)  but your commentary on incels was fantastic.
I don't know who you are, but I'm only 10 minutes in and I already love you ( and that wig!). Definately will check out your channel
Jordan Peterson isn’t sexist but other than that love the video
Through their sites I learnt all sorts of new anatomy things like Canthal Tilts and Philtrums. Get your canthal tilts out for the boys.
I am amazed. She brought up interesting points on all accounts, and I am DIGGING her asthetic!
First time I watch a video of you. I fell in love.
You're so cool! I only stumbled upon this channel and you're so cool. I'm gonna follow you forever now.
Im a first time viewer and tbh i thought youre just a cis women with a deep voice. So i guess your transition is going extremely well ^^ I hope youre having a great life
I feel bad for incels. Apparently a lot of them kill themselves because of feeling lonely but not being able to do anything about it, so I can understand why they're angry but I think it also stupid
"Why do peope cut themselves"...... as a person who has slit my wrist to swiss cheese..... i can't I can't beieve idk.  You're amazing, thank you.
lol yeah no you're a georgeous godess.
Hey, you're amazing. I am definitly on the right, I feel like you're def on the left.  I think you're amazing.
God I fucking hate asmr, it makes me want to stab my eardrums
You transitioned amazingly! Your so pretty!!
Please cover MGTOW! I am so interested in that group as I have actually heard some reasonable arguments they have, but also some nasty sexism.  Love your channel even though I disagree with you half the time hahaha :) Keep up the great content!
I thought u meant 'hun' not 'hon' which terrified me because I embrace the 'hun in the sun' 'God save the queen' British stereotype most days. Gotta be careful I don't annoy anyone
I think incels are where the Right and the left can come together and say "what in the fuck is this"  Not gonna lie contrapoints, I would consider myself center-right(i'd have considered myself center-left 10 years ago), a lot of the points you make in other videos I dont agree with. I still enjoy and watch your channel, i just disagree with you a lot of the time.  But this, this is where we can all come together and say "FUCKING WHAT IS THIS????!?!?!?!" like holy shit what the fuck.  This was an awesome video, wish you the best my friend :)
Bruh that intro got me sweating Jesus Christ.
sources please
plz choke me mommy UwU
This is the first of your videos I've ever watched and it was at the recommendation of one of my friends.  ... I really should have been following you long LONG ago. This was great. (Also every word you said about the sea was gr9).
I've had this channel suggested to me by YouTube for a while now but I've always ignored it until Lindsay Ellis mentioned it in her recent Q&A. And Lady Almighty, am I glad that she did! I've now watched a number of your videos and every single one of them blew my mind. You just earned yourself a new Patron. :-)
When the YouTube algorithm actually works and you find something great.
I love this video, it's so well done. I love her aesthetic, too. Beautiful!
How big is this community of incels that actually believe in all these weird things, do we have any numbers on that?
Make prostitution legal, case close.
11:04 in and I literally have a stomach ache these ideas are just sick im sorry I cant watch anymore
Not even a minute in and I'm already uncomfortable. :)
this shits happens outside usa?
14:02 I'm currently at step 4/5. Help me! I think I'm turning!
Wow, that was really well done.
Adoration. I have some for you! Also, the concept of humanity that resides in my mind that I have wavering faith for is made more amazing because of your wonderful perspective.
You're gorgeous.
Mami will show you a great time 😍😘😘😘😘😘😘😘😘😘😘😘
I don't listen to ASMR...but I do watch ContraPoints for the great videos she puts out, and DEFINITELY not to listen to her sweet sweet slow alto for hours on end........I swear...I SWEAR!
I would say you look feminine in this video.Also, keep up the good work!
Great point about people always talking about skull shape. Probably also has something to with us being best at recognising facial features so they’re easier to single and and hate.  Also if someone has a bad skull then that implies they have a bad brain
Are you a transexual?
I'm honestly surprised to hear that incels know terms like, contrapposto. I guess it's not some highly obscure term or anything, but it hints that they've had some exposure to the arts. Dude, use that. Talk about art and you'll be 10x as interesting to women (to most people in fact) as that Dolphins fan covered in beer.
"It's time you all know. I've been keeping this to myself for too long and it's really restricting who the people are that I can have in my life and share my joy with. I think you all know me well. And I think you respect me, so I have to be honest with you about who I am. I hope you will think I'm brave or can still love me... I... I'm. A baker."
Ok, would that work even for person like me who is cis male and spends his entire free time reading web articles like: "Woman are better bosses", "Woman are better programmers" , "Woman are better at literarly everything" and uses it to torture myself?
Contra, you’re the best. I love you. Im proud that you can still approach a subject like this objectively and still have the presence of mind to treat these stupid shitty Shinjis as humans (flawed, dangerous humans) and not a cheap political applause line.  I’m truly depressed by how many of my fellow lefties are only perfunctorily empathetic as political convenience allows. I’m glad that you haven’t fallen down that abyss. I’m sure this seems out of place and weird, but thank you sister! Sometimes I need some proof that I’m not aligned with the Mean Girls. It fucks with my head and heart like you wouldn’t believe.
This video is incredibly well done and everyone should watch it. Yours might be the most mature and healthy approach to this kind of phenomenon I've ever seen on Youtube. I admire you very much.
The quality of this video is insanely good, Jesus great job
I loved your video, I'm not at all an SJW so I'm weary of women covered in make-up preaching on youtue. But I'm so pleasantly surprised, I learned a lot, you're very open minded and make you perspective very understandable for outsiders like me. I enjoyed a lot your argumentation and explanation of a phenomenon that tends to be over-simplified and generalized and your justification are very relevant and make total sense. Great work and thank you for providing new insights.  p.s. Could you post the sources you used to document the video, in particular regarding the digital self harm, that'd be nice.
Why are you telling the cis all of this.  I wait expecting for my barista to call me Hon
Didn't watch past the intro... the painful beeping is fucking annoying....
Sooo....yet another group of people who don't like to face reality that, perhaps, they are at fault for some shortcoming in their life, and instead create some conspiracy theory that puts the blame on everything or everyone but them.   Yeah, I'm not exactly feeling very compassionate about them. Still, I wonder if you could at least fight the symptom by legalizing prostitution everywhere or something like that.
First time on this channel, would have never thought you were trans, you are gorgeous, and I’m not just saying that!
I laughed when that bearded guy said "I'm ultra-masculine, as you can see." But I laughed harder at Natalie's "bread scientist" line.
If any guy would come up to me and preach this shit, honestly?  I'd probably go along with it and say "Yeah, I don't wanna fuck you or be with you because of your skull/wrists/whatever you're bitching and moaning about. Totally. You'll never find anyone, bye."  With the most convincing tone, because quite frankly I'm not gonna waste my time trying to give positive vibes and good encouragement to someone who will only continue to mope around. It's annoying and I refuse to waste my energy on that.  If you believe you're garbage and want to see the world burn for it? Okay fine, be garbage, but I refuse to burn for you buddy. If you're gonna say and act that way then you can BE that way. Keep me out of it.
Hilarious, informative, and worth sharing, as usual. I love your videos. I always end them laughing yet feeling horrified, also with ideas for a really amazing therapy group based on your analyses, as well as craving some more classical music in my life. Thank you for the work you do.
So this chad thing about bone structure is where all these weird ass vids about the shape of your nose, neck, eyes and whatnot defining how bangable you are come from lol.. Americans are so weird
Hmmmmmmm?😬 Gotta blast 💨
Long live Rock N Roll
Incels are shit and all but how do you make your hair look both messy but elegant... I wanna do my hair like that for work. What is going in back there! I wanna know!
I appreciate the candor & humor in your videos, Contra, even when dealing with subject matter as dark as this can be.   Jesus, the incel skull talk & obsession is just...   I am not an expert, but I have seen a *lot* of human skulls, both in person & in photography (a consequence of amateur study of war history). I would almost absolutely guarantee that in a blind study, nobody would be able to tell the gender of a skull if given no other context. If just presented with the skull, not even an expert in anthropology would be able to accurately state the gender.   The other thing you notice pretty quick after seeing a lot of skulls (especially if they are all together, in say either a mass grave or a memorial like a catacomb) is just how little variation there is. Human skulls are very, very samey. In 100 years time, if someone were to exhume the body of Brad Pitt & the body a random 'incel', and present both of their skulls for identification without further context or information, nobody would be able to say which one was Pitt's.
not too sure if you'll see this, but honestly  thank you so much for these videos, they're always highly informative and  excellently  produced
without a doubt this is the best video ive seen on incels
cucks can't melt steel vaginas
CP, what is your first name now? I know your old name, but I don't know what your name is now, so I don't know the correct name to refer to you.
I guess no one told them about prostitutes?
A male who is attracted to other males is not heterosexuality.
Holy shit, I just found this channel and I am immediately a fan! Love!
The incel community kinda reminds me of feminism, the perception, you know
Best Teeth In The Game
Sub.......scribed
I really enjoyed your video and your perspective. I gotta day, though, once your lighting turned blue, the music was totally creepy. Probably a stylistic choice, but damn.
You are wrong about the red pill. The red pill is completely different. The red pill community thinks that men are being mistreated by our society via laws and how our society views men's issues. What you described is the *black* pill theory. Which is obviously completely different from the black pill community. Dislike for spreading misinformation. Please make a comment or annotation correcting your mistake.
So there are masuclists now?
Just discovered your channel with this video. You're a real treasure, thanks for the upload!
obviously the trans community can hate on each other as any community can, but i think it's unfair to compare the self loathing of trans women with dysphoria-- and internalized transphobia and centuries of prejudice stacked up against them-- to the self loathing of (often financially and racially priveleged) heterosexual men... one of those experiences is far more excusable than the other in my opinion because it comes from internalized oppression rather than externalized misogyny
volcel if you wouldn't bitches!!!
Damn, it was beautiful.
"I don't want to mock them or insult them". Well, can't say you reached that goal... This was extremely insulting, sarcastic and condescending. I come from 4chan where an engineer was richsplaining me about something and recommended me this video... In a western country like France, 20% of men aged 50 have no children (will never have children), and this number has soared in the last decade, while the number for women, 13%, has remained stable. So this is not a 4ch or reddit mental disease. There *is* a collapse of traditional social structures where refusing to marry was seen as bad (everyone married, if you didn't find someone yourself, they found someone for you, and the incel *dreams* of that, as something better than nothing). Now it has indeed become a market where we're told that merit is eventually free to rule. Those internet communities make a good point of proving that people with low value on the market are not necessarily bad people, evil, or lazy. The Christian God, esp. the Catholic God (call me bigoted...) doesn't believe in merit. He gives his grace to all of us, or to who he wants, but only a conceited man thinks he has more merit than another, like thinking the 20% of men who don't have children are necessarily bad, evil, or lazy.  You attack weak enemies, like subreddits and PUA authors. But those ideas are explained much more clearly by Alain Soral, Otto Weininger, or Michel Houellebecq, who won the Goncourt Prize for best book of the year recently. You're not doing any good by trans-splaining that heteros should just take a shower or stop hating, you're not doing any good denying deep transformations of society. Houellebecq explains that by breaking traditional social structures, laissez-faire capitalism brought about an "extension of the field of struggle", meaning that before, there was only a struggle of social classes in the work field, for money.  In the intimate life, everyone had a wife and children. Now, even the intimate life has been contaminated by the heretic, Protestant, anglo-saxon ideology of "merit". Family and villages don't find a suitable partner for you anymore, you have to enter the field of struggle, and yes, in such anarchic systems, the 1% get a huge piece of the cake, while 20% get absolutely nothing. Oh yeah, take a shower... Well why don't *you* go take a shower, mocker? You're not helping anyone, you just alternate between sarcasm and condescending. At least you're getting your attention rush.
7:40 can't you just picture Mr.Krabs playing the smallest violin at this part? edit: I fuckin lost it at the part where the guy complains about his tiny wrists because I lose my virginity to a guy with tiny wrists and dainty hands. Our friends used to say he had "princess hands" and it wasn't an insult or anything. We just all agreed that he had beautiful hands.
You're the first artistic youtuber I've seen... you're on another fucking level!!!😍😍😍😍
I have an erotic thing for water too. It mostly has to do with dunking their head in a toilet while they cum. I'm not sure which side I'd prefer, though.
20:50 Channeling Seinfeld.
Holy fucking shit.  I truly feel sorry for all these people with such low self esteem.  May they find help and healing and self love.
Thank you, really thank you. I'm a woman and I'm not entirely sure why I watched this video to begin with, but your section on digital self-harm really resonated with me. I was bullied throughout my childhood. I was born cross-eyed. Surgery fixed me to a point, but I was left with an obvious wandering eye. Childhood was a never-ending parade of people calling me ugly. It ended when I hit 16, but I realize that I kept the harm going through the things I looked at online. Gross body shaming blogs, "realist dating coaches", etc. I found some way to intellectually justify the way I was treated. Ugly became an identity, so much so that I openly refer to myself that way. I put up with a lot of shitty behavior because I've always assumed I'm too unattractive to expect much more. Perhaps I am ugly to most people, I don't know, but I can say you're right about the catastrophic thinking and self-damaging behavior. I need to get a handle on myself.  I will also say that so much of what these men want makes no sense. Women talk to other women about celebrity gossip because they are engaging in "social grooming". It's a legit thing. Society bashes it because they hate all femme behaviors. Like women who wear lots of makeup. You are expected to be pretty, but you can't work too hard at it or you are vain. It's as if they want purely masc personality is a femme body. I am dead clear with the cismen that I am 300% femme and do not feel the slightest bit bad about engaging in femme beahviors. And sorry grammarly ain't working for some reason.
This video is a masterpiece! The content itself, the style, the editing.. 10/10! And you are heckin beautiful.
lmao jfc did she credit all the usernames of the incels she came across?
second video of yours and  I didn't realize you were trans until you said something, pass as a women no problem
6:36 ASMR trigger!
discovered this channel. holy shit. i'm heeeere for it!
4chan is full of truth- but it's laiden with second degree humour and multi-dimensional thinking, so it's difficult to "get". Only intellectuals like me are smart enough to understand it, and not get singed by the heat.
Aside from calling Jordan sexist. I reallt enjoyed this video. Keep it up!
I knew you were trans m-t-f- because you actually understood the incel humour, sticked to the topic and made sense in your presentation. Males are even better in being females than females, no surprise here
“Alpha Cock Carousel” is my next username, thanks. Brilliant vid lol
Women could prove these men wrong, by getting rid of Alimony.
This was a very good video. Also damn girl you pull Victorion Scientist off well.
Some of the videos seem to be sarcastic. One of the guys is trying to sounds like a British nature documentary.
#breadscientist
Can u do a makeup vid? please? Idk there's something less intimidating by the fact that you also had an interest in learning femininity and feminine behaviours that makes me feel more connected. Idk. born female. kind of aspie. I really like your video formats btw.
"The internet is for introverts" YEP! <3
20:50 had me in stitches almost falling off my chair laughing.  "At least these pricks care enough about my pussy to be an asshole about my dick" is comedy gold and I love it.  XD  Anyway, this video was a roller coaster that led to some really interesting places.  It also explains why (aside from just being an already well-adjusted person who has functional empathy) despite being a 30 year old virgin, I largely avoided the self-hate-spiral of despair.  Because when I was at my most vulnerable and busted (post first breakup), I got the best advice I've ever heard.  I happened to go to a dating panel at a local anime convention, and the speaker said, post-his-long-term-relationship-failing that he had a realization.  "I could either lie down and rot, or I could get awesome. I chose to get awesome.  You guys should too".  That lightbulb moment, plus a lot of other general advice, was what made me realize that rather than wallow in self-pity and misery and mental self-harm, I could change what was making me miserable, grow a spine, and reforge my emotional foundations into something I could be happy with.  4 years later, I'm perfectly content with my life despite still being "hashtagforeveralone".  In fact, my life's been pretty freakin' great in a lot of ways.  The thought that I could have missed that epiphany and continued that death-spiral down into total misery forever is kinda scary.  That being said, despite my sympathy for the self-harming death-spiral stuff, I can't sympathize with the incel community.  The second someone thinks that they're entitled to sex and that it's unfair that they're not getting it, they lose me.  Sex, love and affection are a two way street, and you can't force someone to give it to you.  It's like saying that Hamburgers are amazing, and that if no one is making one for you for free, then the world is unfair.  Anyway, this was a super insightful video, and it's making me consider yet again why I keep going into the religion and politics section of my usual forum, knowing full well that some people are going to argue things that are just plain infuriatingly terrible and that they're going to shrug off my 6 paragraph response and double down on the stuff that infuriates me, which is just plain unhealthy.
FEEEEEEEEEEEEEMOOOOOOOOOOOOOIIIIIIIDSSSSSSSSS
Girl you don't NEED facial surgery but you do you, from a bi, cis girl though, yall hot as hell and with a sexy sexy brain <3  Came here after seeing you on Roaming Millenial, glad I took the time
Incels are creepy AF to me...
WOW... if anyone knows a white YT who doesn't have droves of racists, delusional pieces of fecal matter commandeering their comments section, please point me in that direction. I would love to see such a unicorn with my own two...
That was a very insightful video, thank you.  And just for the protocol: I didn't know about you being trans and I was convinced you were born as a woman until you said otherwise. You do have a few masculine qualities about your face and voice, but I've met cis-women who had that too, so I wouldn't have guessed. I thought and still think you're beautiful. You have that "If I was a (straight) man I would find her sexy" factor.
Turns out there are crazy people on all sides of everything...
First time in your channel, loved it. You are trying to clickbait on the subject, this is a helpful, even considerate, really liked it, auto subscribed hahah...sorry for the grammar there, english is not my native language
hey, firstly really liked the video, and your makeup is fire! One thing, Jordan Peterson is actually pretty nuanced in his views about sex and gender, I don't think he is a sexist old man, maybe look into him a bit more? Still thanks for the video :)
i felt like the intro sexually assaulted me
"I am ultra masculine, as you can see"  “And any man who must say 'I am king' is no true king at all.” ― George R.R. Martin, A Storm of Swords
ouch oof owie my bone structure
You're the best.
I was chilling with some mates. Idk if I was too high but this video is a fucking masterpiece: Holy shit it was like if someone but his naked mind in front of me and let me touch it, you express such intimate thoughts.  >tfw Ill never chill with ContraPoints  A question: were you high? I mean because of the ocean stuff.
I am new to this channel and when she said that she used to live as a man in chapter 3, my jaw dropped. She looks more beautiful and feminine than most cis woman I know. Also, very interesting video essay!
to the young incels, start dancing salsa
Loved your use of the Mendelssohn works.
10:10 coming from the business world my brain just went "my god that is not what 80/20 means"
Oh god, this is making me sick. Oh god, it’s getting worse! What the fuck is wrong with people?!
Ffffeeeeeeeeeeeeemmmooooooooooiiiiiiiiiddddssss
To get more sophisticated tingles, listen to ContraPointsASMR.
Celibacy can’t be involuntary. You either choose it (by being afraid to talk to the person you like, or otherwise), or fail to make the choices that would make you desirable and interesting.
U r indeed a gorgeous goddess, and I love your channel ❤️❤️❤️❤️❤️❤️❤️❤️
This is honestly the best video I've ever found about this topic. It's refreshing to see a rare incel analysis video that offers a comprehensive understanding instead of BuzzFeed styled ridicule toward "entitled misogynist." To be fair, they are but labeling within itself doesn't solve the issue. Through the use of your genuine empathy however, you've uncovered a deeper problem. Digital self harm.  Bravo!
“Volcel if you wouldn’t bitches” I’m fucking dead and contrapoints has killed me
bish you fab
Well, when it comes to incels, the structure of skull is such a focus because it's how your face is built, which is the most direct association with appearance. When you look at someone by appearance, bone structure is a good start.
I love ContraPoints and she's my queen
Or what’s this other dating app called that you need to be famous for?
Lol girl get the inner circle
thanks for letting me know that h*n could be construed as a slur, I shall be careful about when i drop it
I'm new to your channel, and I love it! You are the coolest. I'd been dealing with depression lately, and had a really tough morning today, but your video about the "Cool trans chick", and this one really lift me up on my way to work.  Keep being awesome (or don't... whatever you like. Just do your thing, and I'll be here).
You get a like for that sour grapes line.
In the past week alone I've seen two self described incels make the news for hurting someone. One of them actually murdered a guy for being a "Chad." People like to think they're just a fringe group, but clearly this is a bigger problem than we thought.
Thx Im going to become a tranny now. God bless you😘
First video I watched from you and I am not disappointed. Can't wait to learn more from you!
this pretentious nonsense about >being so sorry with some serious undertone to it is actually retarded because these are such obvious subgroup identifying geuzennaam that have no malicious intent in themselves.......
>implying brain + skull size doesnt statistically correlate with iq/intelligence . . . ok then lets pretend biology is a joke
great explanation. it would be naive and ignorant of human nature and psychology to deny that the red pill is the only reasonable way to deal with women. most men are forced to become jerks and pick up artist just to maintain a healthy relationship and prevent cuckoldry.
Oh shit I luv ur voice... but when you said that... it is kinda... Disney.. princess... lol
Make asmr pls
Loved this video, perfectly worded, interesting and attention grabbing. Well done! Also, you remind me so much of Winona Ryder.
I've used an app called bumble and its tinder in reverse I got pretty much no responses. You know how I handled it. I logged off and went to a bar, got drunk and picked up the first guy who spoke to me.
I had no idea who you were when i clicked this video and in approximately 0.3 seconds my brain was like Thats a dude in a dress I find it hilarious that men who dress as women are so afraid of looking like a men dressed as a women  Again factual statement not trying to rustle any jimmies over there
Here is the cure to the incel disease https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5bKScE58r_w
I'm glad I clicked this video. Very well thought out and interesting points. I'll be keeping an eye on your channel from now on.
omg i´ve just discovered i am a misogynist women or a "women who thinks like incel". I can't shake the feeling that i have felt or thought this way towards women. Not all women but since I have been bullied by both women from my family and school (yeah not lying) I get triggered everytime I sense similar traits of them in other women FML
So they are not aware that men hit on women more attractive than they are?  How are they not hypergamus? What is porn about?  They are mad because they believe that women judge men only by their looks?   The cognitive dissonance  and hypocrisy is amazing.      We are witnessing a great transition from traditional american christian views about marriage and steeped in medieval romanticism which never really existed  in the way they imagine.   Sexual repression is the basis of right wing thinking, read the book "The Mass Psychology of Fascism" by the psychologist Wilhelm Reich as it is very relatable to modern times in American puritan country. Capitalism does teach men to treat women as prostitutes and it teaches women to be gold diggers and everyone becomes a corporate whores because this is a corrupt society, not because women are inherently like anything any more than men and trans people are
I think the virgin and chad meme has transcended that meaning whose roots lay deep below in the incel conception
“the inherent eroticism of the sea” honestly, same
I identify as a bread scientist
KILL WOMANS!
The soundtrack of these videos is so fucking amazing, the use and emphasizing is fucking perfect!
I'm not starting shit, just an observation / opinion. Why is it when guys cross dress they either do it in exaggerated proportions or not even close to pass. Probably because they missed out on 13yrs of training?  Not being a dick, plenty of practice,  just take a class or something? So you wont look like a comic book character come to life.  You do you, but do it right. Put some effort into it, not just stop at "Meh close enough".  Look like warmed over hell.  Anyone says you look fine, trust me fellas, it is a straight faced laugh.    And chicks agree.  Ps-- if y'all wanna poopoo my opinion, which dont mean shit, btw, remember neither does yours. So there. *raspberry.  And the pronoun shit, don't even start that road.
Love this content!
As a trans man, I can fully support your view of tinder. Pre-transition I was SWAMPED with messages constantly, much to my surprise as a very overweight nerd. While I am gay and don't message women all that often, just trying to strike up a conversation via tinder is like pulling teeth, and lord knows I'm trying not to be "needy" by continually trying to get replies. It is very easy, even for me, to believe that the lack of replies is because there's something wrong with me (usually due to being trans, but bad skin and weight is equally viable) rather than just I'm not his type, he's busy, tinDER DOESN'T NOTIFY YOU UNTIL IT POPS UP TO SAY YOU HAVE 59 UNREAD MESSAGES. Its very easy to internalize that rejection when all you're seeing is your own perspective, and it's easy to get into that "forever alone" mindset. What I will say for tinder, though, is I have yet to receive any messages from guys asking if I'm a "dyke" like I did on okc in LARGE amounts.
HOW ARE YOU SO CREATIVE
This vid randomly popped up in my recommended and I've since watched your entire catalog of videos and I just want you to know at this point, now that I'm subscribed, I demand MORE DAMMIT. Keep up the good work.
I enjoy your perspective and your empathetic nature about this particular issue.  I would also like to state that I think your make up is really on point and you're super gorgeous.
At this point in my life, I'm more concerned with not starving to death than losing my virginity. Priorities. You can't get laid if you died from not eating, or killing yourself, or all the myriad other ways people can die. If ensuring I enjoy the stuff I put in my mouth to stave off starvation somehow makes me less of a man, then I gladly am. Besides, heavy guys are cuddlier than guys who are all skin and bones.
Wait a second. First video of hers I've seen. Was she seriously a teenager in 1975? So she's like in her late forties. Dude. No way she's that old.
tbh I had to do a double take when you said you were trans because even tho I could tell since im friends with a couple trans people but if I didn't know anyone who was trans I wouldn't have questioned it EVER at least you look like a woman tho, if I cut my hair short I would look like a 10 year old half asian boy granted i bound my chest even though im 17 sjdherh
Do you Stacy' normally wear platform shoes taller or almost as tall as the GameBoy Holding shoes?
First time I've watched one of your videos. I loved it!
Thank you so much for making this video.. You might not even read this comment but this is such a good, more insightful explanation than my vague-aproximate knowledge about it. I think my now sister (I say "now" because semi recently she's wanted to transition to be a woman) might.. be... or might have been? part of the group you mentioned, the TTTT?... You left my jaw hanging there because.. she's mentioned some terms and has demonstrated being interested and having read/listened to many topics treated in 4chan, by the alt-right and more groups, very toxic ones, and... nothing... I think this will be good to show to another family member that's having to deal with her directly everyday (I cut contact with her long ago..) to understand her (quite aggressive, very hermit and v toxic) behaviour better...  This family member doesn't know how deep and negative the internet can go so and my sister is making it super hard for him to help and this family member doesn't know how else to deal w it to succeed in helping her transition and live better... even more so when these subjects are mainly originated in the US, right? (and anyone else of course that is willing to join thru internet..) We are from south america and these issues are unheard of basically, our society doesn't have THAT much contact w the internet itself? Facebook, maybe instagram... and that's it. Incels, 4chan... these are hyper strange things to mention here. So the ppl who get into them on the internet... well it's almost a lost, alien cause and a huge question mark as to how it originated for everyone who isnt surfing in another language and going rly deep into foreign sites...  So yeah.. thank you. I'm glad this has spanish subtitles too so I'll be able to show to ppl & explain...
Subscribed. It's about time we see people tackling these kinds of social issues with some semblance of sympathy.
Still can't wrap my mind around why these folks would voluntarily identify as incel. It's so completely self-defeating.
I live in Britain, and I can assure you a Roastie is a roast potato
Subscribed. You seem fun.
Anyone who disses your voice can fight me. Also had no idea you were trans when I clicked.  Nice. Thats a rough jouney but it sounds like you're at or approaching a point in it where it's more good than bad and I love seeing that. Stay happy. And uh... Hope that all that research of this nature didn't scar your joy. Cause wow!.... Wow...this is fucked.  I'm subscribing btw. Hoping most of your kids are long because I need more long videos.  K bye.
Chadsplaining!? I am sorry, but...lol! Microaggression!? I find it amusing that they whine about feminism, but use the same rhetoric Milo and Co mock feminists for using.   Does this mean they wouldn't be into talking about Buddhism? The first Noble Truth of Buddhism is that suffering permeates all existence. The statement of the Buddha relevant here is "Association with what is disliked is painful; disassociation with what is liked is painful; not getting what one wishes is painful."  Noble Truth 2 is that desire/craving is the cause of suffering.  There is a book called "The Way of the Bodhisattva" by Shanti-Deva. In discussing the book, Buddhist nun Pema Chödrön gives the example of someone walking on thorns in their bare feet, and then fussing that no one puts leather on the thorns. The idea is that one short put leather on their feet, as it is less painful to walk on thorns with shoes on. The point is that pain is inevitable, but suffering isn't: it is how you mentally reply.  Would incels be open to those ideas?
Contra can you check If I accidentaly tripple poasted. Youtube is being wonky giving me 404 when editing and stuff. And my comments don't yet show up. So they either need to be approved by your or I am shadowbanned.  If I did post multiple times delete this and everything but the most recent before this one thanks.
Wow this was my first of your videos that was good stuff I'm going to watch the rest thank you funny when I started watching I said oh she is gorgeous and now I'm confused because I still think you are a beautiful lady lol oh well I would try anything twice
You are incredible, your style is fantastic and you are so entertaining and intelligent.   And now thanks to you, I know the fancy word for that crazy doom spiral thing my brain does sometimes: catastrophizing.  (PS: I'm a cis woman with a giant fucking skull, Viking ancestry you 4chan fucks, I can't even wear hats so fuck off with your fake skull science shit.)
First video I’ve seen. Immediately subscribed during the tinder skit
I just found your channel and I just wanted to say that you are the fucking coolest.
I lost my mind at the guy trying to justify liking baking by making it appear like some sort of masculine science  He definitely has a case of the fragile masculinity
22:22 - Classic transgender-produced-ASMR-fetishist mind control trick.
Now I know I was a female incel :/
an insane subculture that is akin to mold in the back of the fridge, just got to bring some bleach and sunlight to it
I have to admit that I get a kick out of how hopelessly self unaware incels are. If I wasn't aware of and able to mock my own failings I'd probably be one myself. Except not even I'm *that* pathetic. I forgot where I was going with this.
6:30 ASMR
The scariest thing about looking at this video is seeing my friends and thinking how they can never find Incel, and I hope they never do, because they would so easily fall into this community and it would all be over. It is really tragic looking at this and being able to personalize it in this way, through my friends who have suppressed sexualities, or have never been with people or felt love, its terrifying to think what this would do to them.
That's a Yikers™ bois
The 80/20 rule is actually proven by tinder.
Don’t group in mra’s with intel’s, mra’s aren’t actually sexist if you even talk to them.
Tbh I feel sorry for intel’s, literally they have felt alone for such a long time
Maybe these guys are incels cuz like, they hate women, and women aren't generally keen on dudes that hate them?
"The Firing Squad of Bad Dicks," by LDAR: the bangin' new house-meets-metal jam from my new sideproject, Lay Down And Rot!
The internet continues to strive to find new lows, my god this video has managed to achieve yet a new level of depravity
Normies are fucking retarded. As a female, I can CONFIRM that a wrist is very important. I sympathise with men who have smaller wrists than most women. I know I wouldnt want to date a man smaller than me.
I don’t even know what to think after watching that. But fucking loved it.
"hi stacy its tracy" lmao
ContraPoints in a nutshell: https://youtu.be/-Gnmh8oRlfE?t=25s
Not sure how you withstand the infinite research phases of these projects. I’m grateful though. Sometimes I just get tired of having to sift and articulate an elaborate yet crystallized teen-worthy teaching moment about these horrible societal realities for my 16 year old. It’s nice how you do so much leg work for us, so we can say it to our kids in a nutshell; without traumatizing them in too much information. Thanks.
Gosh you are so queen
@all these incels its not that deep, y’all just assholes
i've already watched this twice in the past week but i'm back to hear you say "bread scientist" because it is the funniest gd thing i have ever heard
I once made the mistake of engaging in a conversation with one if these guys, who was completely sure his problem was his looks (it really wasn't, I saw his pic, very normal, even cute guy) and asked him if he thought looks were the problem and that it wasn't fair because he was a nice person and girls should give him a chance, had he ever considered dating a girl he didn't find particulary attractive at first, but who was a nice person and could potentially become someone meaningful enough to even love. He said no, because he shouldn't force himself to feel attracted to someone just because they were nice. I said "re-read what you wrote, and then read back the parts where you accuse women of being shallow and not seeing beyond your appearance." He replied "Yes, I know I'm alone because I'm ugly and it's my fault. I can't do a thing about it." I stepped away, took a deep breath and went on with my life because... what can you say to this reasoning?
It’s similar to what I experienced on the 4chan thinspo board. I started to think of my friends and family in the same light as I thought of myself in, and I hated that.
The sea is just cold, salty water, bitch.
Really another middle class white woman, I'm going with it here no problem, you do you, telling the men folk everything that's wrong with them? Can we still ask if this incel mess is a side effect of a massive societal shift and redefining of roles in the current culture over an oddly short period of time? The only 2 accepted options are: feel what disconnected rich women tell you to, or man up feel nothing, ever. Not healthy psychologically. Just in case voluntary celibate for almost a decade myself.
So dumb head size relates to intelligence
I was always wondering how many people are involved in making your videos ? Cuz they're pretty damn well shot and edited. So creative and special, most of them feel more like satirical short films than YouTube essays. Writing, filming, editing, is it all you Natalie?
Fuck, r/Braincels is pathetic
"The manosphere exists because rock and roll is dead"  BRING BACK CLASSIC ROCK GUYS. I'VE BEEN SAYING IT FOR YEARS.
*eminently bangable twink*
First vid of contra I've watched, and love it.  Went and watched the backlog a bit, and found the more recent vids to be my favs. I LOVE the direction CP is heading.❤❤❤
I think it's the same as looking up things that are sad to make yourself sad or gory things because you think you can handle seeing that or even more fucked up things like videos of death, because I think we're trying to strengthen ourselves against these kind of pains in the real world. I had a friend who once said, "Sometimes I need a little pain in my life." and I just thought she was being weird, but she was right. I do seek out things that will elicit negative emotions, to indulge in those emotions for a moment and maybe we are all just masochists.
You ARE a beautiful, intelligent goddess.
Olly should read more erotic fiction
First time seeing one of your vids, I loved all the research and the depth of it, and the trans thing made me double take, I would have no idea if you didn't say it
I can't believe I'm a femoid dating a chang. I almost choked to death laughing at this video. "You don't open with panty sniffing."  Actually, such a wonderful video (the first of yours I've watched) and that talk towards Incels was so amazing.Thank you.
Clap.    Clap.    Clap.  Just Wow. I can't remember the last time I got this good of a video in my recommended feed. Okay, yes I can. It was Crash Course History about 4-5 years ago, but that's not important right now. It's been a long time since I've seen a video this good. The first time I heard about this whole Incel thing was when that good looking kid went on his killing spree and I always wondered how he got warped enough to do such a thing. To me, it never made any sense. This video made me very happy that 4chan and reddit, and all of that wasn't around when I was getting shot down like the Marianas freakin' Turkey Shoot. I went through hell to find the love of my life and we've been together for almost 25 years. And I know others go through worse every day. Thank you for this video.
Incels can't get girls because they have small dick energy. No one wants that.
Mens rights activists and PUAs do not share the same form of red pill as incels, incels take the "black" pill. You really should blanket all PUAs and Men Rights Activists under the same philosophy as incels. PUAs and incels are constantly at odds with each other.
You killed me with bread scientist. Plus can people leave me alone? Just because I'm smaller and not an alpha bro doesn't mean I'm an incel. I'm gay. Fuck off already
i love you so much natalie
*FFFFFFFFFEEEEEEEEEEMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMOOOOOOOOOOOOOIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSS*
First ~25 min: fine as a summary/recap of a message board but not much in the way of insight. Some major gaps in your knowledge of anthro and social science & the humor fell flat Last 8 min ("4th base" segment): This was more interesting. The incel argot isn't proprietary, it overlaps unexpectedly with many other "subcultures." A worthwhile analysis from the parallels you describe to TTTT
WTF was that outro
I'm definitely a Tyrone :P
That sea is so fuckin sexy.
When she said "There's another way my experience as a trans woman is relevant to the incel discussion," I think I could hear incel heads exploding.
*LEAVE MY FUCKHOLE OUT OF THIS*   Subscribed.
Bread Scientist
is this a tranny
I just couldn't keep listening past the first ten minutes. I guess Incels are what we get when narcissistic beta males can't get laid. Those undesirable little men will go to amazing logical leaps in order to craft a world where everything is always everyone else's fault. It couldn't possibly be that said Incel's behavioral traits are undesirable, and therefore unworthy of propagation. Nooooo... they'll just blame it on others and some elaborately constructed beliefs to justify their weak egos.   Seriously, if an Incel wants to get laid, he just stop being little whiner and instead try to become a better version of himself. You know... someone who doesn't both objectify and show active disdain for the very thing he so desperately craves.
Serious question: Did you use ambient noise from Thief...!?
It's wild how insightful you are.
Hello World. I am in the most literal sense, an incel. I am very small, social phobic and had a very neglectful and empty childhood with more-or-less alcoholic children for parents. I often feel that I am a completely broken "man" (being small I don't feel more than a boy). I have had one girlfriend by some stroke of luck, but she turned out to be the kind of girl that cheats on every boyfriend she has (at first I thought it was just me of course yay!).  However despite my bitterness and often life-threatening depression, I was fortunate that I did not turn misogynist to ease the pain of perpetual isolation and the haunting memories of being loved but feeling I was never worth it to begin with. Instead I directed that pain into myself all these years... becoming as you have said, full of "deluded self-loathing".  I have learned through your video that I have essentially black-pilled myself. Indeed your video was so thorough I've learned a GREAT deal about myself despite never being a part of the incel community. I happen to relate very deeply to many of these men.. and my heart truly goes out to them, because I know the deep suffering that comes with being rejected by.. the only thing that you really want, the one thing you feel you can never have (no I don't mean sex on it's own). It is tragic that it leads to such hate. See how men break without women in their lives! I know all too well.  Saying all that, I was wondering if anyone out there could help dispel these self-defeating notions that incels have? These are beliefs that I have internalized despite not even being introduced to them... I would really love to have a more positive view instead of my current hopelessness (especially about being short, it really does seem like one of the most important things you can be in this world as man).   I am so very truly my own worst enemy.  Thanks for the video, keep being awesome.
I want to make  friends but I am so used to having my own time that I never make time to try to make friends.  I'm resigned to being alone but I do have fun alone watching TV and playing games and I stay busy with university and depression. so things are fine!   I know that incels aren't looking for friends but it made me think of friends because that's what I want as a person who is voluntarily celibate.
i think i'm in love
Great summary on the topic.  Just great.
from Red to Bread
Your comedic timing is fuckin' perfect
Claims to not want to mock, lecture, or sympathise and simply wants to get to know who they are. Then proceeds to create a video mocking and lecturing with a little bit of sympathizing and doesn't bother to get to know them.  They view legit scientific study through an ideological lens (happening a lot as of late) and so they seek comfort by reaching out to others who are in the same situation (which is natural).  It's similar to going to those self help groups except there is no counselor or therapist present on these forums.  Without the guidance, they devolve into echo chambers.  This creates a feedback system that turns a bad situation into a dire one.  They should not be putting the blame entirely on society since many of their issues stem from unfounded insecurities.  On the other hand, society should not be putting the blame entirely on them because the science is there and so some of their insecurities are founded.    Last I just want to mention about the focus on sex.  This may be at the core of some of the incels views but for many, they are not interested in casual sex.  They want a committed relationship.
This video was really informative, thank you. (Although I think ContraPoints talking about storms and the sea erotically just gave me complex feelings. All of them revolving around how I need to find a way to date Poseidon, god of the Sea.)  Also, subscribed. A friend directed me to this, and I'm so glad she did. This is an interesting channel.
You know what, Roosh? A real man is a man who respects women and doesn't need to rape them to feel masculine. Let that one sit for a while.
I think you should try to go on Joe Rogan's podcast. He is actually in reality what Dave Rubin claims to be, namely open to all kinds of ideas and willing to give a platform to very different people. And his audience is probably mostly transphobic and pro Jordan Peterson, so I think you could make a big impact here on YouTube by going on his podcast. And his podcast just goes on forever, so you have all the time in the world to explain what you mean by everything you say. That could be a thing that would really break through the anti-SJW wall even more than you already have.
How is your David Attenborough voice so fucking incredible holy shit
F E M O I D S
I watched this the first time because YouTube recommended you and I hadn't seen anything of yours before. I watched it the second time because I was so impressed by what you'd created. ...And I'm still watching it every few days now because you have a soothing voice and you're damn smart :)
I know I'm somewhere between bi and ace, but I'd swipe right on the poster of this video. Compliments are nice and people need to give them more often.
How can the happiness of these people be so dependant on whether they get sex or not? I'll never understand why people put so much importance on sex. There's more to life than fucking and yes, fucking is nice. Well, sometimes it's nice, but you could be doing a thousand awesome things with your life that couldn't be further from sex.
I had sex with a man two years ago and I haven't slept with anyone since, but I don't place that much thought on sex and I never get what all the fuss is about, so I can't imagine reacting to lack of it in such a moronic way. I don't have sex with a man or a woman because I feel I'm owed it, I do it because it seemed like something fun to do at the time and the other person intimated that they were interested or very occasionally I do it because I love that other person.
ContraPoints, girl, you're an ICON. Your ability to deconstruct these messed up things in an entertaining way is unparalleled on YouTube. Keep it up you beautiful human being.
Dang, I'm not sure why YouTube recommended this, but I'm glad it did. Subscribed!
I love you, I love this. This video is the greatest video on incels I've ever watched.
Will this be yr first 1 million view video ? :D
I identify a lot with the points, er, Contrapoints... points out in this video. Point.  I sued to spend a lot of time on 4Chan back in the day. I never really bought into the racial hatred (being Puerto Rican and knowing first-hand how much crap we get in the first place). I just let it wash over me while I downloaded pictures from titty anime.  I don't even remember what sparked it, I just remember realizing, "These guys are angry at the world and have internalized the anger so much that they've made this reactionary anger their way of life, and they'd be so much happier if they would just help themselves and get over it."  So I left and never went back.  There is a degree of voluntary self-harm to it all, and they're cruel to each other almost by design, and it's all just a toxic mess that nobody should get into. Glad I got out of it. I hope they do soon.  Point.  (Also that "Fifth base--ＡＮＡＬ" bit had me in stitches).  ... Point.
I love this video. SOOOOOO GOOOOOOOD
Ok like I honestly try not to watch videos or read stuff about people like this because it just makes me really sad and angry, but like the vibes of these videos and the glamour of the sets and the speaker somehow makes it a little more palatable?
Confratulations that was a awesome video +1 subscriber here <3  also, I try to translate the subtitles into portuguese, this was so didatic that I need to share between my friends (this isn't perfect but my english is a work in progres huehuehue)
Wow. But ets the weemin fault!!! Great vid!
This is the first video i've watched of you and i'm digging this aesthetic.
Becky is hotter than Stacy, don't @ me
I ship Stacy and Becky
You need to take on Alexander Dugin and Duginism in general. I think you are more qualified than most for this important task. Seriously, please do it. Crush the corrupted philosophical root of the alt-right.  If you haven't read Dugin yet, I apologise in advance because it's the worst kind of Hegel-fanboy drivel imaginable. But you gotta go to the root of the ideological problem to deal with it.
I don't know how you'll take this, good or bad, I hope good. I'd never heard of this channel, stumbled across it and didn't know you were trans untill you said, you actually just look like a gorgeous goddess, you go, I'll idk... Turn my lesbian senses down or something. Continue all.
Omg this is beautiful to watch. I never understood the incell chad thing. I’m a feminist, but I have dated and am in a committed relationship for 6 years with someone that would be called an incell. We have a kid. My boyfriend is 5’7 with all the face things, I guess I’m a curvy Stacy? I had no idea there was a word for that or for people of color... but we are a regular family with ups and downs. It’s just heartbreaking to think People live like this when they could actually be meeting wonderful women and having meaningful relationships! And even breakups are hard but people grow apart and theres always another wonderful sweet woman.   While my boyfriend was single he worked on himself so when he met his future wife he would be mentally healthy and financially ready for what he wanted from life.  There’s so many good videos on self improving on YouTube... my mental health has improved just watching one 5 minuet video a day and that’s without therapy. Sometimes ya just have to try whatever works to feel good.
Thank you for this video, a lot to reflect on.  First time on your channel you have another fan. Thanks again for sharing!
Why can't I get a girlfriend? Hm... let see: - obesity and poor hygiene - poor social skills - self-deprecation attitude  - lack of trust and fear of people - low self-esteem and social anxiety - rage when things don't go according to plan - assuming that every single girl will be exacly like the one who rejected me in the past  Yeah. It's definently because of shape of my skull. Or feminist conspiracy. Or both.
Your face and tone when you said: "It's bad praxis to sympathise with the devil" was <3 .
I understand the pain that for looking for self hating analysis of yourself. For whoever hasn't graduated out of that I just wanna give ya big hug to you fill better, and I hope you can get your head right.
-me: a 7/10 female -my boyfriend: a 5/10 male (I rate him this way, but some say he's more like 3/10) Something's wrong here.. (or right, I dunno)
God I would love to date this woman. It's too bad she's probably already taken.
Great video! I like how you look to incels as byproduct of a mental illness, and not as a hate group itself (even though they act like one). The only thing that i want to point out is the chauvinistic origin, and how the marketing of the female body (sex sells!) Is a possible origin for this sexually frustrated men and women. Maybe I'll sound too Marxist, but capitalism has changed the way we look the human body, and how the relationship between the ideals of the market changed how everyone looks into themself. (Sorry for the bad english, not native)
your bone structure is good
The kind of advice towards incels/toxic people on the internet that this video presents honestly is just damn good advice. When you said that they're just using the internet as a razor blade to hurt themselves with, that they simply shroud their perspectives in lies and sad illusions, I understood that this is simply a thing that everyone does in one way or another. It's so easy to get wrapped up in the negative self talk, and it's chilling to see how far it can go and to what extent people are willing to go to make themselves and others feel worse.  Focus on the positives, recognize when you're using defeatist language, identify those toxic mindsets that lead you down the path of self-hate and bigotry. The only person who can determine your actual worth is you, and nobody else can define who you are, that's for you to decide. I'm a bad motherfucker and nobody is going to tell me otherwise.
I really hope you don't get facial surgery, You are beautiful without it.
Lmao disgusting tranny. Even incels are better than most in this comment section. ALSO: YOU ARE OBVIOUSLY BOTTING VIEWS. There are people with million subs getting less views in your time frame. Its not just this video or I would have called it a fluke.
The only people who think Paris Hilton is even still a thing in 2018 are the people who saw the South Park episode on her last week and confused it for a new episode.
So they're basically a bunch of entitled straight guys who blame women for not being able to get a partner, instead of maybe...just maybe, a little self reflection and taking personal responsiblity might be the solution but also treating women as human beings who are equal to them who have a right to make their own choice would be a good start for them too.
i swear to god the lighting was getting redder and redder the whole video
Don't get me wrong, I DO think incels are a total joke buuuuuuuuut where are all the hoards of incel mass murderers you keep citing? I only know of Elliot Rodger and maybe Alek Minassian. That's not exactly a lot of them.
Your hair is on point in this video (as is every other point but) damn this is a good look
Guys! Don't be an incel! Start a band! Be a musician! Get women! Learn your intervals and be a pro! www.musicalintervals.com
Many women don't want to have sex with a man, if he is 30+ and still a virgin. They want a man, not a boy as they put it. Hard to fix that problem when so many have that attitude. It's a vicious circle.
This was entertaining, enlightening, interesting and also you seem incredibly strong and smart. I loved this video!
*Scenario* Bystander: oh god my friend just collapsed is anybody a doctor Roosh: Yes i am outing myself Bystander: thank heavens can you help them! Roosh: sorry, but i can not help you i am only a doctor in bread science
I mean there are different definitions of red pilled and associating incels with those different groups isn't necessarily accurate. Still not bad video tho.
Out of all the ethnic groups, south asians get the coolest name Currycel, named after the best food Chadpreet, which just roles off the tounge
You're good at this.
Your videos are a wondrous internet escapism experience that make me so so happy, thank you!
The more I watch your brilliant videos, the more I think about what a good idea it was to make philosophers into kings. I'd crown you in a second, ehehehe <3
I just re-watched this, and that digital self harm bit freaks me the fuck out. My left arm looks like someone went to town on it with a steak knife, some razor blades, and hot steel, and that's because someone did. Me. I am 34 years old, 20 years out from when I did all that, and it is TERRIFYING to me to consider what I would have done to myself with the internet. I'm a self-loathing depressive to this day, let alone when I was manically charged enough in my self-loathing to hurt myself and I feel like I would have dove head first in to one of these nightmare echo chambers, gobbling some brand of black pill until I did something very bad indeed.
'bread scientist' is my new favourite phrase.
Really? Phrenology? Seriously? What year is it, 1835? Great video, BTW.
The red pill doesn't say women are unloveable it just says that Disney love doesn't exist and that your girlfriend or w/e won't love you like your mom does and the kind of game described in Niel Strauss's book isn't really used anymore if anything the book describes the death of that kind of game.
Ya know with all those post of hot dudes,, im starting to think a lot of them are just closeted
Thanks for this. Really interesting. I think I was a little incel-like in my teens, but fortunately that was before the internet (or even personal computers for that matter). I'm really lucky.  By the way, this is the first time I've come across you, and you totally pass.
But not by repeated penetration by the same man, interestingly. Fucking LOL
lol i didn't even notice you are trans till you brought it up
I just discovered your channel. I fucking love you where have you been
This is the first Video I have seen from you and I like the style arready! (Stat change, +1 Subscriber)
I can't believe I just encountered this channel. Clever and funny analysis of a serious topic
We just need more hookers and we need to treat them better. If we back off of all this homophobia nonsense all of these incels can go blow each other. Problem solved.
This reminds me of my early teens until I realized I was bisexual and actually found males more approachable. Now I’m dating a trans chick uwu
I just realized that I catastrophize 24/7.
Incel: Lonely misogynist Normie: Cuckold Alpha: Man slut Me: Orrrrrrrrrr you could just be a decent person and find a decent person? I mean I'm uglier than Elliot Rodger and I'm the one who has a girlfriend. While his sexy-yet-revoltingly-evil ass murdered 6 fucking people. Personality is key. Incels are kind of misandrists as much as they are misogynists. They're putting all of men into three boxes. Fucking miserable bastards.
Guess what, I am an incel too, even though I'm not a man!
fab episode, ContraPoints
"An imminently bangable twink" LOL
Howwwwwwwwwwwwwwww had I not found your channel before! This is amazing I think I love you
this is the first video i watch from ur channel and im already loving it! just subscribed :^]
whenever i see a rainstorm now i will get a boner saluting you, contra
I am grateful for the times that i mindlessly watched shitty incels videos to get this fabulous video and channel recommended to me
I really want to enjoy this, but the color scheme and props are extremely vomit inducing. Every time she puts out a video I try, but it's gross
I gotta say, I jerk it to Beethoven all the time.
I thought I was gonna hate this video, but it turned out I really liked it. Good job, ContraPoints.
I started watching your video for the aesthetic and stayed for the content
I'm Rich Evans! I've gotten laid, you can do it!
🤮
I saw a copy of "the game" at a second hand store, and I just shook my head and kept moving, but in retrospect I really should have bought it and destroyed it. Who knows how many women's nights out have been ruined because i left that book there
Welp I love you now so imma just sub🤷🏾‍♀️💕✨
M A S S I V E M A N N O G G I N
wow, excellent video, thank you
32:00 - This is certifiable Hard Shit. So dark, dramatic and industrial. LØL.
Great video! I'm on board with the IDW (though not a big fan of Peterson and Shapiro) and I found very little to disagree with in this video. Good job!
Your editing and aesthetic and filmography and so beautiful. Also, you have really good like “stage energy” or “stage presence.” You are very entertaining and fun to watch. Nice vid :)
This video was a treat, thank you
How are you so perfect Contrapoints? I don't even know where to begin. This is just such a totally new and unexpected fascination. The Lynch meets Versailles atmosphere, the thoughtful, logical, yet empathetic and enlightening look into a phenomenon I am only just becoming aware of, and the excellent production values of this whole video essay are all just incredible. This should be a fun rabbit hole to jump down, so thank you
i like how a man in a dress has decided to talk about the mentally ill, seems fitting
And cuckoldry
now you gotta make an asmr video
WTF! Sexual Marxism?! Hah, that was a curious one!! Obviously, one can never force someone to sexually select someone - but it's fair to point out problems with the dating/mating sphere. A lot of people are just totally left out. Just like many of the unemployed outside the jobmarket! And there might be some truth to the claim, that many women would be incels, if they were born as male. Hypergamy is certainly a factor - at least for now. I hope a lot of these unbalances are a socially constructed product of capitalism though, I just doubt it. And by the way, why do you think many of those nerdy men (actually) views women that way? If they've been rejected their whole lives, it impacts their thinking - people can go crazy if they never attain anything, the same way poor people can turn reckless and violent (without saying sex is an entitlement - it's just a factor that it has an effect on people regardless).
Why y'all gagging, she brings it to you every episode.
to whomever might click away, stay along for the ride. Great talk, hon! Just kidding, this is really great.
This video actually helped me a lot. I'm not an incel or a trans person, but I struggle with moderate depression and I'm always looking for ways to abuse myself on the internet. Seeing just how messed up it is from the outside looking in, especially the extreme cases, has kinda scared me straight. I definitely don't want to be like *THAT* .
Found you through Lindsay Ellis. So glad you're making this content. You're awesome. Subbed.
Bread scientist would make for a good fucking bar
This is the first video of yours I’ve ever seen. I clicked because I saw a woman talking about incels, not knowing you were trans. You pass 100%
The production in this video! 😍😍😍 So happy to find your channel.
Lol "At least these pricks care enough about my pussy to be an asshole about my dick"
The way you sound is extremely similar to one of my ex-girlfriends. Other than the pitch, I would swear it was her talking if I couldn't see the video.
Wonderful video, I've watched the entire video 5 times now and am still not sick of any of it. Bravo :v
Oh shit, this video is great, weirdly enough  this girl/guy looks exactly like my cousin.
I STAN A SASS QUEEN
Ladies, I'm outing myself as weightlifter as someone who carries my own shopping bags. I am not a man, I am a hyperfemme, as you can see, but carrying your bags is another part of shopping, and shopping is a feminine thing! And women like shopping! I used to be a shopaholic.
You're weird AF. Subscribed.
19:20  Annnnnd...I sub'd...your absolutely fucking hilarious!! Hahahha!!! I havent done a stupid date app in YEARSSSS and that pretty much STILL sums it all up! Lol! But, how come I never seen your chnl before?!?! THAT changes today! Lol! I always went for humor, myself. My profile was filed w BS sarcasm, and when I did message someone, it was bc they wrote something funny in their profile and I'd respond to that...If they didn't get it, I forgot I even sent a message or response. I'd say it's More about humor and confidence, than strictly looks.
They took the freudian "madona-whore" complex and adapted it, how original. Pseudo-shits begets pseudo-shits I guess...
That volcel if you wouldn't at the end
Tbh pretty great video. A bit annoying at some of the SJW oversimplification, but pretty good. Only thing I’ll say is that with the whole online dating thing, it is DEFINITELY easier for women. An average man will receive no messages and a handful of responses that usually lead to nothing or being randomly blocked because she changed her mind. A woman will receive thousands of “send nudes” and “dtf?” Messages but will also receive some or many genuine messages. I’ve hooked up with a decent amount of girls through apps and had genuine relationships and dates. Women have it easier to find a guy who is serious, genuine, and honest. As long as they’re selective and smart. But the BIG thing about sexuality is that it’s not equal and people need to come to terms with that. Easier for a man to reproduce and far less complicated to have sex. There’s benefits and detriments to each group and we’re not the same and just need to accept that the other has problems and issues that the other can’t understand, and we also each have certain things easier. All in all entertaining video
Uh oh....1 sec in and I am starting to think I went far too deep into YT again  .......... Sighhhh
INSTANTLY SUBSCRIBED, YOU'RE AMAZING! <3 best content
"MUH woman " this is the biggest shit i have ever heard.
Btw Normie isnt an incel thing, its an outgroup thing, normie just means your arent versed or cultured on a subject, particularly ones that have an established base.
I am shocked this is the first video from you that I have seen and have now spiraled into watching all your videos and I must say amazing content and you are stunning.
What in the fuck was this all about?
Honestly impressed. Great video
I'm glad I never heard of these communities when I was in high school and not being successful with girls, I was already self-loathing and suicidal about that at the time (which I now feel bad about), but sticking with a community that encourages you into that... Sadly I see why some guys would, but it's so awful what they do to each other, at least I'd hope they would kinda support each other, but not even...
FEEEEMOOOOIDDDDDDDDDDS IMAO
Being optimistic doesn't make one less repulsive. It's sad to say this, but shutting out your insecurities and pretending everything is fine doesn't automatically mean life is going to get any better. I don't subscribe to this incel bullshit, however I do fit the definition. I feel that the vast majority of well-adjusted people greatly undervalue intimacy and have no idea what a total lack of it does to someone's mind. I absolutely understand why incels take part in "internet self-harm". By finding people discussing a similar niche issue to theirs, they're confirming that they aren't the only person on the planet experiencing it. It feels good to know that someone "gets it".  I still think it's fundamentally self-destructive and deeply weird which is why I don't engage in this sort of thing, but that's just my take on it.
2:18 of course they have anime avatars.
LOL TINDER xD those dms
I love this person
This was hilarious. Doing a hecking subscribe
HAHA YES
50:40 I laughed my ass off.
You are an outstanding conversationalist. I’m mesmerized by your oratory. It’s like music. A symphony of thoughtful analysis punctuated by witty banter and clever humor. You madame are an artist at what you do.
I am kind of guily of this internet behavior but for me its the idea that men are only/ most attracted to really young fertile people, thinspo, makeup to look young etc, jordan petersons ideas about it etc Its so hard to stop. And even if I dont  look at it deep down I will probably allways think that men that likes me would exchange me for someone younger skinnier if the could and it will only get worse the older I get. And that the only thing I can hope for is that someone loves me enough to pretend that he is attracted to me as I age. why dont that feel like enough for me?
I'm so glad I found your chanel.
I can’t handle how awesome your videos are. 💜
So what your saying is inventing mirrors was a mistake.
Well isn't this just the tranny calling the incel delusional.
Jesus Christ who still thinks Paris Hilton is relevant
god fuck damn i'm cringing so damn hard thinking of my bone being shaven off. cool vid
"Thank you skull people" -an actual human being.
Being able to cook is a good thing...unless you want to buy out all the time. :/
You are sooo beautiful inside and out (no pun intended). Watching your videos makes my life better! Keep up the good work ;)
ROFL. But the "1" level men think they deserve the "10" women and despise the " <9" women. Not sure how that works.
i had the "incel" mindset when i was in high school. pretty miserable way to live. of course i grew to be more fuckable, but idc now, i'm just happy to be myself, i guess. <3  oh, and thanks for uploading this, this vid really would have helped me in high school. you have a new subscriber!
Oh, honey, you're so beautiful, tho. Also I need to watch something with sunshine and rainbows now, jesus christ
You have the prettiest voice holy shit.
What about the trap pill and pink pill?
Contra = Quasi beta male
I have an ed and going back to the forums and using our vocab is so relaxing that it's horrifying.. :/
5:28 Hahahaha, you're fucking funny dude. First vid I've seen from you, and you definitely get a sub for that one. Now to watch the rest of the vid!
So, uh, imma be a bit open about myself here. I'm a 21 year old guy and I've never had a romantic partner. I've been interested in a lot of girls, and even a guy once, and some people have even been interested in me. But either they haven't been interested in me back or vice versa. It's been rough. I've had so many breakdowns with friends and family as I've felt the crushing feeling of loneliness. It sucks.  I'm still single. And I still struggle.   But I'm okay.   Because I've learned that life is so much bigger than being a sex-magnet Chad. And it's more than just "go outside and get a hobby." It's about finding transience within myself, and feeling the connection that all things in our world have with one another. It's the long hours spent drawing or writing stories. It's diving deep into academic interests like science, history, philosophy, and literature. It's about seeking altruism and cooperation in the world, instead of competition and rivalry. It's the realization of how much of our personal lives are illusions of societal expectations and the inner ego, obscuring the truth of reality and what we can do to make it into what we want. It's about taking responsibility for your life and breaking off the toxic branches of your life and growing newer healthy ones in their place.  I could have been an incel. I'm nerdy, my arms are skinny and I gotta bear gut, I'm definately not a Chad, and I'm on the autism spectrum. I could have easily taken both the red and black pill, and maybe for a time I was. But that's not the kind of person I want to be. I want to be a loving son, a grandson, a brother, a friend. I want to help people, in whatever little ways I can. I want to be true to myself and be alive.  I'll keep having bad days. Days where I look back into the abyss and consider embracing it. But mark my word when I say that I will NEVER commit to that thought. Be it an almighty God or an indifferent universe I'm here to stay. And I will live my life.  And YES. Both the ocean and the rain are erotic as hell.
I love the Incel Argument that you can´t get laid because of your height, I mean half of Hollywood is below 1,80m and you don´t hear those guys complain. I´m 1,71 and while some Women are attracted to tall man,  I still dated women taller then myself. There are no absolutes in dating, except in your head.
CURRYCEL :LAUGHINGCRYING::LAUGHINGCRYING::LAUGHINGCRYING::LAUGHINGCRYING::LAUGHINGCRYING: 100100100100100100100100
The who wrist thing made me think of a t rex lol
Usually, I find one or two points in your videos I disagree with. I think I agree with everything you said in this video. Self-destructive psychological spirals are way too common in loads of different areas of life, especially politics. Ideologies predicting downfall or moral decay of society makes one lose all hope and stop thinking rationally about their own best interests. This is the problem with some of the radical left, the 'white genocide' idea, incels and a whole bunch of other groups - once you start thinking all hope is lost, you act in a way that makes it true, at least in your own personal life.
I think I've watched this video 6 times now. It's that perfect.
So, just out of curiosity, is there actually a good escape mechanism from the hugbox/blackpill dichotomy? Some clear way to trust criticism in the whirlwind of positive and negative confirmation bias that seems to have taken over every aspect of interpersonal and political life... I mean, I know how the polarization of public discourse happened online. I know the interaction between shares and scares, the feedback loops in the algorithms and big data, and the alchemy of Edward Bernays fans high on Game Theory.  Not that it matters to me personally, as my own struggles lie elsewhere... but the problem of reliable communication between differing worldviews (and how it sounds to fence sitters) in our current media environment still *really* bugs me.
Honestly, I hate incels but they still, in a way, make me kind of sad. They seem to have deep mental issues and I hope they all get in touch with a psychologist or something, it looks like they really need it.
"Imagine how a women feels" - someone to contrapoints as he opens up his wound again for the 3rd time that day
i just found this channel and i think i have a crush on you
This is the first of your videos I've seen. And I love it. Thanks!
I remember thinking some of these ways at one point (not woman-hating but the, jerks only get "hot women"). Part of it had to do with the jokes I heard the guys in the locker room tell, who were (by my measure) "on top". There were a few things I missed. 1) That guy talked in kinder terms about his girlfriend outside the locker room. 2) I underestimated how insecure all of us really are, despite how we present to others socially/externally 3) The incel community actually seems quite bad. (This being said I asked if female incels exist on Quora. I got a few yes answers. I'm almost certain none of those people who answered "yes" are part of the online male "incel" community).
I knew you were a transformer the moment I clicked this video.
Maybe their problem isnt at all about their physical appearance, but their god awful view of women
I literally wanna be your friend
Contra I love your videos (at least the ones I've seen) and you're hilarious! You're relatively open-minded to Jordan Peterson too, which I appreciate. Just wanted to show some appreciation to someone in the opposing trench in this tiresome culture war. I think at least this CW is getting people interested in ideas, discovering principles to live by and might be leading to a kind of renaissance of our culture! Looking forward to a synthesis one day and the re-forging of a grand narrative that we can all accept.
Yo that super ASMRy piece at around 22:22 talking about them bones... could we get a full-length-Halloween-Special-autonomous-spooky-meridian-response-video with those noises? Would be noice.
this is my first video of yours I've ever seen and, no joke, my first thought, barely a minute in, was "wow i love her voice".   and this isnt me being like "you sound great FOR A TRANS WOMAN" or "YOU PASS SO WELL", even if i am trans myself. i just thought your voice was lovely and could read me bedtime stories, plz mom plz
It would indeed be accurate to call me an incel, in that I have never been with a women,  and it is not by own choicw. However I've never been part of the community, nor do I subscribe to any hateful or vitriolic veiwpoints. If you at all care I'd share my experience: For me it was never an issue of getting laid, I just wanted to feel loved, I wasn't particularly picky by whom (aside from being heterosexual). I tried dating, I set up about nine dates, six of whom didn't show up, one showed up for a single date and was polite enough to say she wasn't interested, another went on a few dates and decided she'd rather be friends (fair enough, better than stringing me along), the third strung me along, kept me waiting for a few months and then told me to fuck off. I've looked over the texts and replayed the dates in my head, I don't think I ever came across as weird or creepy.   I'd heard all the typical advice, smarten up (so I started dressing better, shaving, grooming etc.), hit the gym (I now bench 355, squat 495 and deadlift 600 all at 180lbs), be more interesting (I read up on philosophy, started going hillwalking), all to no avail.  I'm not angry at women, clearly there is something wrong with me, something I can't put my finger on. It my fault, not the fault of women, or the world at large.  To feel totally unloved by the world is a truly horrible feeling, no friends, my family don't bother with me. My situation has bred a very bleak outlook on life, I seriously couldn't care whether or not I become a millionaire or wind up homeless, if I were hit my a car or stircken with illness I genuinely wouldn't care. You could call it the "Blackpill" but I've never browsed any website that caters to incels, it a self concieved philosophy. Literally the only thing that brings me a moment of joy is hitting a PR in the gym, it just makes me feel like the big man, if even for a moment. Then the moment fades, and I'm just the same travesty of a joke of a man. I walk home lower than I ever was.   Every day just becomes more and more of a struggle to me. What's the point on leaving my bed? I'll never acheive any kind of happiness in this world. I'm just a parasite at this point, consuming resources, housing, oxygen. Day by Day the hope of improvement mlooks more and more distant, every day I sink just a little bit lower.  I don't know why I haven't actually offer myself yet, I think I'm just living in the vein hope that things will improve, then again, I've told myself that lie several times in my life, "things will be better in high school" "things will be better in college", so why should I belive that I'll fare better in the real world? Not being edgy, not begging for sympathy but I honestly genuinely believe the world would be slightly less shitty if I just cashed out. I think the only real reason I haven't killed myself is because I know even though she rarely talks to me, my mother would be distraught. I think when my brother has a kid she won't be too cut up when I leave.  If anyone happens to have any insults of questions I'd be happy to talk to someone.  Im not going to call you a tranny, faggot or degenerate. Thanks for not being an asshole Ms Points. Not really into anything political, never seen any of your other videos, but I get the sense that you're a good person. Have a good life.
Brilliant as ever!  The digital self harm is an eye opener, and it could probably apply to some of the alt right as well. Really, if you refuse to watch the news because there has to be a cover up on all those catastrophic scenarios that your youtube gurus are always talking about. When every data point, every word contradicting the impending fall of western soiety has to be a lie? There seems to be a lot of externalizing depression and anxiety on society, and the worst part is that they're only hurting themselves by refusing to adress their own problems.   Also, since you ARE objectively gorgeous, I have to point out that there is a good portion of women who get radio silence as well. Not even a dick pic. And since unattractive women are invisible even to these incels, there is an hypocricy to the whole movement that really grinds my gears.
I read somewhere that Neil Strauss kind of disavowed so many things he said in that book ten years later after having himself in therapy for sex addiction.
👍 👍👍 you’re a kind of immanent prophet in the postmodern age. Where clergymen of the old religions have failed to adapt and have thus made themselves irrelevant and obsolete you on the other hand have bloody nailed it.
Masochistic epistemology is a brilliant concept, and too many people subscribe to this.
I'm think I'ma subscribel
What is this channel
I'm just thankful the Incel community wasn't a well known thing a decade ago when I was one of those angsty young virgins and wasn't mature enough to recognise it's a result of my own issues rather than being the fault of society. It was a really dark period in my life and I dread to think what would have happened if i'd had a bunch of other toxic people reinforcing my views on a daily basis.  As it happens i'm still a virgin now at 32 as I haven't yet met the right person and i'm not really interested in casual sex, but i've long since realised that my worth as a human being isn't defined by whether i'm in a relationship or not. To all the lonely people out there i'd just like to let you know you don't need a significant other to complete you, you just need to realise that you are already complete in yourself. There are advantages to being in a relationship, but there are major advantages to not being in one too (most notably greater personal freedom) and life can be as rich and joy filled as a singleton as it is as a couple. Happiness isn't something you obtain by achieving arbitrary goals, it's a choice you have the power to make every day by focusing on the blessings you already have rather than the things you don't.
The most earned subscription of all time
Omg the skull thing!
I appreciate how beautiful you are
quite enjoy your videos :) stay classy
God you look so so beautiful in this!
What I was told is that self harm or seeking it is a way to control the pain response in your body, if you can't stop the pain you can atleast control when and how.
You use a lot of (what I'm assuming to be) transgender community terms here that I didn't understand. What does "clock" mean?
I was pointed to your channel by someone after venting about my frustration with people invalidating my gender identity. Now I am watching all of your videos and LOVING then. Also I love your bone structure, and I also hope that your surgery gets you to a place where you feel comfortable. Thank you for your contributions to this culture.
Incel communities are like support groups, except really bad because there’s no moderator. It’s like if a group for alcoholics was run by someone who’s still an alcoholic and hasn’t gone through recovery yet. Incels need to hear from people who thought they would always be alone but got out of that mindset.
Genuinely disappointed that they didn't call the minority incels "Skincels" for the easy fusion and biology pun alone.
Bravo
Thanks for revealing how messed up the incel ideology really is
I was confused and thought you were saying that you were a teenager in 1975. You're too young for that to be possible.
I  love  you
The real science I want Roosh to explain is how and why his beard transformed into that thing.
very thought provoking video and pretty entertaining. it helps that youre hot.
This is awesome. I’ve only ever seen people making fun of them for being raging misogynists (it’s deserved) but it’s good to see a deep dive into the whys and hows of incels. Additionally, the script, editing, and lighting is everything 👌
So Jordan Peterson is a sexist?. I tried, but Contra...youre a hypocritical idiot.
Jesus Christ Contra...Neanderthal skulls are shaped differently too, it doesnt make them attractive. You cry about people bashing your community and yet here you are, jumping on the bashing bandwagon. There are lots of black pillers out there. You seem really confused about your terminology.
Theres a huge group of women Incels too, theyre called Feminists.🤣🤣🤣. MGTOW 4 LIFE
Hey I liked the video. I just wanted to say that I am not an incel, I do have a gf but you cannot deny that there is at least some attractiveness hypergamy going on, not from all women but some. People are very interested in looks at a young age, and this is the basis for their crushes. Over time, I do believe that this fades away, especially when the most attractive guys seem to be eternal fuckbois not wanting to commit. Not trying to overgeneralize, as everyone is a unique person, but there are common trends.
I just watched one of your old videos and your voice is so much softer and feminine here. I was shocked by how different it was; the voice training really shows. :)
You remind me of a cool aunt, don't know why you just do.   Like the kind of aunt that would take you to a poetry slam and let you drink wine and shit but wouldn't let you get drunk because "your mother will kill me if i bring you home trashed"
wow this video is a true life slap on my reality-disconnected cheek
Verr good. !
I know that this is a serious video, but your makeup is so pretty in this video. It really complements your face shape.
Incels are the type of Overwatch players to insta-lock a 17% winrate Tracer and never learn support characters.
I love you mommy!!!! can you do a video on the church justin bieber goes to? hillsong church
These are EXACTLY my thoughts. Literally couldn't have made a better video expressing my own brain better myself. Wow good job.
Wow first time watching your channel. Well done!!! Definitely subscribed now.
I was kinda skeptical about watching this video, but I clicked it and I'm super glad I did. Gained a new subscriber!
What is the problematic thing about baltimore?
I literally didnt even realize you were trans until you specified. Ur really pretty :)
this is so fascinating
You had me at hello with Olly doing voice over but the death of rock n roll comment being implied why we have incels was hilarious thought fuel.   Definitely going to start jamming some Led Zeppelin Right now lmao
your funny honest
As someone who has ZERO friends and yet has sex more often than most people I can safely say that i prefer a life without friends than a life without sex... Sex is always so much better than pointless conversations and arguments.
This was informative and funny as hell. I love you.
Thank you for this. I was VERY sceptical at first as I am somewhat as an incel myself. But you managed to make a convincing and objective video about it.
As someone who discovered this channel recently and is now on a ContraPoints binge, your makeup and voice gets better with every video. I didn't know you were trans in this video until you mentioned it around the halfway point.
"our dark mother, the sea" FUCK WE ABSOLUTELY STAN
3:59   10:01    18:18    23:17    dat lighting tho <3 ( And OMG Ollie's doing the voice over ! <3 <3 )
Yaaaaaaaaaaassss hun, give me more of that skull asmr, please!
i’ve watched this video 678 times
The shade, the lighting, the music, the shade, the atmosphere, the outfits, the humor, the sarcasm, the articulation! Ten minutes in and I already know this channel is getting me through this depression bout
What’s the background music?
Fuck, this was educational. Had no idea losers not being able to get laid was such a nuanced issue. Subbed.
Chads of color oh my fucking god. This shit is ridiculous
Incels are so nasty
That was good :)
this is the best video i've ever seen in my whole life i think
"You know, at least these pricks care enough about my pussy to be an asshole about my dick!" XD
I would fucking love to look like a man in a dress, but I’m transmasc and like dresses so
Watched a few times now, and I admire ze turn to the sea at the end more and more each time.
I love you. Just putting out there. I fucking love you. Keep going, you’re killing it babe.
contrapoints, thank you for existing.
this is your magnum opus
You're truly insightful. Thank you for putting your content out there!
While basic hygiene and developing hobbies would be good for the, what this group really needs is therapy. They're all clearly in depressive and/or aggressive states and they're creating a bubble that's the equivalent of a suicide cult. They need help before they hurt more people, including themselves
Not scoring is called rub some dirt in it, someone will come along if you're patient and focus on your health
It's called having no luck, too many words being made up
This is the first video I’ve seen of hers, and oh my god I love her!!! The style of this video is incredible and very well structured, love love love this video!!!
Wondering if an Incel would actually date someone who isn’t a 7 or up. It seems like they only see themselves as rightful deserving the attractive “femoids”. Just a strange thought I had :/
2:25 I'M FUCKING DEAD.
I've never finished watching a video wanting to fuck water
write a book for fucks sake, i would read the shit out of it
I don't feel bad for incels, I feel bad for people who are going to become incels because of manipulation and a society that doesn't really care about solving the roots of problems anymore.
Just found your channel this is the first video I watch I had no idea you where trans until you said it you are pretty funny you might have earned a new sub
ROCK N ROLL NEVER DIES! UP THE HORNS \m/
Damn! When did Roosh V become a prophet of Islam?
I'm sorry to come out like this but... mom... dad? I'm a baker... please don't judge me.
Incels are really fascinating. It's just so sad to see guys who think sex is everything and will cure every part of their life and try to blame society for their problems rather than taking some introspection into their lives.
Not an Incel or a trans woman but hily shit your comments on internet self harm changed my brain on how I acted on my art online. I’d always find the worst comments or purposefully put it where people would hate it even more.
What the fuck is this show? How I ended up here? Is this person a dude? A transgender or a cross dresser? Too much internet for today
Look, I love Contrapoints, watched a lot of her videos, pre and post-transition, multiple times. But this was severely underwhelming.   This video had zero refutations of their beliefs (aka the black pill). How looks correlate exponentially towards your dating success as a man, how attractiveness is basically highly objective, female hypergamy etc.   I agree with the main message of wallowing in negativity (even if it's the truth) can be damaging. But I have never seen a refutation of their beliefs from anyone who writes about incels. They basically try to ridicule and condescend without actually proving incel beliefs wrong. So where does that leave me?
Also, FEEEEEEMMMOOOOIIIIDSSS 😂
I very much relate to the whatever-hurts-must-be-true tendencies. They led me to be depressed during the 2016 election campaign. Being encouraged to "understand" Trump supporters only went so far until I began internalising their concepts to justify bigotry in the face of "political correctness". It actually caused quite a lot of pain at the time.
I don’t know why but I fucking love your voice😍😍😍
OH GOD I CALL EVERYONE HON OH NO I FEEL SO BAD
ContraPoints, you are the internet saviour we need, but not the one we deserve
Great video Contra! I've formerly watched some of your earlier videos when you were first posting and you've become such a pro!
Imagine it, because you'll never experience it if you spend all your time on the incel forum.
Tfw gay incel. The most oppressed form of incel.
Love that intro soundtrack.
“the inherent eroticism of the sea”
You train your mind by what you do and read and you shouldn't always believe in what you think.  Its a good strategy to go away from these self-destructive people, because they fuel your own insecurities and fears. Blocking such sites, forums and people is a way to go. There are so many wonderful ways to spend your life. I always tell my self when I have a depression episode: worst case scenario: I still have videogames, music, pizza and the world provides such a large variety of drugs.
So happy to have found this channel! Amazing video - informative, heartfelt and absolutely hilarious.
A 4Chan LGBT forum - yikes.  On a lighter note, I didn't realise that parts of this would be so funny - I will never be able to hear the Hebrides Overture again without thinking about thalassophilia, ya perv! :)
The first step to being a masculine Chad is growing a huge beard and telling all of your incel followers how masculine you are and that even though you like baking(a truly feminine activity)  you are still a man, and look pissed off all the time.
I gotta say, defining masochistic epistemology put a word to something ive been doingnto myself since i was a kid,  and its.....well, not eye opening for me, but thought provoking, like all of your videos. After watching one, i ended up going through your channel and i gotta say, I'm a fan now!
Honestly, I didn't even notice you were trans until you pointed it out.
"At least these pricks care enough about my pussy to be an asshole about my dick!" may be the best thing I've heard in a while. Thanks for making my day. :D
I really didn't want to go that deep into this subject, but a tumblr post about how masochistic epistemology happens even in positive communities linked here and I couldn't resist anymore. uh wow. I'm glad I watched. You're an amazing psychologist and sociologist AND your videos have the ~a e s t h e t i c~
It's really interesting how that collective toxic behaviour spreads silently while some people (like me) are completely unaware of it, and how dangerous it is to ignore it because who knows how bad can it get when it comes to suicide, abuse and murder. I wonder if every rapist thinks this way in the corners of their mind and what their relationship with their families are like.
Like omg, Contrapoints is one of the hottest humans on youtube. Dick or no dick. Don't care would smash.
You are sooooo beautiful. 😭 OMG
That bit on catastrophizing is spot on. In a way Inceldom is basically depression converted into an ideology. That's a bad, bad recipe. With the internet these people can participate in each other's downward spiral of self-hatred instead of just being confined to their own
Incel sees this post: "Oh yeah? Well... well youre just a Stacey!"
That part about hurting yourself by looking at hurtful opinions really resonated with me. I literally just got done looking at people saying asexuals don't exist and are making it up for attention.
This is absolutely one of the best, well put together videos I've seen on YouTube. You've truly cracked the code on presenting such a topic that can cause such uncomfortableness due to the unnerving amount of self-hatred and misogyny. This video has been in my recommended for a few days and I honestly wish I had clicked on it sooner. Thank you so much for all your hard work. I can tell how much research you've done on these forums and it's truly amazing that you haven't lost your mind in the process. I don't think I'd last a day reading these forums. You've gained a loyal subscriber. : )
Where am I
10 minutes into this vid and I just had to subscribe.  As a recently realized trans woman myself, I know your content is gonna be exactly what I need to hear.
I know it's not the point of the video, but I didn't know you were mtf until you said so. Any little "offness" in your voice, I saw the wine glass and automatically dismissed it. Anyway, excellent research video. It had a lot of stuff I had never heard before.
I'm an incel
Never thought I'd admit this but, as a straight conservative woman I do find Contra rather attractive. Both physically and intellectually. Guess I've found my YouTube wifu.
Btw I LOVE the  editing and ambiance of this video
As weird as it is to admit I'm an Incel. Though for one, I don't have a hatred of women for it. If I had to title my brand of it, I'd brand it as a HealthCel. :P  I survived cancer, and spine surgery, but was left crippled in the process, and a bit deformed. Though I guess it'd be wrong to call myself an Incel in the sense that 'wah, women will never love me' but more of a case of.. I think it'd be wrong to fall in love/let someone love me because dealing with my medical issues would ruin whomever this prospective person would be's life.  Am I wrong to have my mindset like these other people whom I consider honestly crazy? IS my mindset like these people technically?
Dark and wrinkled like a violet carnation  It breathes humbly lurking in moss Still moist from love following the sweet flight  Of white buttox to its rims heart  Etc etc
This was a very enlightening video.  Also, that idea of, "if it hurts, it must be true" seems like a somewhat familiar way of thinking.  On the other hand, I'm also guilty of lying to myself to feel better about myself, at least in some cases.  Both extremes can be harmful.  Also a point that you touched on about sex not being tied to happiness - I agree.  Sex is a fun social activity, but so is hanging out with friends or chatting on the phone with family.  And I have plenty of fun on my own too, reading enjoyable books, playing computer games, and watching interesting YouTube videos.  Treating sex like it's some sort of be-all, end-all seems really strange to me.
Maybe it's because I'm bi, but I honestly give zero fucks whether a girl is trans or not and whether the trans girl is pre or post op. As far as I'm concerned, Contra is a fuckin beautiful woman and I'd swipe right. No further questioning.
Seriously not trying to insult /creep you out, but you are stunningly beautiful (& this comes from a cis bi woman w/ NO filter or tact whatsoever)!
Idk, Becky looks far more attractive to me than Stacy
Natalie, if ever you want to come over to the right side of the political spectrum, we will gladly have you. I love your videos and so do my conservative friends. I don’t agree with almost anything you say but once in a while you come out with a video like this where I’m nodding my head (and of course laughing) the entire time. Great job!
Ok. Look. Why is your wine glass so large? Not a metaphor. The actual wind glass in her hand is really large and it freaks me out.
The physiology of brain cells explains a lot of human behavior. Once a synapse has been activated it is easier to activate it again. Think of it like scratching an itch or I prefer walking a path, the path becomes easier to walk each time you tread it.
The black pill is basically a mix of the worst parts of determinism and nihilism. Life is both meaningless and predetermined. Ugh. (And seriously, why do they think that sex is the only way to happiness? Can you not be happy without romantic love? Happiness can be found in many places.)
you're in a cult incels, call your dad
So what I take from this video is I should move to Baltimore and install Tinder?  I can't believe I only got to watch this video today! You're amazing, Natalie! I've never heard about masochistic epistemology before this video, so I'm literally about to start some research, thanks!  BTW, I love your humor, your makeup, your voice, your hair and all your characters <3
I'm a 27 year old incel because I have mental issues that make it extremely difficult for me to develop relationships with women.
Finally gave in to this video that's been recommended to me on every video, not knowing what an incel was or who you were, but j heard Lindsay Ellis mention you so I clicked..... And I was amazed. Subscribed.
ewwww  edit: i should have skipped the beginning
Bread Scientist sounds like an indie band.    Probably not a good one...
hey, so, on a lark i decided to pop over to r/braincels to see how they reacted to this video, and while i was there i discovered that a suicide note has been pinned to the frontpage for nine days, complete with a haunting harpsichord song  ...so... yeah
the lighting in this video is amazing! its just... so nice to look at.
This is the first video I have ever seen by you and holyshit I’m obsessed with you. Well thought out and informative, hilarious and brilliantly put together. Add me to the fan list.
Damn she's trans? I thought she was cis....  had never seen her before this.
I honestly feel ban for incels, because they are so unaware of their own self destruction. I personally see most of the men who are incels physically attractive..... then they open their mouths 😧
Wow you are prettier than most people I know bye
I’m in love with you
love this music you choose
I love this channel so dearly, and it makes my day when a new video is posted. I shared this to a local women’s whisper network because being able to recognize when someone is using incel-speak can really save your bacon. Heard someone using it at the bar just last night- it’s everywhere, even my little town.   I’d also like to say that I’d be fascinated to see your take on the controversy surrounding transwomen in sports. It’s a really important issue, and usually all the perspectives I hear about it are witheringly unreasonable.   Thank you for this channel. It brought me joy, made me cackle, and sparked my intellect during a really dark time in my life when nothing else could. You’re once, twice, three times a lady and I love you.
Holy shit. This video was fucking amazing. Subbingg so fast.
I'm a trans woman with severe self-hate problems and this video hit me so hard tbh. Thank you.
I’m genuinely curious how effective taking over an incel selfie thread and giving genuine compliments would be
I don't mean to be dramatic, but I adore you and I always will.
I just found you videos and enjoy your commentaries and you said everything hits right on the point.
In France, we do not have Incels, only wine.
Oh I am glad Lady Foppington was back (if only for a few shots though) :)
I’m outing myself out as a baker too, i am a breadcel
this was way better than i expected (and my expectations were pretty high)
The inherent eroticism of the sea
23:18 So the ideological root of perceptions that lead to that particular important incel talking point is all artificial appreciation?  It's just commentary on male looks?  So.. they are _not really_ incels... but more like... _voluntary_ cels... a sort of... vcels... that have been co-opted into that mindset through bad feedback?  Well... I completely fucking agree!!!  I wonder now, do you have a full video or two in you to just... sort of let them know that??  Or is that this video??  Because I fucking love that ideological bifurcation you've set!
18:08 _"... and I think that gives me some relevant experiences."_  No, it does not.
this video is soooo good
10:13 [ _citation needed_ ]
Language is the basis of a social reality
Wow. Great dissertation. Loved the format. You are my day’s discovery! Thank you!
On what you said about recognizing cruel opinions on your appearance as “true”: I think this could be an interesting bias to deconstruct and how this thinking is behind a bunch of erroneous thinking that fail to grasp nuance.    Maybe depression and anxiety illustrates a hyper-capability to recognize other’s biases and interests in compliments and well-meaning speech, while insults trigger the amygdales and shuts down the pre-frontal cortex too fast to allow for the same level of critical thinking applied to insults,etc. As a result, a bias would form itself as compliments are being recognized as “lies”-as they biases and interests are (maybe too) quickly associated to a binary view of what is “true” or “not true”. Similarly, this unexamined fast association then kicks in, and the unexamined insults are then filtered as “true”. If this model of thinking reveals itself to be accurate, a disruption and expansion beyond simplistic black and white thinking + the robust training of critical capacities in more contexts, could help individuals with depression, that are bullied, or that need to overcome their biases.  Or maybe not? Would be interesting to research.
6:18 The irony/sarcasm you espouse comes from the old and debunked pseudo-discipline of phrenology and I recognize that, but I think the incel community is using it more as a measure of human attractiveness rather than imbuing it with actual metaphysical meaning.  That is important to point out, because the way you are trying to mock them, while entertaining, ignores this important detail.  Also, no craniums are inherently "immobile".  This is true in evolutionary developmental biology.  Your "Foppington's Law" holds no water with any person that is practicing intellectual honesty.
You are a dude dressed in drag.
He has become more womanly.
Is it just me, or is their example of a Becky more appealing than their example of a Stacy, despite their claim that Stacy is objectively more desirable?
This video has been starring me in the face for the last week... and now I’m subscribed and confused about my sexuality again!   Much love, love your aesthetic, can’t wait to start binge watching your channel
I like you.   I really, really like you.
this felt sexual
That opening post Holy fuckinrg shit
Can totally relate to the digital self harm thing. I frequently fall down the rabbit hole looking at TERF blogs. It’s a very bad habit. I really do hate the internet sometimes.
While I have, honestly, no sympathy for this community whatsoever, I do realize that they are at the end of the day, media victims. They bought into a commercialized and Hollywood view of sex and personal relationships. Airbrushed, glossed, and staged as all FUCK. Real relationships are messy and complicated. Marriages doubly so. Their rhetoric on what they think sex and relationships are is glaring proof of that.
3:04 F E E E E E E E E E E E E M O O O I I I I D S S S
So officially gonna start using bread scientist in my daily lexicon
I can't even tell what is satire and what isn't anymore. I am getting too old for this world.
I didn't think I'd be able to watch the whole thing, but this is genuinely a very well structured video with obvious effort I wish to see in general youtube content. Greatly done
This is the first time I've seen you on youtube and I just have to say that I'm in love with you in so many ways.  I've never seen this approach to the incel debate, and you went about it in the most mature way. The video was also beautifully done both visually and structurally. And to top it off you're both drop dead gorgeous, intelligent and hilarious.  Sorry for the ramble but I just needed to get that off my chest!
I know this isn't very therapeutic and logic isn't going to help anything on the Internet but it really does seem like the incels are missing something (other than the fact that their name could be offensive to the disabled community)  1 you are a living man 2 you were born via sexual reproduction 3 you have and resemble your father 4 your father got laid 5 you might get laid
Scary shit
Good video, but this isn’t from the perspective of a female mind. And I assure you it’s not just a mindset, it’s biology.
this made me sad. these people need help...
By the time I finished this video, my closing thoughts were that of the very first episode of The Three Stooges, that is in fact is called Women Haters! As well as being a rhyming musical comedy.  My life, my love, may all!
HAHAHAHAHAHAHHAHA FUCK I LOVE YOU WHY DID I JUST DISCOVER THIS DAMN CHANNEL
In regards to incels and women this sounds eerily similar to the Malleus Maleficarum. One quote that comes to mind is "what else is a woman but a foe to friendship?" They even go on to complain about women wearing "fair colors." And let's not forget "when a woman thinks, she thinks evil."
Is sex all that matters to these guys?
i feel like putting mra in the same league as incels is unfair at best
you notice that these people feel they are inferior in some way we must find a way to help these people
i feel this is a mental illness
Alright you fucking got me son at Bread Scientist have a sub you glorious deliverer!
I like how it was funny and gave real advice. You poked fun and returned by poking fun at yourself. WP
I am lost down a long hallway of acronyms. So confused.
The only way to beat the incels is to hire a hot lady to have sex with all of them.  Then they can no longer be incels by definition.
Do incels talk about wanting ‘Stacy’ types rather than ‘Beckys’? If so, how do they square that with the idea that only women are hypergamous?
There's nowhere to say, I hope you are asleep. Saw your live broadcast and care. Also, thanks for all the research into the insanity of people we share this world with... Hmm, gender-disagreement or whatever it's called seems so small compared to so much SHARED DELUSION about all of reality. While sorting out your own identity you tackle so many delusions all around you! Thanks!
Roosh the Doosh
that was incredible.
This was incredibly insightful and absolutely benefited from your unique personal perspective. Thanks for making this video!
I don't remember how i ended up finding your channel cause honestly I've just been bingeing your videos nonstop for the past.. Amount of time i am unsure of. But i just have to say i absolutely LOVE your videos and the amount of effort you clearly put in them is amazing. Also might be low-key in love with you in a totally non creepy way.
Wow so glad you popped up on my recommended. Think I will love your vids.
Isn't that incel just a consequence of a change of the social fabric?  I have the feeling (as a European living currently in Asia) that this problem is particularly severe in the US where you have: 1. A very structured dating system to an extent it looks like a job interview. 2. There are less and less places to socialize, which is why tinder is the only option... And is toxic as you mention. The main place to socialize is parties, where introverts are definitely not at their advantage 3 geography. Linked to the previous points, in the US all the distances are huge and going out to meet people is a long journey that need a car. I would actually be curious to see a analysis of geographical location of incels, I'm pretty sure that you don't see less of them in big cities. 4 job insecurity doesn't help. Whatever we say, men like to have something to brag about or to define themselves around. There was a time where having a successful carrier (not money wise but from a skill set point of view) was a way to get some self confidence. With all the shitty jobs around, it's hard to find some meaning/pride in a job 5 the social fabric is just loose. There is much less sense of belonging to a community, with all the competition to survive, people are not part of a community. And usually, a community (whatever it is) is the best way to meet possible partners as people within a community already know a bit of something about each other and don't judge only by the size of the skull.   Just some thoughts.
Imagine how a woman feels. Lol, I bet you imagine it all the time don't you ContraPoints? Yet, you'll never be a real woman. Quite sad.
I  cant get laid for the life of me but i wouldnt consider myself an incel. id much rather enjoy my time on this earth than stress over bitches you have to just reach this point.. and yeah im openly mysoginist i dont keep my thoughts to the internet.. depression is anger and rage turned in on its self.. so most of these incels walk around in real life all timid and shit and smiling and accepting everything.. i dont do that. I let my rage out and im not afraid to offend women or have them think of me as some type of a brute.. thats what incels need to do.. get off the internet and those forums and just deal with bitches in real life.. you will see how helpless they truley are and how much more fulfilling and great your life truley is and what you are capable of... if anything chasing bitches is like the easiest simplest thing to do.
This is beautiful
I stumbled onto your video not knowing anything about your channel. I knew the basics about incels. You did a fantastic, objective, and caring breakdown of their painful world.  Fantastic discussion, and a lot of laughs too.  subbed!
How did you know I wanted to mom them....?
Plus I can say, I'm glad Contra is doing something, I don't agree with everything, that may or may not help ☺
contra, for someone on the total opposite of the political spectrum than me you're a chiller keep it up :)
PLEASE disprove hypergamy.  Please! It is so necessary
Hans Christian Anderson was a bisexual incel.
That ending about the ocean, gave me a boner .... im freaking out
hi hello!! ur amazing!! and u have the big dick energy I aspire to have!!!!! please keep up the good work :DD
The way Natalie says her tindr messages is and always will be my favourite moment on this channel
signal boost comment <3
This felt like a spooky educational Halloween special in August. Legendary.
Von Braun, like many incels, also reveled in Nazism and how it helped his acheivements, then lied about faking it later.
you need to start hitting on alex jones. apparently he is a man of culture.
I love the asthetic of your room
Feminising on fleek
"Baltimorean" I'M FROM BALTIMORE I'M FROM BALTIMORE CONTRA LET'S GET CRAB LEGS AND GO TO RED EMMAS TOGETHER OO OO OO
Omg, in the back of my head I was wondering where you placed your microphone to get your voice so clear until you leaned forwards a whispered "anal" at the ceiling. At the same time I thought "oh, it's above her!" I figured out where the mic was and I had to pause the video until I stopped laughing. 10/10!
I'd almost feel sympathetic towards "incels" if they didn't have such nasty attitudes towards women. I just realized this video was 35 min. long, and that I need to make dinner for myself.
Foppington's law, ha ha.
I remember there was this guy who liked me, it surprised me seeing as while we were in the same high school, we never spoke and didn't share classes so hardly knew each other, also I'm kinda fucking ugly hah. But yeah, I wasn't into him but he kept giving me weird little gifts and I felt kind of cornered and guilty for not being into him, then his friends got involved, trying to hook us up and guilt me into dating him because "he's sweet, he's gonna treat you right" but the moment I got the balls to tell him no, he turned sour, he would look at me horribly, would refuse to speak to me and avoided me when possible. One of his female friends who was in my class told me that he had apparently had a rape fantasy about me and thought that it was ok and just a conversation point for with your friends, like, knowing he had told his friends that was shameful and sickening, and when ever we did speak he would always bring it back to how I "probably want to talk to a better guy" and that he "would like to be good enough but doesn't know what to change", he would also point out how he "wished I could be into him but he's just too different for my tastes" and what was funny is that, I was similar to him in what he found weird (these things were liking anime, cosplaying, rumoured to be goth/emo and having acne, all quite normal things tbh) but this isn't why I wasn't into him. I wasn't into him bc I'm into chicks, I have no idea how he didn't know since I was the first kid to come out of the closet in my whole grade/year group and (I assumed so it seems) everybody, teachers and other grades included knew about this.  But yh, that was my encounter with an incel, or at least the closest I've been to an incel seeing as he had the mindset aced but did get a surprising amount of girlfriends and even caused some bad blood between me and a girl who thought I was straight and still had (none existent) feelings for him.
I was just listening to Ollie on Philosophy Tube, now I hear him here.
The thing about the ocean is so true tho
“That’s a lot of Baltimorean men who swiped right on a Tran™”  I have just discovered you, and I love you
Been vaguely hearing about you for a while, finally checked out one of your videos, and you kinda rock.
Tyrones... There is an African country called Chad. Whatever.
Wait was that baking thing a bit, or was it a legitimate video?
holy shit you look like a woman i would date you most pre op trans women you ca sort of tell that they were men but then you came up annd holy shit
6:35 tap tap tap ( ͡° ͜ʖ ͡°)
this was a really good video! also you look fucking incredible in this one like jesus christ please give us girls a chance
mgtow in a nutshell
18 incels nearly ended the world on 911. Ladies, do what you can for the greater good.
You're one ugly girl
I'm glad i didn't find out about the plack pill until last year, because I really started thinking like an incel. I'm still celibate, and wished I wasn't, but I realized that my happiness didn't depend on something as banal as sex, I'm more complex than that, I'm a human being, and I deserve being happy on my own.
Incels will sit on group webcam chats and watch their other incel "friends" cut and burn themselves, literally shit their pants on camera as a cry for help, and threaten suicide and they laugh in their faces until they actually kill themselves. Nobody is more cruel to an incel than another incel.
'the chads with fuckable skulls' oh my god
1,200 incels disliked this video.
I would love to see you tackle a video on the whole "genital preferences are transphobic" argument. I know many lesbians and gay people who are called terfs and transphobic for being same sex attracted. Wonderful video!
Irony: Tyrone was the friend who the supposed superior man had to call when his girlfriend kicked him out. If we got by the popular “Tyrone” song by Erykah Badu. Tyrone was a strangle on friend of a guy who only used his girlfriend for stuff and to help his friends bum around.
Excuse me, I'm sorry, I have to go now, something just came up that I really must attend to... at the beach...
oh cool, yay baltimore
you're so great. discovered your channel two days ago and can't get enough of you. I wish I could be like you
You're awesome
You're amazing, first video I've watch of your's and I love it. Loosing my shit throughout
You look more and more gorgeous with each video! ❤️
Does your skull have a Tinder account? It really is rather handsome.
You're an overall very interesting person, and you seem to always know what you're talking about, thumbs up!
According to the red pill and this whole theory of hypergamy... Aren't Incels hypergamous too? Since they divide women into Beckys and Staceys, only consider the latter to be desirable and attractive, and I guess wouldn't rank themselves anywhere above 3/10 on this ridiculous scale of attractiveness they invented? Is a 2/10 Incel wanting to fuck an 8/10 Stacey somehow less injust and disrupting the system than if the roles were switched?
ive tried to watch this 3 times but i cant get past the first 30 seconds. im gonna force myself to this time.
The truth here is its your personality that makes you unfuckable everything is an excuse. Ive seen lots of ugly dudes with good personalities get laid .
I learned a lot from this video. Not to do with incels, but to do with the transgender part of the video. In the past I used to make fun of transgender people thinking it was all fun and games. I regret making fun of people transitioning - in the past I had mistaken transitioning for drag performance and they're entirely different and I really should have known better. So to anyone reading this going through some sort of transition in your life, I will shut up and let you get on with it.
I generally disagree with you on feminism, but I do agree with you on incels, and that's as someone who technically is an incel, who has taken both the red pill and the black one (but rejected the black one later). It really is collective mental self-harm and I think the only way to deal with it is through wider understanding of their situation, just like how I became much more sympathetic to trans people through realizing how I could relate to some of your issues. I'm glad you didn't choose to mock and deride them but in stead accept that some of what they say has some merit to it.  Thank you for this video, you degenerate feminazi.
As a "trans woman...".  OK... but why isn't a man, who wishes he was a woman, a "trans MAN"?
"I've been on a hetero kick lately...."  Um... you forgot to explain what that means. It SHOULD be clear, but it's, um.... not.
I knew basically none of this. Do I know anything.
I relate to incels so much and I’m a gay man. There is validity to what they are saying. Nothing we do in society is ever good enough.
*C L E A N  Y O U R  S K U L L  B U C K O*
I really hope Roosh starts taking up more "feminine" hobbies so we can see what excuses he comes up with..  "So I've decided to out myself as someone who knits...but you know, knitting does involve a complex branch of mathematics to create unique patterns and algorithms with wool, and as men are more mathematically minded"
First video of you that I ever watched and it was great ! You can see that a lot of research went into this and you took an unusual stand of view towards the incel community which was refreshing. You got yourself a new subscriber ! Your video seems to be perfect to listen to while drawing
You are brilliant, humorous, lovely and probably the funniest woman on youtube. Thank you for making a great video. Subscribed!
""oppression""
We should be bffs
Incels are a lot like any other sexuality in some ways. For example, for some gays being gay just means being attracted to your own gender. And that's it. But for others being gay is a lifestyle. It defines their politics, their fashion, their persona, everything.  So too with Incels. For some Incels, not being able to get laid is met with a shrug and a "shit happens." For others, being Incel is a lifestyle that defines who they are.
Wow that got deep
I’m just going to be a wlw over here agreeing that you are gorgeous. So glad my girlfriend introduced me to your videos. Also, I am super jealous of your makeup skills! Why can’t I do my eyes like yours?
Hi, Natalie: Have you thought about adding Spanish subs to your videos? I can see them becoming a hit among the spanish speaking community, which is huge. These topics are starting to resonate a lot in our countries, as  masculinist movements  advance here too, reacting to feminism.
Ever heard of *motion of the ocean?*
I love you
W..T...F! Contra! I just found out that I have watched all your videos! This is unacceptable! Clone yourself at least 3 or 4 times or I will unsub
I kinda needed this video and didn't know it? Weird feeling. I've been dealing with exactly the two sentiments described of incels and trans women, being a genderfluid amab person who's been in a series of abusive relationships with women and was recently abandoned.  I wasn't capable to put it into words, but now I can do it, and I think it's a start for self healing this bullshit. Watching your videos is never easy, but it's always productive. You represent me.  Thank you, as always, Contra. You are awesome. Keep teaching me some lessons. ; )  Hugs from Brasil!  PS: I don't know if people already created one, but #ContrOlly
Time to go fuck the ocean!!!
For the love of GOD stop using qu**r as an umbrella term
I am seriously impressed with your video and your perspective. Best analysis of incels I have yet heard. Smart and alluring. Couldn't stop watching/listening.
I am an incel because a brown recluse spider bit me on the dick!
Well today I learned I might be an incel, a thing I did not know even existed. Live and learn!
Not to shit on any fucking fabulous Stacy's out there (werk it bitches) but I'm kinda all about Becky, she cute af.  Also, I wonder if Stacy comes from Fergilicious, because that shit definitely didn't come from Stacy's Mom, Stacy is a flat-assed Becky in that one.
I just want to say that I do genuinely feel bad for these kinds of people, I can sympathise. I'm not an incel, and I'm not even a virgin, but sometimes it really does feel like noone will ever love you. Before this past year I had asked people out before, they said no, and I don't resent anyone for it, I never did, it took alot of built-up courage to ask anyone out, but I said fuck it to rejection and did it anyway. And sometimes it feels after being rejected and seeing other happy people (or atleast their best moments on Instagram that makes them seem perfect) it's easy to get lost in the narrative that for no reason at all everybody hates you, or you're unlovable because you're not someone who gets alot of girls, and it's easy to generalise and stereotype all women and all men who have sex with many women under one massive umbrella. I avoided this myself because to me, using minimal critical thought, to be fair,  a universal conspiracy to not fuck me seems far-fetched, there are always prostitutes and stuff anyway. But a loving relationship is what alot of people strive for as part of their life and that's what I wanted. Ultimately what changed for me was that I said to myself that I had to stop saying no to things. I just started doing... well, stuff and I wound up getting drunk, smoking weed, and having sex like a normal-ass teenager/young adult, there's no shortage of people out there, be yourself, thrust yourself into uncomfortable situations and just fucking live your life and you'll find the fulfilment you're looking for. Be responsible in your actions, but also, like, only to the point where you don't die or something, you know what I mean. Just get our there, find a social forum in irl or meet up with your internet buddies (KNOW THEM WELL, FIRST) and have a good time.
This "lie down and rot" mentality is really messed up. Really well made video btw. Also: when can humans stop giving a fuck about their bones? You are who you are. If you identify as a woman, you are a woman. Do anything to make the dysphoria less, but skulls - really?
I was not prepared for that intro
In an age where it's easy to just throw up your hands and say "fuck it", your videos help me to kick my own ass out of apathy and continue to use critical analysis, logic, and (gasp!) a hope for humanity to keep on keeping on. Thank you for being you and for sharing your ideas on YouTube--love you!
I literally didn’t notice that you’re trans until you talked about it in the video. Also, your content is super well researched and overall made. You just gained a new subscriber.
This was the most glorious content I’ve ever consumed. The aesthetics in this video are amazing! I loved the lighting changes, and the font. You are a goddess. I’m subscribing. Thank you for a wonderful well thought out video!
How nice that he's got a new hobby. If he likes bread science, he should try cake carpentry. It's another form of applied glucose engineering, requiring very precise measurements and good hand-eye coordination.  I personally don't have the temperament for comestible chemistry outside of special occasions, but I enjoy mechanical fabric stabbing on a regular basis.
Okay, I deleted my original comment that was mean towards Incels because I felt pity. But then the last part of the video reminded me on why I hate those dudes. Fuck Incels, I hope they all rope.
Contra, please, please, please don't remove your....ummmm rifle. Keep it! Oh and If I wasn't married I would totally chase you.
Great, now i’m gonna get a boner everytime i see the sea
I know you’re smart bc you’re hilariously witty. I love you.
Number 3 please.
"a stratocaster in their bedroom as an outlet for their sexual frustration"  I feel personally attacked
LOVE THIS! So informative, insightful, and funny. You are badass and beautiful.
This is my first video and I love you
I don't think you're masculine looking, you are quite pretty.
good job on the baroque-era costume
I have no idea why this video was recommended to me but I'm soooo happy I found you! New sub!
Please make a video about lgbt+ issues next!
extremism breeds in silence, if you  refuse to have a dialouge with people then they are unable to see a alternative perspective and become more radicalized. we are socal creatures. here is a entire culture deticated to this idea of being ostracized and socally abandoned, this cry for help and people are encouraging the violence and the hatred and the extremism by not responding to that cry in any meaningful way. just by mocking this primal  basic human need.   im trans and trying to date while being this horrible middle ground in most peoples minds means nobody wants me. even if i do i cant have normal anything because post op is still not a garenteed and when it is sucsessful you lose alot of the feeling anyways and for ftm you cant even really use it. so im stuck with plastics i cant feel and useless organs that mock me.   comeing to terms with this isolation is crippling. its natural.   imagine someone who dont even get enough socal interaction of basic talking.  weve done studies with human isolation with prisons doing solitary confinement, its some of the worst conditions a human can go in. you actually start to degrade the ability to talk in isolation where  if left at months can forget but still relearn how to speak    but if left for years can be almost compleately unable to speak the languige.    sympathize with people, biggotry comes from a place of pain and ignorance, the only way to fight it is to show it diffrently.
Sour...grapes?
If we can't refute the naturalist tendency of incel thought, it leaves an opening for social darwinists to swoop in and convince these guys of other naturalist theories of inequality, which is perhaps why jordan peterson is quick to defend them. This video doesn't accomplish that, and, judging from the comments, the overall effect has been little besides community self-applause
I love your videos. You're amazing sweetie! *types credit card number aggressively on Patreon*
Empathizes but doesn't engage. The left is completely unprepared to engage in the incel debate because it lacks the conceptual resources to maintain a position that protects the rights of women but also remains sensitive to a case of material inequality that can't be shushed away as an epiphenomenon of economic inequality
I could have been like this. It's scary seeing what I could have become.
Natalie, you get more intense and gorgeous and smart every video.
Fucking losers.
Amazing video, keep up the good work and body positivity girl!
Even as "a conservative homophobe and transophobe" in the eyes of most SJWs, you're one of the reasons why I still feel ideologically closer to the said SJWs than to most of their "opponents". Anyway, very interesting and great video (again).
She’s literally so gorgeous. I’m a fuckin mess.
i have just met you and i love you.
never actually thought about suicide by storm or sea until now. thanks contra, just a few more ideas for the old list of "suicides i can attempt when I'm done living alone". i know, not the best name for a list but beggars can't be choosers sometimes.
I wish I could super-like this video.
Bread Scientists!!!!!! This was all excellent. I loved it and look forward to watching more. Smash subscribe. And if it matters, I hadn't 'clocked' you till you brought it up. I hope your bone shave makes you feel great..xx
Lol nice video but as a semi incel I learned nothing I didn't already know
Where the fuck am I...
I'm ultra masculine IM FUCKING CACKLING
Everything red-pillers say about sex and dating is so thoroughly backed up by science, specifically evolutionary psychology, that there is no real arguing with any of it. The problem a lot of people run into is that they make normative judgments about that data, or think the red-pillers are making normative judgments about that data, and some of them do, but most would say they're just acknowledging a reality.   The 80/20 rule is real. See Zipf's law and the Pareto principle, as well as the data gathered from dating apps that demonstrates the law and the principle in action, even in, yes, the sexual marketplace, because as you rightly point out, that is essentially what dating is.  Hypergamy is real.  https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hypergamy  It is a legitimately recognized concept within the social sciences, and it is a mating strategy women are genetically soft-wired to practice, because, simply put, if you're born a biological female, once you hit breeding age, you have one opportunity every 9 months to produce viable offspring. You want good genes for your kid, and a mate that will invest in offspring with the hope that said mate will contribute a great deal toward the viability of that offspring even after childbirth. In contrast, the most effective male mating strategy, also soft-wired in, is to try and get as much free pussy as possible, and hope that at least one of the kids is viable. None of this is outside the realm of mainstream evolutionary biology.  There are a lot of things the red pill community is right about that feminists do not want to admit, for varying potential reasons; they don't like what that implies about women (again falling into the trap of naturalist fallacy, or reverse-naturalist fallacy as it were), they don't want men to understand these things, they're worried about optics, or any other number of reasons I could scarce begin to guess at.  What's more, most women have an average of 1-2 children. The average for men is the same, but the actual distribution of children had across both genders looks wildly different. Some men are going to have a lot of kids, some men will have no kids. Most women will have at least one kid. Like with most gender-based bell-curves, averages look pretty equal, but the internal distributions show men at the extremes, and women at the center. The reality is that there are going to be a lot more men than women who simply never experience sex, who will have zero chance to procreate. I think you're right to sympathize with them, but I don't think you go far enough, and here's why; Maslow put sexual physical contact where he did in the hierarchy of needs for a reason. Look at how old people forgotten in nursing homes act around volunteers or nurses; they will reach out and try to touch them, sexually or otherwise. When babies aren't held, they die to a condition simply known as "failure to thrive." The fact is, human beings need touch, from other human beings. Or they die.   Sometimes, usually when the three factors of fatherlessness, severe social ostracization, and autism coalesce, that death is messy and violent enough that they take others with them. Unless we can find a way to treat this kind of suffering, (or expose and rectify some of the glaring injustices perpetrated against men and boys in this society, more often than not by the hands of women, statistically speaking) this is going to keep happening. I've had one person so foolish to suggest that anger management is the kind of treatment necessary to put a stop to this. I don't imagine anger management would do anything for such a person, other than perhaps drive them to suicide faster.  Since you brought up Elliot Rodger, I'd like to point two things out about him; first, in his own words, "the only thing that matters in this world is female approval." He said that in the very video you showed a clip of, and in his rampage, he killed more men than women. Incels don't hate women; they hate the fact that they will, in all probability, never be with one. The stuff that looks like hate is nothing more than reaction-formation, and we know it is because we know how they would respond the instant they got propositioned by even a slightly below-average-looking woman.  You can say that the way incels are approaching their problems is only going to hurt them more, and you may very well be right, but society hasn't given them much other choice. Everywhere they go, they get severely socially ostracized, one of those conditions I listed as a correlative factor for people who become mass shooters. So they stick to their private spaces with each other, and sometimes even those get shut down. Society has a history of demonizing men, especially young men, who aren't in some way useful to society, particularly useful to women. These incels are the ones who are going to get the shortest possible end of that fuckstick, and we wonder why mass shootings are almost exclusively a boys club.
CW: Eating disorder  The digital self harm part really reminded me of Pro-Ana sites and forums. They made me feel guilty for not being good enough at starving myself to death but I couldn't stop scrolling through them for hours on end. I'd rank myself against other sufferers on the site and of course never be 'the best' at anorexia and I'd feel disgusting. I was deteriorating at an extreme rate at the time and I don't know if it even could have made my behaviour worse but it made my mental health worse and probably made it harder to recover and allow myself to want to live again
the digital self harming thing is so real, it's why depression and self harm blogs exist, and proana and promia eating disorder instagram accounts, people derive a masochistic pleasure from having their insecurities validated
As a cisgender straight male who is currently single 4 years from last relationship I don’t think I am Entitled to any woman. I attracted to the person or what physical attributes she has
From what I've seen a lot of incels talk about how women only go after "Chads" and they never get a chance but that's just the thing. Most if not them want like really hot girlfriends. Like way out if their league. When they don't get her they just spiral into their pill mentality. Hilariously enough they are just as bad as the women they claim to hate so much. They refuse to lower their ridiculous standards and can never get any. They only like those women because of their bodies not because they have any real connections with them. Of course a solid 5 or 6 isn't gonna get a 9 or a ten unless the world is particularly topsie turbie that day.
The way you fucking write the Russian at the start is disgusting, and a sign that you cannot even be bothered to get correct pronunciations for a non-latin alphabet.  the first word is spelled агитпроп (The way you spelt it it reads Agitryaor)  the second is Политбюро (Yours reads rolitbtseyao) the third is компрома́т (yours reads komryaomat)  not to mention a lot of your 'Cyrillic' letters are non-existent, like the backward K. Educate yourself before attempting to educate others
You wield your sexuality and thought process like a hot knife, i honestly think you are a standard that i want to live up to as a woman. I definitely love you in a from-a-distance-admirial-i-am-totally-not-thinking-of-wearing-your-gorgeous-skin kind of way. (Okay all joking aside you have obviously put in a lot of work to get to where you are and i think you have risen like the birth of venus from the ancient sea a beautiful woman who doesn't need to ever feel less than what you are...perfect in your lack of perfection, a beautiful contra-diction.)
"Volcel if you wouldn't, bitches"
Holy crap, I have a Chad skull? Why don't I have better luck with women? :P  Oh yeah, my tiny wrists apparently.  But I've gotten "8's and 9's". But I'm a 6/10. I'm starting to think these guys don't know what they're talking about.  Also first time watching.  Love your set and lighting.
I love Contrapoints and hope her channel grows even larger!!!
*LOW DOWN AND ROOOOOT*   *sick fucking breakdown*
I with no SR.
Gesamkunstwerk.
This is amazing.
I've watched exactly two (2) of your videos and im actu a lly sobbing please adopt me
Thanks, Natalie, now I wouldn't be able to enjoy nature any other way
I love this? How did I not find this before? I really enjoy the aesthetic of you hanging out and just giving out the real info, thank you!
This is the first video ive ever seen of yours, i love this
Your so funny I subbed right away!
damn, the language in that fanfic at the beginning almost distracted me from the fact that that is some basic ass fucking
I have so much respect and admiration for ContraPoints, and I hope everyone in the world does!!! They are very intelligent and I love their videos
"Ultra Masculine Bread Scientist" lulz!
This is really great; it reminds me of the gulag archipelago, where circumstance is an important variable in radicalization; I recognize my own past despair in them
How does this person focus with the different color lights shining in their face?
YouTube keeps recommending this video to me. Time to see what this shit is.
Almost 500k views already
imo this is your best video in a while, and I really enjoyed it. Thanks so much for sharing!
This may seem forward, but I love you so much! I don't know how I stumbled across your content a year or so ago, but it is amazing and I wait for it with breath that is baited. #clickthebellnotificationbleeeeeh #breadscientist
Fuck i thought he was a woman i been clicked bait.
I don't get the "volcel If you wouldn't" part (not a native speaker). Can anyone explain?
Your voice is so soothing to me
Love the nuance of this video!!
"alpha males" are just over compensating, read up about it i should add that the theory of the alpha male was a misunderstanding of the dynamics of a wolf pack, the pack consisted of parents and pups, parents have to take on a dominating position while the pups acquire experiences eventually becoming equals
INadequate single CELL amoebas, poor babies, surprisingly it isn't looks that attract or put off (other than initially) it is the content of one's character (and wallet helps a little)
"The inherent eroticism of the sea" noice. Also "how about a kiss boy, what's wrong with a kiss?"
honestly, this is the first vid ive seen of yours, i didnt know you were trans until you said so... i actually just thought you had a strong bone structure... like a model.. i am jelly.
FIRE CONTENT ! I need a job so I can support on patreon. Have this sub til I get my money up.
Replace incels with feminists (especially the explicitly man-hating kind) and the similarities are uncanny
Does anyone understand the joke about sour grapes?
You know I want to X out of your video, because it's boring, but your voice is so pleasant that I can't.
Its like the pro anorexia forums
I know it sounds lame, but personality counts for a lot. These incels and morose trans people on 4chan just don't get it. I've seen stories of severe burns victims going on to have families with members of the opposite sex, so how the hell would that happen, if it was all about looks?
Not getting laid has been a facet of life since the beginning of humanity...hence the oldest profession! Incels just need to splash the cash and fuck some hookers!
Bravo!
Incels need to shut their mouths for 35 minuets and watch this video
Wow. I was really surprised she hasn't had facial reconstruction yet. She really naturally looks feminine.
You dumb as hell and I love it
Tim Pool sent me here. You are FUCKING HILARIOUS. Great stuff. Fucking great.
This is my second ContraPoints video.  The first one was the one on JBP, which as someone who likes JBP was harder to watch, but this was a good second choice because Incels really bug me and therefore I didn't start watching with my guard up.  It really helps show how much thought ContraPoints puts into her work.  And, it really is funny and entertaining.  Bravo.
can you be my new mom omg
PLEASE MAAM! may i have some coochie?
WOW, that was magnificent! Are youtubers allowed that smart?
Confirmed : storms are erotically charged
You are ALWAYS brilliant! This was beautifully executed and honestly, the only video I've ever seen about incels that actually delved deeper and had any true thought to such a complicated subject. Thank you too, for talking about some of your more personal things. It is probably difficult to do.  I absolutely adore your channel and you are amazing.
>tfw you browse tttt...
"dick or no dick?" "I'm working on it guys." God relatable.
This is hilarious, thank you
i didnt even know there were names for the asian chads h u h
Incels should check their personalities because many are quite good looking so that's not why they can't get laid.
I could never have guessed you were trans. Just a near perfect woman, which few of us are, whether we were born female or not.
Who are the narrators for the incel posts?  They deserve some voiceover awards, just pure gold!   Thank you for a thoughtful look at this phenomenon. I cant help but feel for them - feelings of rejection and self-loathing are something we all go through, but they are stuck in a death spiral...or angry echo chamber, as the case may be.  On one of the most popular incel message boards, the rules ban: worship or praise (not in the religious sense, just looking up to people), and bragging (any life successes, basically).  Additionally, "bait" threads are disallowed, resulting in the fact that any debate that maybe females aren't the root of all their problems can be a bannable offense.  Having a place to blow off steam with other like-minded people can be alluring, but they get stuck in a cycle of negativity where the only acceptable response is one-upmanship of violence or nihilism. They need help, and are stuck somewhere that actively discourages it.
i couldn't watch the whole video. not because of contra, she's perfect. i just can't believe incels exist. they've created this culture with its own vocabulary and everything in which they literally drown themselves in a pool of self pity and hatred. bro, what are you doing?? if you're an incel and reading this: leave that shitty community. i know incels who have killed themselves because it got into their head that they were gunna die alone and a virgin because they are lesser than other men. and that's not true. there is no chad, or becky or stacy. look, meeting women is simple: first thing is first, you gotta look after yourself. if you're overweight, eat less and exercise. you don't have to go to a gym. buy a jumprope , do some cardio and stretching in your room or in the backyard. next, personal hygiene. shave, get a clean cut. take care of your skin. a cleanser, toner and a moisturizer for the face and lotion for the body. fashion for men is easy. straight jeans that hug the legs, tshirts, hoodies, shirts, boots, and a bomber jacket for the fall and peacoat for winter. easy and looks good. can't go wrong with classics. finally, go out. doesn't matter if you're alone. just go to places. the mall, events like concerts, coffee shops, etc. take in the moment. observe others. relish in the fact that you're alive and healthy. talk to people when you're ready. build some confidence while making friends. when you look and act like a normal person, that's when people will gravitate to you. that includes girls. and if things don't work out at first because there was no chemistry or whatever, it's not because there's something wrong with you - you just weren't her type. move on to the next. even attractive people get rejected. don't go at it with the mindset that the goal is to get laid. the goal is for you to grow as a person as cheesy as it sounds.
I have tiny dainty wrists. I kinda like it though.
I think you have a thing for the sea, just a haunch. Anyways I love the presentation of this video and the calm shit face of it. So jood gob.
I wish I finished college. Nothing is this video or comments makes sense to me. I had a "what the hell is going on reaction". One of the strangest videos I've ever seen.
Obsessed obsessed obsessed! Subscribed.
@19:03 If they really wanted you they'd take you either way
Holy shit.  Just came across your channel.  Not at all the content I thought I was going to see.  Super impressed. Keep it up.  I'm sure there's topics we disagree over, but the way you think and approach at least this topic is what the internet needs more of.
Despite what you started off as you are a very pretty Woman and I'd like to take you to dinner just to pick your brain
Holy shit I just discovered your channel   I had NO IDEA that you were trans. 100% thought you were just a woman with a deep voice.   Also I love your content. The victorian woman with the calipers talking about skull size made me laugh like a stoned teenager. It's all I've ever been able to think about when people talk about thin wrists and "millimeters of bone".   Your editing is amazing your scripts are beyond amazing. I'm now a fan for life.  Edit: Watch the god damn video before you respond to this comment with patronizing garbage.
You make me want to do drag again. Thanks for being so classy and beautiful.
Leave My Fuckhole Out of This: The Biography of Natalie Wynn
lol her voice
Are you a man?
The incel community kinda sounds a little like the Pro-Ana movement  (Pro-Anorexia/eating disorder encouragement forums).... both toxic! on an unrelated note, i thought ‘Hon’ was short for honey so now imma not use that anymore!! 🙀
Speaking honestly, this is my first video of yours I've ever seen, and I honestly had no clue you were trans until you said so
I ship Contra with THE OCEAN - Shape of Water 2: The Wetter - The Better
i have that octopus ring :3 also this is the first video i've seen of yours and as a fellow trans woman i think i can honestly say you are my new hero <3
This is a great video, but I really wish some things that are scientific would addressed as such, instead of just being ridden off as part of the Incel ideology. Like the fact that male and female skulls are different in numerous ways, and the more masculine a skull, the more attractive a man will be percieved in the eyes of women. Sociologists have studied and proven this for decades now, it isn't just based off of anecdotals form incels or their ideology. or ideological. The same goes for the 80/20 rule. Women really do have a higher bar for what they consider attractive, and will actively seek out much higher rated men than their male counterparts will do to them. I know that you're probably intelligent enough to know that this is the case, but crazy lefties who think everything is a social construct, do not, and so it would have been nice if you would have clarified it.
Not sure how I got here from Joe Rogan but I'm glad I did.
This is cool.  Production is on point.  Thumbs down for the bun.
Ahahaha bread scientist. Oh Roosh.
Dude you could be a chad. Why you turned into a woman ? Your soul is still a male soul just saying. I mean you look very attractive as a woman no homo. At the beginning I thought you are a woman and was wondering why women make videos about incels.   Damn you need testo my man. The gmo food is destroying us. all the soy estrogen shit. from generation after generation it effects our children. And it hit this generation very hard. So many gays out there. I mean they can be gay but this is not normal to me.   I have respect you are a human, but its sad to see that. I watched your old vids, you could easily get hot chics.   Have a great day and sorry if you feel attacked. This was not my purpose.
this is my first video of yours i’ve seen, your editing and style is incredible. love it
aha im very new here but your videos are really neat :-)
Great video.
"The Alpha Fux Beta Bux" theory made my eyebrows climb so high that for a few moments I had full head of hair again. WOW. I kind of feel bad for people who think that way. I'd visited an incel website about 10 years ago, a message board, and I hung around there for a while. Before anyone says anything (if they do), I'd never heard of the term before. Anyway, I was a virgin in my late 20s (still am... and I mean virgin, not in my late 20s), and I was looking for people to talk to hoping to deal with the emotional side of that. What I saw was angry, sad people (which I figured), but some of them were hateful towards women, so hateful, and I couldn't understand why. I remember asking "wouldn't you want to be kind to women? To learn about them as people?"   That was apparently the wrong question to ask.
I’m so happy that this video was in my recommendations
-
I use an app called Blocksite on my android phone to block those problematic websites. It makes it so you can't access various sites/apps without a password, which only my husband knows.  Never underestimate how much sites like Reddit or 4chan can warp your way of thinking. I love Reddit but if I'm not careful it just sucks my life away.
20:29  this is so......... I don't have words for that expression. I just love that sassy accent. 😂 I don't know what youtube thought while  recommending this to me but I love this a lot.
Let's be honest: these "men" are not well psychologically or emotionally. They are mentally ill. Many have anxiety disorders and have paranoid complexes and borderline disorders. This is no more a "movement" than say Schizophrenia is "lifestyle choice." These "incels" are like the female sufferers of bulimia nervosa, who hold themselves often to an impossible "feminine" standard of beauty that most super models would fail at achieving. Likewise, these males hold themselves up against a very unrealistic false model of masculinity that the most virile man with stereotypical masculine attributes would fail at achieving. It's a sad, distorted, false view of reality. That said, the MGTOW "movement" does touch on some truths, but as a whole its members are the masculine equivalent of third-wave feminists with sexist ideologies that they then project on all women. It's stupid and ultimately self-defeating for the individual man let alone men and women of society. Most men are like most women: they want to be loved—and want to love. Like women, they want to enjoy their expression of their gender and be in genuine emotionally-invested relationships. For women to be surprised of this speaks of their naive understanding of men; and for men to deny this speak of their immature development or resentful need for this human condition. And however real and not to be ignored gender difference are at the end of the day, they are negligible and moot points in the consideration of want of love and companionship. We need to have compassion for these young men that think and feel this way and call it what it is: an illness of mind and spirit.
Are you a man?
The sentence of the millennium. @20:49
Yes !! Great video & I'm really happy to hear about the concept of masochism epistemology because it makes a lot of sense. I found out about it in the first ep. of Philip K. Dick Electric Dreams ( the tv show I haven't read the novel ) and anyway, yeah, it makes a lot of sense. Sometimes truth needs to hurt because a lot of times it does, and maybe it's as irreasonable as that... Yeah I have things to think about now. But also something struck me when you talked about how you saw compliments as lies, especially about how everyone is beautiful. I'd like to say if you still feel this way...It just does become true when you start to think about what you look at differently. So yeah...It's true. It really can be but it takes some time.Yeah, I wanted to say it because I used to believe that it was ot true, because I used to think what I was thinking about people, then I realized that as long as I did not believe this to be true I didn't have to keep it so it slowly went away.
Thank you for reassuring your lesbian stans (me)
Personally matters much more than looks.  I mean 95% of ppl are physical passable, if they are interesting and NICE to be around.  And 'getting laid' is more about effort and the standards you keep, then anything else.  So just try not being a huge dick?
And with that, I'm subscribing
I want to eat her cock
funny how most incels think that average women can orgasm just from having a dick sticked inside them
My first video and I am HOOKED. The aesthetic, the voice, the mild temperament. All of it. Here for it. Living for it. Dying for it. Subscribed for it.
This was an insanely interesting and insightful. This content is what i come here for. Interesting stories and thoughts and opinions on subjects that need constructive attention. And ur ability to understand and explain was incredible. 👏🏾👏🏾👏🏾 ....and ur really fucking funny!
Just discovered your channel... watched 10' of the video... already love you! 😄
Beautiful as always... I cannot understand this, no one is promised, guaranteed or owed anything in life. You have to work. Plain and Simple.
this is amazing and you are beautiful, you've just gained a new subscriber :)
You gotta give credit to youtube recommendations when it's due. One of your vids just popped on on mine. I took a deep dive into your channel and about 6 videos later I have to say: amazing videos and glorious editing. Thank you for making my sunday. Subscribed!
Huh, I didn't realize people still put stock in phrenology.  I guess you could call them... ( ••) ( ••)>⌐■-■ real boneheads. (⌐■_■) YYYYYYEEEEEEEAAAAAHHHHHHH  Great video!  You have an excellent sense of humor.
State mandated gfs is just coochie communism
I wonder if anyone ever tried posting pictures of ciswomen on /lgbt/ and pretending that's a transwoman and seeing if they do the same thing
I really wish you would put timestamps in the description for when the different segments start. I'm trying to link somebody to a specific part of the video
I really wish you would put timestamps in the description for when the different segments start. I'm trying to link somebody to a specific part of the video
Wow, this is good.
I've got a friend who's fascinated by incel culture. I'm not sure why, it just infuriates me, but I think she'd get a kick outta this vid
Ex anti-sjw here,great work contra,can you make a video about the battlefield fiasco,people are flipping their shit about portrayal of female resistance fighters and claiming it’s about “historical accuracy”
Dear Natalie,  I loved this video.  Keep up the incredible work and thank you for exploring the difficult and frankly traumatizing word of the far right to bring us ideas on how to interact constructively.  I would love to see your thoughts on the overall trends and cultural developments have led to the kind of alienation and self harm you observe in the incel forums.  Do you believe that we are in a distinctly alienated time?  A sort of hyper-exaggerated version of Giacometti's vision of modern humans?  Or is the alienation in our society reasonably static, but our perspective of it changed?  Or perhaps neither and we are simply focused on the now and ignoring the continuity with the past?  Thanks again,  Your fan.
Inviting incels to hate-watch this is a public service. Natalie IS a gorgeous goddess and I know the "hon" explanation is illustrative, not fishing for compliments. It doesn't need to be said that Natalie's piano-playing wrists are v elegant.  Debating incel points or "solving" incel problems is condescending and counterproductive. It's not going to treat the underlying alienation that criticism of unfettered capitalism might. Jordan Peterson's "enforced monogamy" might as well be anon's "Put dog brains in a clone femoid underclass." https://www.reddit.com/r/IncelTears/comments/8e5utc/dog_brains  Misogyny looks like the other side of the male gaze coin. If women expect to be looked at and we misunderstand the "performative gender" argument, that's women lying! Why should we trust them?!   Engaging with and deflating this ideology is effin grant-worthy.
I love how you look at their community, most people would laugh at it and call them all sorts of things but you try and look through their eyes. Its informative and still entertaining. Plus your lighting is awesome
Human beings, we get lonely, we get bitter. It hurts to be alone and to give up hope of ever having somebody even just to talk to. Human beings, we want those bad feelings to come from somewhere, something we can understand and combat. We make our own enemies, we make people into our enemies and those people vilify us because they did nothing wrong but we hate them anyway. We're human beings, we want to listen when people say we're right and we want to run when somebody tells us we're wrong. The more bitter we become the less likeable we are, so we're more lonely and more bitter; it's a spiral that keeps going down untill it reaches all the way to where your spirit used to be and suddenly you don't even care. I think that could be the issue.
why don't you just go outside
Long post:  It's not their involuntary celibacy that makes them toxic people and you can bet they would abuse any woman they got with.  These men advocate for FGM and the forced sexual enslavement of women.  They do not deserve to be anywhere near a woman and the fact that they go around killing people (mostly women) as some sort of revenge is basically turned into a hostage situation when someone so much as implies that them finding a partner would make them better.  The fact that they talk about all the suicide stuff while complaining about women not sleeping with them is a red flag, implying the women are the reason for their suicide.  Surely you can't be so lacking in foresight and common sense that you wouldn't expect emotional blackmail through suicide threats, especially come breakup time if their partner has any sense?  Listen, there are so many people, many of whom are women but surely including a few men as well, who are sexually frustrated and you don't see them creating a community dedicated to dehumanizing those who won't have sex with them or mass advocating for anyone else to be mutilated or enslaved.  So no, they don't deserve your pity and you're sending a bad message when you sympathize with this vile subculture of men, as opposed to people who actually seek community support for their frustration.  That said, I did find your bit about digital self-harm to be interesting.  Online positivity culture, such as 'hon' (so that's where that shit's from...) culture, for example, is insincere to the point of gaslighting and the trans community has way too much of that.  I felt that with my high-pitched little boy voice, large breasts, and feminine eye shape, people were only referring to me as a man out of some kind of obligation or fear and not because they actually recognized me as one.  Of course the truth is going to be a breath of fresh air compared to that, but finally being able to say, "Fuck it!" and refusing to conform to any form of gender was truly a weight off my shoulders.  Maybe Mr. Bread Scientist wouldn't have been such an insecure, horrible, rapey piece of shit if he weren't so dedicated to masculinity.  As for any analogous experience with digital self-harm, when I was more dysphoric I would often find myself looking up material that confirmed my biological inferiority as someone who is female.  Never, by the way, not even when I was explicitly looking for it, did I find anything that contradicted my conviction that female bodies are biologically inferior, so this made me even more hopeless and dysphoric.  Nobody could prove me wrong, either.
Okay. Never going to use hon again, holyyyyyy shit.
The manosphere exists because rock and roll is dead!!!! GENIUS!!!!
It is interesting to note that within the Greek underworld they have a special area for those who have wasted their lives on lost loves called the Mourning Fields and many an Incel in all honesty dwells in these fields
Wow thanks for venturing into the depth of the internet so that we don't have to, this vid was eye opening. ALSO girl you're gorgeous im fucking shookd, my day has been blessed <3
Damn, 4chan was a dark hole of shit back in the day and its even worse I guess.
as if this femoid could ever understand what it's like to never get laid
Congrats on 200k subs! It's a travesty that you're not at 1 mil while incel twats like prison paul put out the same tired low-production content and pull in reliable infowars views
i love youu omg
I am getting fucking tired of hearing incel this and incel that on youtube but probably it just an American thing as they like to come out with weird shit for the world.
They hypergamy thing makes so little sense... It's like they've never met real people and get all their information from celebrity news.
This was so, so on point. Thank you!
I'll  never understand these dudes. I'm below the bell curve short, and overweight and I'll freely admit Im not the most handsome dude. But I've had a number of relationships with beautiful women by....... being a gentleman! Treat women with respect and your equals, give her roses, and be a romantic, fellas its not hard to do. And then to keep her , CONTINUE to treat her as an equal and a friend. Ask your mother if your not sure! !!!
This was very informative, fun and engaging. I loved it! I clicked on a link on Twitter thinking I'll just watch for a few seconds. But the humor, the cinematography, the music and of course the information made me stay through the whole thing.
this is the most detailed, artistic, in-depth examination of incel culture and mentality that i have ever seen on the internet. you managed to so fully explain so many aspects of the psychology of incels in only half an hour, i have so much respect for the hours upon hours of research you so obviously put into this video and am definitely going to check out more of your content after this. so much effort and patience to make a video as long and detailed as this is beyond incredible, thank u so much for making this video
do asmr
This is the actual dumbest shit I've ever heard in my entire life lmaaaao
I would have thought that we, as a society, would have long since given up on using phrenology to discriminate between people. Guess I'm wrong. Also, am I the only one who things "Femoid" sounds like some half assed monster from a 50s shlock flick?
Probably the best detailed and fair case I've seen given to the incel topic. I remember the first incel I came across. Thought it was a depressed anomaly.
Your voice is literally the most soothing thing I've ever heard in my life
Breadcel
Now, even if I disagree with you on politics and on how - lets call it - the "dating system" works you think differentiated and are undeniably funny. I always seem to learn something valuable about the american left watching your videos. Here is my sub. (Wich feels weird because looking through the comments I never seem to find anybody who isn't either blindly agreeing with or hating on you, so I don't feel like being able to be part of your community) Anyway, keep it up!
These guys need masturbation and some deathcore music. That shit takes those bad thoughts out of my system every time.
hey im v drujnk and don'rt let my lack of sobriety discourage u but il ur videos
I’d love to see this in podcast form
I don't think their claims about physical attractiveness are unsubstantiated. A lot of these guys are average looking as you've said, but the other issue is that personality isn't and end-all be-all for women. There are a multitude of factors in play in regards to relationship dynamics, and physical attractiveness is a primary interest motive. If you ask me, personality and interests are secondary factors that maintain the relationship and contribute to compatibility. The suggestion is also that these men have to look like renaissance sculptures to be attractive. It's an absolute exaggeration of what is typically considered an attractive male. It's also an indicator that such men are reliant on the satisfaction of psychosexual factors which are typically secondary to personal achievements of success. A relationship is not a primary mode of living. It's a benefit. This strange obsession with women is also even more concerning. It suggests something like a Freudian complex or a fractured sense of self.
"The manosphere exists cause rock and roll is dead" is the "cellar door" of the internet age
Just found your channel, you're awesome!
This is pure genius.  I hope you make a go of this.
this is the first video of yours i've ever seen and i just wanna say, you've got a really cool vibe going on here. the laid back, calm way you speak and the clear amount of research you put into all this is eminently watchable.
the funny thing about that whole "hypergamy" thing is i feel like, and this is purely anecdotal of course, i see waaaay more girls "settling" in the looks department than i do guys.
Omg I didn't realize she was trans till she said was   ......she looks beautiful  ❤️❤️❤️❤️❤️❤️❤️❤️❤️❤️
Jesus Christ I didnt know human beings could be so beautiful, you're like a mythical being!
i couldn't tell u were trans until you told me and usually i can kind of spot it so dw about your bone structure my lady i think you look very feminine and nice. also excellent video thank
I'm sorry for saying this but you are downright attractive.   Even the theme of elegance and the style look for this video is perfect. The voice over is perfect. I normally see people explain with animation or just talking in a camera. Which is perfectly fine. But this is a change for me by how one is acting to be in a different world and observing from the outside. I look forward to more videos soon!
The radio silence thing is absolutely true, and it can feel awful sometimes. Hell, I don't drink, so I'm not even sure what kind of social situations I could get in to meet women.   Obviously incels are horrible and toxic, but I feel like my experiences could have easily led me down that path. In this connected world, we're all just as, if not more, lonely.
i'm glad you mention digital self harm because i think it's something that just about everyone is at risk for and that is far too easy to seek out without anyone really warning you or affirming your negative experiences with it. there are times i decide to see what focus on the family is saying about something, or revisiting my homophobic memories, or listening to that sermon concerning the same sex marriage supreme court decision for the fiftieth time because there's something about reveling in what hurts you. it should be universally decried, even for people "we" (idk, leftists and LGBT people and feminists??) may not sympathize very much with.
I wish i found you sooner, your vids are perf and your voice is so nice and calming i luv u
Ok I self identify as an incel, I also have taken the black pill. Yes, I know the social implications of saying this and no I don't really have any hatred towards women at all, I find them more to be mysterious creatures who are so complicated and totally divorced from me that I approaching and understanding one is almost impossible. Having said that I look at the ten steps you listed for the black pill and feel eight of them except for numbers six and seven, those two go into the subject of feminism that I want to avoid like the plague.
You look very Victorian.
I've always found it ironic that they use the term red pill, taken directly from the Matrix, a film by two trans women. Like how much more could they get the message wrong?
I knew it was a tranny before I hit play
Oh my god I think I've fallen in  love with you.
"...I'm still attracted to women and those that lieth betwixt. Cats. The inherent eroticism of the sea...."  Aaaand subcribed
Now that I know you're bi I can tell you I think you're pretty you are without feeling like I'm fetishizing you. LOL
I love your videos so much. Keep up the good work, you're amazing. ❤️❤️
Thank you so much for this!!!!
I wish I was brave like you and escape my inceldon by becoming a tranny.
This comment section is weirder than that of a tranny porn video.... dont ask
This is the first video of yours that I watched and I had no idea you were trans until you mentioned it, you're truly beautiful. I hope you don't take offense to that, I didn't mean any.
this is 100% a mans voice ROFL   it's literally just a guy talking softly
LOL They even stole their names from a woman. I can't breathe.😂
I just found you and I love you already, let’s be friends. Subscribed!
Don't know if it will help any transwomen, but there ARE women with big heads. Take it from me the cislady who gets really mad at the lack of cute hats that fit.
https://youtu.be/u7oG_gZ6p3o
I really liked this video.
can we talk about the fact that Olly speaking with an american accent at 7:25 somehow sounds exactly like The Amazing Atheist? and how terrifying that is
Masochistic epistemology - there's a C.S. Lewis quote that goes with this: "...there is fear-fulfilment as well as wish-fulfilment, and hypochondriac temperaments will always tend to think true what they most wish to be false."
"Chads with fuckable skulls" is not something I ever needed to hear
Dear ContraPoints, what are your Opinions on Veganism? You obviously are not one, but i would love to see you Analysing the Power Structures behind Slaughterhouses and the Relationship between Humans and Animals. Maybe explain what is meant by the term "Carnism". Lots of good quality content to be had there.
Instantly subscribed, love a research temptress! Good job, girl! You kept me curious or giggling at the little jokes. Btw, would love to be half as femenine as you, brutally honest, love your shirt and nails and how self assured you seem. Keep up the great work!! Xx
I'm not joking or making fun; I'm serious. If any incels are watching the video and reading this: sex is over-rated. I know that sounds glib, for various reasons, but it's true. Watch Tod Browning's Freaks; listen to The Smiths/The Smiths (first album); read The Temple of the Golden Pavilion by Mishima Yukio; study Neoplatonic metaphysics. All this - the hell we're going through - is just shadows on the wall of the cave. There are other worlds.
I think i got off on the wrong exit... gonna grab some fast food then get back on the regular youtube
I have very deep sympathy for those that follow the black pill ideology, as it seems like a very easy hole to go down once you're stuck in that position of isolation. On the other hand and more significantly though, the large majority of incel ideology is grounded in simple misogyny.  Incel fundamentally is very, very sad. It's men who've spent their entire life being rejected and living in isolation, but instead of using that to push themselves forward and prosper like most in the position do, they use it as an excuse to hate women and the world they were born into.  This is a really good video.
you seem really neat
never seen a video of yours in my life, but seeing all the soul leave your body while trying to calmly explain these pieces of garbage is just so damn relatable. bless your soul, god knows when trying to deal with people like incels on the internet, we need all the blessings we can get.
There nothing wrong with your face. You are beautiful.
LMAO, this shit is hilarious. Just when I thought society couldn't go any further into the gutter ... I somehow stumbled across this. Thanks to everyone who brought this little bit of cancer to our planet. Cheers!
Incels are honestly pathetic, who creates their identity around being unable to "get laid."
giada on food network has a big ol head.
I think we've accidentally turned men into women. Neuroticizing about your romantic prospects? Body-image issues that lead to self-harm? Incredible self-loathing and resentment towards society? Oh god, these poor boys. Maybe they need Maybelline.
For anyone seeking to understand people, it's important to look at the good, but also the bad.  This is an excellently done video. It's like gazing into an abyss. A sea of despair. Does that sound dramatic? This whole situation is rather dramatic, so I think it fits. I knew of Incels and what their major malfunction was, and it turns out I wasn't wrong, but the extent. The extreme level. The beliefs, the way they talk, suicidal worship, I just can't believe it. There is a part of my human soul and civilized instincts that insist that a real, actual group of fellow human beings surely cannot be like this.  Only straw men constructs of a position and Saturday morning cartoon villains are ever that evil.  But they are.  It's *that* nuts.  I always saw the Chad and Virgin image and thought, if it was ever a real thing and not some mockery, it was just people saying 'we're Chads and great'. I had no clue that it was really a self-loathing hate-ideology trying to explain their own 'inferiority' and lack of success, how they feel they're doomed, despair for the future. It hurts because I see some of myself in there. The lack of hope for the future. But the way they turn that kind of dread or despair or rejection into some kind of Eternal Law instead of, you know, how things just worked out is obscene.  And how they 'cope' with those feelings by hurting their fellow human beings, with hateful ideology no more legitimate or reasonable than Jew hating or garden-variety racism or sexism or any of that, is intolerable. That's where they cross from pitiful creatures to dangerous things.  It's like I'm looking at the actual, real life version of the Despair ideology from Danganronpa.  Except adherents to it, while self-destructive, violent, bad people, didn't feel obligated to be miserable. Hell, you get the impression they quite enjoy all the fucked up stuff, and find happiness in it.  *This is madness.*   Whatever perspective can be brought to this, or shades, or details, that is the truth at the core of this whole subject. The whole Incel thing is fucking insanity. It's anathema to humanity.  It is also, thankfully, a very, very, very small group, compared to everyone everywhere. And with an ideology like that, hateful tactics and self-loathing, it's not likely to change anytime soon. At least there's some mercy in that.  Also, by the way, you're a better person imo than your opposition, because you actually go out of your way to understand their position, give them credit where it seems due, etc. As it goes, 'when the Left wants to understand the Right, they see what the Right is saying. When the Right wants to understand the Left, they see what the Right is saying'.  Also x2, about the 'infection' thing, about going into these horrible spaces and being changed by them, gazing into that abyss as it gazes into you, I know that feeling well. I am a big nerd, I go into spaces like pro wrestling fandom, anime, video games, fictional stuff, and holy fucking shit, is there a prevalent, well. There's a lot of prevalent things there. And even though I do not agree with the Right about nearly anything, just seeing so many times people disgusted by the idea of feminism, or annoyed with bringing up Oppression, started to make me resonate and have the same reactions on an emotional level. I am annoyed by fellow liberals, despite completely being in agreement with what they actually say. Or at least, that's a reaction I have occasionally.  And it's fucking horrible. I want this perspective out of my brain, I want to scrub it clean of this 'feminists are taking over muh video games' shit. I guess the first step is recognizing there's a problem.
Plz do a makeup tutorial
I think they are closet gays
I only just found this channel today and this is the first video I watched, but I think I'm in love with you and your content. Also all the light/color changes made me giggle.
Wow. Your just amazing. Everything . for real. Thank you
This just keeps getting better and better
I can here expecting a video analyzing incels. What I found was a video analyzing incels and also the video is art. Subscribed.
I don't know how to classify your look in this video-- "70s psychic chic"? idk, but it is totally amazing
This is fucking art!
Can you do a stage lighting tutorial please?!
You are so flawless (not the point I know but you just are) and your video was amazing, thank you for making it.
This is brilliant.
Where have you been all my life.
This video was so well researched and put together and made vocalised so many of my thoughts on this subject. Subbed!
This is beyond trash.
Hahaha *🅱️ONES*
Oh damn the ending was so dramatatic compared to what I expected. Also I'm subscribed now. ❤️
So they see women as horrible selfish people, and yet really want one. THAT MAKES SENSE.
Considering I once cried because my hands are too small, I'm grateful I'm a trans guy and not a cis guy, because I could have ended up as an incel.
you are a gorgeous goddess tho
I don't know if I'm in love with you or if I want to be you.
When the fuck is some deep-pocket production company gonna pick you up?  We need this shit at least weekly Natalie.
If they believe women are so shallow and love doesn't exist and it's all about physical appearance, why are they even mad about not being part of that? Lol. The way they view women... No wonder women don't want to be near them. They should be happy with that because again, the way they view women.
Asmr moments were DEVINE
I love your style
By far the best way to speak of incels
I survived that introduction, apparently. Am I a veteran?
28:06 provided a brief moment of levity in this heavy video. I really enjoy the reaction when it comes back to the skull.  Also you are a gorgeous goddess.
This was a really interesting video, very informative. I hope you feel better. I used to hurt myself by spending hours staring at skinny and very sick women. I was hurting myself, trying to make myself sicker, as sick as they were. It was awful, and I was absolutely miserable. Eventually I was hospitalised and a decade of therapy later, I'm still sad, but doing much better. I'm really grateful for this video, thank you 😊
I am so glad that this video kept coming up in my recommendations. I have now watched about 5 hours worth of your vids (so like 5 vids lol but I'll get to more I swear) and the way in which you present ideas and points is so refreshing: your opinions are backed up well, and based on points that are built up and explained throughout. You present the subject in an incredibly thorough way, and the level of research and work put into it is clear. I think you're gonna be the first YTer I ever donate to on Patreon (I'm poor af and usually just hope that my fav yters get enough from other ppl), just because of how blown away by the levels of work put into these videos. <3
can't necessarily agree on the firing squad. there comes a point where you've talked to so many, you feel like a shitty person. it doesn't feel that great, and i've generally given up on online dating altogether
👀
"volcels if you wouldn't" rofl
How many phones has been harmed in this channel at this point?
I'm loving the bisexual lighting ;)
I feel really bad for the poor soul who had to read these disgusting messages in dramatic reading. My heart goes out to you, whomever you are.
Hey, my Dad put a Strat in my hand in 1985 I turned into a commie feminist! Thanks for the video. I put off watching it, because INCELS were only interesting from a DSM-5 perspective. But it's a pleasant Saturday morning so why not fuck it up with some creepy creeps? Being a misanthrope that engulfs themselves in schadenfreude isn't necessarily interesting, but the whole language is a virus aspect of their forums is like a William S Burroughs novel with a backdrop of the psychosis caused by capitalist realism! If the Money Pig is the ultimate Consumer then the InCel is the ultimate Reactionary.
“I’m ultra masculine, as you can see.”  🤣🤣🤣🤣🤣🤣🤣🤣🤣
So.. your stance, and it seems reasonable, is that individuals who subscribe to a Incel mindset are locked into a self feeding depression cycle that ends in personal entropy? Or do I need to re-watch this for a better take away?
Oh why oh why did you have to drag Mendelssohn in this sh*t XD
I had that issue with a lot of things, like art (I almost quit it a couple of times throughout my life because of my slow progress.) my weight (I had asthma and family kept telling me that I'll die if I worked out) people's opinions (you're too nice, you're too silent, you're too mean, you're too disturbed, you're too bla bla bla) but eventually I got sick of that shit and I worked my ass off to change all of that. I dedicated the entirety of my university years (4 years +) to develop myself and my personality, it took a lot of hard work and effort but here I am, a billion times better than what I once was.  The thing is with these retards, they keep putting up barriers and bring themselves down with warped logic so that they don't have to do all of the hard work. Sorta like the people from the fat acceptance movement, they basically just come up with elaborate excuses so that they can stay in their comfort zones and play victim.
medieval bakers didn't have this insecurity over their work, why do middle class american men?
it's funny how incel dudes claim that ALL women can get laid whenever they want, despite the fact that the term was started by a female incel, and even a BI female at that (who should theoretically have even more options to get laid, amiright?) As if women are never rejected for not being attractive enough, are never ignored because other more attractive women are around. They seem to think women are more visual than men are and value looks above all, despite all evidence to the contrary.
As a fellow baltimorean the fact that "hon" has a negative connotation among trans women comes full circle with the "hon" caricature. I will forever cringe from now on when I see a hon bumper sticker. Innocence lost.
masochistic epistemology. Ive been there. as a gay man. my solution has been to work on asceticism. I really appreciated seeing the term VOLCEL in this. I came up with that term a while ago to explain my trajectory, and im glad to see it exists independently of me. meditation is awesome!
If being part of a bubble leads to catastrophic digital self-harm, couldn't the same be said of any hugbox?
Insecurities always manifest through the internet by ppl looking for shit that will make them feel worse; for me it was my weight at some point. I wasn't in shape but I was a long way from being fat; however that made me feel very unsexy and I continuously browsed /fa/, which of course was entirely masochistic and only made me feel worse. That could've led to an eating disorder if I hadn't stopped browsing. Growing up on 4chan I kind of feel for the incels (which in my time were the robots of /r9k/) but it's also frustrating knowing that there's no way you can talk them out of their bs.
Wow.  Informative, entertaining, honest.  I was brought here for the first time by Facebook.  Who knew it was still useful?
Okay, this is epic.
I may not be a fan of the majority of your content, but I most certainly enjoyed every minute of this video. I do hope that one day people will listen to good advice like this. Far too many lonely shut ins blaming being single on every other factor but them not seeking enough exposure(not saying this to trivialize when people have it easier for superficial reasons). No matter who you are if you find a forum, a club (talking about activities you enjoy) or any other place you are comfortable in that has people that possibly share interests (or not since not all couples find love based on liking the same things) you will eventually find someone you click with. And that should be a no-brainer, but sadly people can't be as rational as they would wish to be and even the seemingly confident people can have times when they feel worthless and unlovable.
Lol that voice, my fucking sides.  You still need more estrogen, dude. It's still obvious.
"man like scientific things" nothing has sounded more corny in my entire fucking life!  But more importantly, do incels realize that there is a community of women who are celibate for one reasons or another, and instead of being huge "pussies" and acting like "dicks", they start a career, have a pet, get a vibrator or be....uhm! "resourceful". And if need to be, adopt or visit a sperm bank! instead of red or black pill, they need a chill pill !
Your voice isn't that bad. Maybe not the best for first impressions but I stopped noticing within a few minutes, and you're the first trans person I've ever seen or heard (as far as I know). Forget about it.
Incels = People that think the Universe owes them sex.  I myself am 27 and haven't gotten laid yet, heck I haven't even got my first kiss, you don't see me complaining about it.
Prostitution solves incelastion
i cant believe this video was 35 minutes, it felt so much shorter
ContraPoints ASMR when?
Hey i don't want to hurt anyone feelings but my first response when you told me that you were trans was that i didn't notice. I thought you were a woman when i watched this. I tought you look really cool
*Sees the wrist thing*  Is... is this what a cis dude experiencing dysphoria looks like?
4:44 isn't that second drawing from weird deviantart fetish art?
4:44 isn't that second drawing from weird deviantart fetish art?
*f e m o i d s*
do a video on Varg vikernes PLEASE
How dare you say that Rock'n'Roll is dead. I am offended.
I was going to put out a video myself based on my research and the fact that I managed to successfully infiltrate an incel discord but you did it a lot better than I could <3 Good vid!
first video i am watching of yours and I must say your intro certainly stands out
There is something really wrong with the internet. I have heard we are only really wired for communities of like 150 people. Maybe a better social media app would help you find the right 150 people. This whole mess could transform almost over night (ok, over a year) with one cute idea in how we can filter an internet of a billion voices into something our brain is designed to process.. .. but this clips shows that full freedom to choose that 150 people for yourself apparently would not be the answer. Interesting problem.  I hope someone solves one day.
Hahahaha omg I just discovered your channel and I LOVE YOU QUEEN
Why are transwomen always prettier than cis women? Like, good shit your face is great. I'd kill for cheekbones like yours. Also, I've never seen one of your videos before and until you brought it up, I thought you were just another woman.
Just found your channel and I pretty much lost it at 'firing squad of dick'. I'm somewhere between one who lies betwixt/eroticism of the ocean and I am sometimes pretty glad that I'm not in the dating game by my own sexuality being 'nah'. Nonetheless have been asked about my genitals more than once.
best thing I have seen in ages! love you!
Awesome!
I clicked subscribe the moment you showed the video of the sea and said "mmh, yeah.. don't you just wanna get in there? Take me mommy!" 😂
there is a joke here about early 2000's music and the name Stacy being chosen as the Epitome of Sexy, but that's such a low-hanging fruit, I don't even want it.
The one thing I was not expecting from this video was to wind up sexually attracted to the sea, but here we are.
I think very lonely people may seek out self-loathing affirming criticism partly because people typically don't receive negative feedback except from people who know them very well, so it feels more like a human connection than praise does. Critical seems more honest, but it also feels more intimate. It's socially acceptable to praise people you don't know very well, and if you don't feel like you have a satisfying amount of human connection in your life, it can be seriously addictive to be provided with a community that gives you feelings of intimacy. This will increase the pressure to fit in with this community, so its members are going to be very likely to accept the ideas that seem to be a consensus without question.
Thank you :)
you always have this tone, mocking evey subject you decide to touch upon, as if youre higher than anyone else. why? just cause youre a guy with a wig?
This is the most comprehensive and compassionate video I have seen addressing the Incel community. I truly believe people will be saved from watching this.
You are amazing. This was wonderfully insightful. Thank you for making your videos.
so glad i've come upon your channel!! muchluvxxxx
You are wonderful! Thank you.
I feel like the main theme here is:  “Love Yourself”  Please love yourself.
Yeah I probably should leave r9k
Hold up. I downloaded this video for a road trip. I pulled over in a rest stop to type this. I saw you on Lindsay's Vid, and gave your channel a gander. Didnt seem much up my alley, but i have been hearing the usuall internet hubub about these incels. Saw this vid, that it was long, and figured if you were a friend of Lindsay id give you a fair shake. And i gotta say, you are amazing. This video is thoughtful, humorous, researched, and presented in a way that encourages a mind to be open, not to close down. I wish i could make content at this level, and i wish more content creators took the time to deliver a quality and non hate filled look at something that is obscured in misinformation and heated emotion. I legitimately feel enlightened after listening to this. Subscribed.
This is the first video I’ve watched of yours and I’m super subbed, u r great
Oh my god, Adachi is an incel.
First time watching.  Had no idea you were transitioning until you said it.
You can call on Tyrone
Nigga just watch some ams
I'm getting the same problem with the "incel" content, my brain just acts in their language, I need help, cause' I've been a "normie" since always, but that shit's rotting my thinking.
What the heck is this
Incels believe in the blackpill, not the redpill
Ok but you are ACTUALLY fucking stunningly gorgeous. And your style is to die for. But more importantly, you're a compassionate, intelligent, and self-reflected woman. Also, I too am a gorgeous (cis) woman and yes, I have a big damn head. WE EXIST. It's fine!!
I've spent some time on incel forums just out of curiosity and I can confidently say that they're really depressing places. These are hurt lonely men who are convincing each other that love is impossible and that they'll never be happy. It's seriously fucked.
you are absolutely lovely!
Whatever hurts feels true. But that isn't a good reason to accept that it is.  That's good. Adding it to my toolkit.
Great video. I just want to say, I admire your work, and I admire you for putting yourself out there creatively (and to a large extent, personally). The internet can be a ruthless, brutal place, and you jumped right in to the thick of it. Keep up the good work, please! :)
So is being an incel a response to a society that favors women as selectors?  Most of the vocabulary and talking points of incels seem to be defensive in nature to help cope with this reality.
Terrific as usual. I know the end is semi-ironic, but I got goosebumps anyway. Sex and romance are of course important, but there’s so much other beauty in the world.
Just stumbled upon this video and DAMN this is some A+ content
Patriarchy dictates that men must pursue women, ie write the first Tinder message, because if a woman pursues a man, she's either a dominant bitch or a desperate whore. If men don't like having to make the first move, or feeling obligated to pay for dinner (because they statistically make more money than women), then they actually need to get into feminism, not all this redpill/incel crap that upholds and perpetuates patriarchal values.
Well. It seems a little superficial but, now that she recognizes herself as a trans woman i can truly appreciate her content. I mean, we all had that fase when we thought that were more than two genders, and I can really see how she i so fucking inteligent.  Ps: the photography is such eyegarsm
I'm happy this video exists in a way I couldn't describe even if I was sober. Thank you for doing the work you do. It means a lot.
Fucking currcels
Did ContraPoints use to be a man ?
"When they're gabbing on the cell phone about Paris Hilton." Do these chucklefucks live in a time warp? Paris Hilton hasn't been relevant in over a decade.
Lmao that first one is basically a glorious shitpost
Jesus Christ, you would be the best drinking buddy on the face of the earth -also this channel is quite literally crack.
Aww my GF is ever so worried about her brow rigid, It's not nearly as pronounced as she thinks. My wrists my are  small, i´m 5´2, i´m very much neuroatypical, i am attracted to the uses of alcohol. None of these impede me on finding a gorgeous loving partner like I have found. And yes, Eliot Rodger was perfectly bangable. Very hot.
Hey, incels, most of us love sex toys, familiarise with themselves yourselves Hey again, Nat. What´s the progress with David Rubin? OMG I´m a makeup artist and a guy and, yes, to that Benefit preference.
I feel like so many of these points could be applied to any dogmatic ideology, right and left. Really great video! If only people could just humble themselves and try to place themselves in other's shoes 😐
all capricorns
What a sensual little Philosopher you are. The more intelligent and thought provoking your discourse is, the hotter you become. Whew! Well I need a rainshower!
17:56 had me dying
Honestly I'm so goddamn happy I found your channel, you're one of the few channels on this hellish website that doesn't make me uncomfortable. Love ya!
Cause Beauty is in millimeters
Best channel ever. Subscribed!
A: you are one of the most beautiful women I’ve ever seen B: you are one of the most intelligent and well-spoken YouTubers I’ve watched  Thanks for a great video
the hatereading stuff makes sense though cause it validates your fears and tells ur irrational anxiety brain that it isn't irrational.... but that doesn't mean it's right
If I didn't speak english I would listen to this to relax. The soft voice and the piano music sound beautiful but the subject is so frustrating.
"hello boys. let's talk about bone structure" i'm am leebian?
I can't believe incels are really a thing. I thought it was a fake movement. Is it a NA based   group? I live in Europe and have never met any guys like that.
You should do a vid where LSR guest stars.
You're bueatiful!
Incels like you and the lgbt community are the result of late stage capitalism. It was conceived when neoliberalism started. This is the only logical conclusion of pushing women's rights lgbt and capitalism
I didn't get hard to the beginning  that's how i know i'm gay
philosophy tube guy's american voice is pretty amazing
Can one chose to be involuntary in regards to something others chose do to them? There's a snag somewhere in there...
Not particularly relevant, but I watched the World of Warcraft animation about Azshara today, and I'm convinced ContraPoints is actually Queen Azshara trying to convince us to follow the old lovecraftian god N'zoth into the deep blue.
Fuck you bitch
I totally understand what you mean by picking up the lingo of a group and then having natural thoughts that would come from that group (like what you mentioned/joked wrt briefly thinking "that Chad is totally heighblocking").  'Cuz even when it's not fuelled by some small reality turned into a catastrophe in my mind, I've found myself reading through nasty blogs and such, to Learn About The People (similar to what you've done here), and found myself totally starting to think their core beliefs about myself, automatically.  Ex; I used to read through pro-ana/pro-mia/thinspo etc., blogs so that I could help people coming to me for advice on how to accept themselves for their current weight.    I thought it would help me understand their headspace, and then help me deconstruct that for them instead of just giving them the usual body positive quotes, because while those quotes are often true, they don't feel honest to many people with eating disorders.    I'm thin, and I've been thin for most of my life, and my weight has never, ever concerned me, but after obsessively reading through these blogs (they became an addiction), I started to think I was objectively fat without a thigh gap, I started to think that it was good when I wasn't eating (when I'd have a cig instead), and good that my meds take away my appetite.  I never got to the point where I ever thought this stuff about other people's bodies and lifestyles, but I can imagine how, if I'd stayed on those blogs, they could have permeated my consciousness enough to really fuck me right up and turn me into a monster, as you said here in the part about TTTT.    These ways of thinking and these online cults seem like they'd be obviously wrong and obviously easy to not think in line with, partly because they're so absurd-sounding to an outsider or someone without those insecurities.  But they are still, somehow, alluring.  Regardless of personal reality.  So these sorts of groups -- incels right at the top there -- can convince people that they're unlovable simply by existing and being accessible with the  click of a cursor.  For people who already have these insecurities, these sites/groups are an utter, life-consuming disaster.  The block function is key.  Thank you so much for bringing it up, and for saying it (and linking it) to the people who look up to you, like myself.
Superb.
I got a dick pic from one of these guys and he said 'don't hate me' after.
So I'm new here. You are absolutely brilliant and hilarious!
Are there any girls incels?
And now, I'm weirdly turned on by the sea
That Abigail interlude is freakin’ hilarious. Natalie is so forthright about this rather soul-crushing dating stuff and bigotry, it’s great.
Your videos are good. I like them!
24:22 What the heck is a man mode?
Imagine the smell of roll on deodorant and sweat. Gentle white stains in the pits of a black t shirt. You softly whisper in her ear, "Fancy watching TNG on Netflix?"  She sinks back into the cushions on your sofa. Lips part, "oh yes...YES!"  You ask her if she wants to choose the episode. She chooses Darmok. Your breath catches in your throat, momentarily. At last you cry "Darmok and Jalad, at Tanagra!"   Your eyes meet.  She replies, "Shaka, when the walls fell."
I have watched through almost all of your videos in the last week and my brain feels like mush in the best way possible. You are articulate, intelligent, rational and respectful and have given me food for thought on more than one occasion. Although I know you likely get plenty of hate comments, I feel like when I look at the comments I see a surprising number of people saying "I don't agree with you, but I respect you." I think that is a pretty big feat in this day and age. Thanks for being so much smarter than me.
whenever I think roosh has proven himself to be the lowest and saddest human being, he finds a new sinkhole to plunge even lower
you pillared the pill poppers
DONT CUT IT OFFFFF
OMG, "Chadsplaining".
THIS CHANNEL IS GOLD!!!!! Gracias Quetzal, vengo por tu recomendación.
I swear I cringed my head off till 1:20  Also the second you started measuring that skull i had to subscribe
Wtf this is awesome. Subbed
I don't know why but the part of this which makes my skin crawl is the sea stuff!! It's just not right!!!
I just showed up to laugh at this retarded bitch.
Observing incels, MRAs, PUAs, red pillers, and members of the alt-right is like watching a car crash. You just can't look away. 🙄
So when is the skull tapping asmr video coming?
so cool
This is my first ContaPoints video and... down the rabbit hole
“INCELS exist because Rock & Roll is dead.” Pretty much sums up 2018. Perfect quote, thank you.
Wow! I learned a lot. Never heard of any of those terms before. Thank you for sharing your insights. I think you have a beautiful mind, as well as physical beauty.
This was amazing
As a penance for cooking food for myself, like some sort of a woman, I'll add another two inches to my beard.
Bring rock and roll back we gotta help them
My god, that ending... I am... intrigued...
I landed here after reading the article published on The Verge on 2018-08-24. Wow. What a video essay. Impressively thorough. The "black pill" is certainly one of the best characterizations of dogmatic, doomsday extremist thinking I've heard.
I’m about to binge this whole channel
I keep seeing this in my feed. Fuck it. Might as well watch as I have know idea who you are and what you do.  Edit: this video is gold
That whole “just the tip” bit is so real
I AM THE MOST MASCULINE OF ALL BAKERS!
I love your costumes
Boyfriend and I just spent 5 minutes dying because of sacred passages. This was amazing. going to share it everywhere.
You're not a hon because of your skull you're a hon because you had to read Ways of Seeing a billion times in order to try to imagine what living as a woman might feel like.
Form and Function.  We all like things that work well, and probably like them better if they are pretty.  But if the don't work very well, they had better be pretty.
You are pretty terrific. Thank you for your great work!
Dude. I am not a regular viewer, but this is just gold. Maybe gonna have to check in more around here
This quite resonated with me. My 1st relationship ended with her cheating on me and, though there have been some close moments, I havent been able to be with another women since. The radio silence has started getting into me even though i wasnt part of the incel comunity I just felt like I was cattle and without any kind of agency. Guess it feels good to have your feelings validated.
That tendency to seek out what hurts us is so true. I'm black, and I started browsing some racist forums, just out of morbid curiosity, and a desire to see just how deep their delusions went. But eventually I started noticing the skin tone of criminals before their crime, I felt unreasonably disappointed in my own race, and I started giving credence to those bullshit statistics, it was a slippery slope. This was ridiculous, I'm black, I live with black people, I interact with black people everyday, I should know better than any racist trapped in their bubble bubble of bigotry that a black person is just like any other normal person. Whether they're smart, dumb, hardworking, lazy, kind, or shitty, it has nothing to do with race. So why was I slowly starting to think that I was somehow inferior for having more melanin? These thoughts were way unhealthy, and, fun to laugh at or not, I couldn't keep giving those racists my attention anymore.  It's funny, if a racist came across a forum bashing racists, they'd just double down on their racism, not start doubting themselves. Why is hate so much easier to nurture than confidence and optimism?
what a look  also the fucking mood lighting
FUCK THIS WAS SO GOOD YOU SLAY 🔥
Wait she is trans?
~bread scientist~
This video is a good proof that gender dysphoria is just a fiction, or at least a very rar mind condition. In fact there is such a big procent of incells among coder, weaboo and other of this sort, then many of them convert to female just for the sake of privileges and 2,000 likes on tinder.
The intro😂😂😂😂
Incels got that big Yikes™ energy Edit: *HOLY SHIT*
I didnt think i was gonna want to watch this all the way through but you kept me intrested the whole video! Youre really good at this.
Stubbled on this channel by chance. Never knew what I was missing in my life. Subbed.
after the video, i just realized i have incel friends.
LMAO!
I, too, love touching bones.
I don’t mean to be creepy but your videos  are getting so good. You don’t seem onesides and examine both sides. Your political videos are actually educational and seem legit and like you are so open minded. You are also so calming. You kinda remind me of alike a really cool hippie aunt or big sister and it’s really a lovely wise essence to have. Have a nice day!
Brilliant video. I just came across your channel and I'm steadily going through each one. You're a delight. Please never stop being you.
I use to be a incel, how I changed my situation was I had a cousin that was a pimp literally. I asked him to take me under his wing and show me the game, which he was more than happy to do. Basically find a guy who's really good with women and learn from him. I'm not a pimp I just wanted to get good enough be a player. Which I have achieved, some basic things to know. Dont be a nice guy become indifferent to women and recognize your superiority, that's something that requires practice. Not only do you have to know it, you gotta truly believe it in your heart. It makes it so you will become immune to female f**kery. When women become emotional show them utter indifference, nothing they do can break your calm. It's a state of mind you gain like Buddha gaining enlightenment. You must master yourself but also gain true understanding of the nature of women. It's a philosophy, that's just a taste of what I know.
You could bake a tray of muffins with the burning heat of insecurity radiating off of Roosh (at ~12:12).
Contra I adore your visual aesthetic but I would die if you started doing podcasts too! Your video essay format would transfer so well. <3
I feel fucking sick now.... What the hell was that intro. Also you're perfect.
Ironically, the Chad-Virgin meme started as a parody of the communities that began using it unironically, suggesting that the reason many people were unhappy was because they placed extreme value in superficial things like stride, gaze, and  b o n e   s t r u c t u r e
*I AM OUTING MYSELF AS A BAKER*
If anyone can convert incels, it’d be you Natalie. Also holy shit you almost have 200k subs! I’ll be careful not to blink so I won’t miss the moment you surpass 1M subs.
Skulls actually do matter, just not quite in terms of "metaphysical" significance. For example, larger lower jaws is a physiological indicator of testosterone exposure, and is correlated with behavioral traits associated with such exposure. Likewise, facial width to height ratio is strongly linked with politcal preference, social dominance (it's linked with social dominance in both humans and capuchin monkeys) and racism.   One of many examples:  https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0191886915005759  Also, skull size actually is a reliable predictor of IQ at around .4, based on a meta-analysis of several hundred studies of the link between IQ and intracranial volume -- that is, when controlling for sex and body size. So these things do matter to a significant degree, but not having a large lower jaw doesn't mean you can't get laid, like incels think. They're just lazy, whiny twirps.
So, I guess the concept of mutual trust and respect is just right out the window for them.
Great stuff Contra.  Love your vids.  Wish you the best.
Olly has an incredibly seductive voice
i(femoid) used to have a friend who was super charming and nice but was also heavily depressed about his dating situation and kept going on about facial structure etc. i kept telling him it was bullshit and we fell out for various reason (politics mainly). he dropped his "nice guy" pretenses once it turned out i was not in any way interested in him and we left it at that. well this video made me realise, belatedly, what kind of person i was dealing with and wish i could have helped him either way....
Paul Gauguin would have loved this group.
You know, if you didn't have a nasal voice you'd be totally fuckable.
I'd NE-VER have gotten that perspective on the matter.  and your usual nuance and smarts make me love this empathy-inducing process (watching your videos) even more. many thanks all the way from Brazil :) keep up the awesome work.
first video on this channel, was really good. thanks.
the skull measurements ASMR omfg
This is an incredible video--I never thought I could ever feel sympathy for incels, but now I do. I wish there were some way to reach them but, as you say, they cannot be reached until they are ready.
Legalise prostitution.
I came because of the incel topic. (I'm into the weird sides of the web lately. Just to prove to myself, that people are getting weirder by the hour.) I stayed because of the sea porn....
6:32   umm, nails on skull ASMR?   didn't know I needed it until now.
They call soloing Fretwanking for a reason. Fantastic video.
i was not ready. "the chad circumference" first time watcher, instant sub. how is this so perfect??
I am so happy I found this channel.  You are incredible.  ❤
I always thought that incels were people who committed incest
The bear thing I've ever watched
whens the hetero kick over ;P
This is AMAZING.
This is a really, really dark and deep rabbit hole...
Incels want a reward without hard work or effort ... Incels are communists.
I must say, the beginning is one of the strangest, creepiest things I have _ever_ seen. And I am the QUEEN OF THE DAMNED!
This is possibly the most interesting channel I've found in a very long time.
Mendelssohn brought me here.
this is my first ContraPoints video and holy shit this is a gateway drug
OMG this humor had me rolling. I was not expecting that - like way more frank than most other trans I have seen on Youtube. Glorious video and high production quality, keep it up!
Thank you. I needed to hear this.
Why do some idiots think the labia magically grows when having sex with men...but not with one man. It’s extremely ridiculous
Knew you were a dude. Dammit.
I don't know what I love more: the thoroughly researched topic, the one-liners, or this killer make up.
My life has been truly de-toxed by this video 😌👌
Imagine how is touch a woman.
Jesus this is depressing and leaves me with something of an existential crisis of character. I mean I'm a nerdy as Hell, formally obese, former cocaine and current opiate addict, who frequently removes himself from the dating/sex scene in service of working on my passion for writing, but when I'm not working I'm a sexually nihilistic bisexual who's sexual exploits range from the hedonistic to the downright degenerate.  What am I?    Also thank you for introducing the term "bread scientist" into my vocabulary.
20:48 "at least these pricks care enough about my pussy to be assholes about my dick" Nailed it! Contrapoint RULES!  33:35 The manosphere exists cuz rock n roll is dead.
There’s an interesting think piece called the adorkable misogyny of the Big Bang theory that highlights this incel way of misogyny that is discussed here, however the biggest problem with the video is that the Big Bang theory does do all the stuff that other movies, tv shows, etc do except they make sure that you know that what there doing is wrong and the only way that you would know that the video is wrong about the Big Bang theory is if you’ve actually seen the show and if you’re searching for reasons why a show is bad, then you probably haven’t watched it or have but you’ve tuned yourself out so it’s easier to hate it.
The reason incels believe women are difficult in any way is to my theory because throughout history men labored to provide for thier families. Then in modern history today women have equal rights to men and they don't take responsibility and consideration possibly for a household,  disregarding men as being of value unless there is attraction prehaps. An obese,entitled, unattractive hetrosexual female with no job, money and is uneducated can post that she's single and get thousands of hetrosexual males pursuing her as fast as a compliment can be sent but a poor, obese, unattractive hetrosexual male without a job, money and possibly uneducated and entitled or not posts he is single, in most cases gets 0 responses from any hetrosexual women. Where is the equality and keep in mind this is all theoretical to my knowledge but why are hetrosexual women not educated to pursue hetrosexual men fervently as hetrosexual men will any woman by nature? I believe by theory it's testosterone not being produced in heterosexual females from lack of physical exercise to ignite desperate attraction to unattractive hetrosexual male's. Now rather a person is hetrosexual or not shouldn't create a barrier for anyone being pursued if they desire to be, is my belief but it seems unbalanced until society becomes properly educated as a whole throughout humanity according to my theory.
Girl your honesty in this video is awesome! Subscribing!
I'm not entirely sure what life circumstances lead me to this video at 2 AM ish and now writing this comment at 230am ish.  I will say, I don't identify as an incel, though I am sexless and a straight white male. I did find the red pill, and to be honest much of the red pill is accurate enough and the idea of hidden truths is very accurate. One of the biggest takeaways I got from the red pill is, that the two sexes are different and that women don't want nice quiet guys. A fact that can very easily be observed. In general, it got me to seriously learn about the two sexes. And for that i will forever be grateful.  That said, MGTOW and the blackpill and simply using women to spin 10000 plates endlessly while decrying sluthood and feminism(though i do agree feminism today is especially toxic) as the things that are ruining the world, while yourself being a man slut is a bit of a delusional hypocritical point of view.  black bill and MGTOW is accurately summarized. lay down and rot. I find these mindsets particularly toxic and the antithesis of what drew me to the red pill in the first place which was "why do I suck with women". You know pondering why was I failing? Even then I didn't go into the incel world, and what I had seen of it was purely toxic self hating insanity to such a level that I could not fathom even in my warped state of mind.  I would somehow eventually discover circumcision, and become obessed with it. It was a rape and mutilation and it's discovery gave me horrible flashbacks of my own infant rape and mutilation(and no I am not interested in anyone telling me it's a good thing, you are wrong, I could prove it with ease, but I'm not getting into that fight here....just know that you are wrong utterly and totally).  you see, for as long as I have known, I have always had trouble bonding with people, I could never figure it out. It was instinctive honestly. I can't stand loving feelings and emotions being given to me. It always made me freeze up and be awkward. I also always had unexplainable rage towards my parents.  I finally came to peace with all of that and that is when I discovered said circumcision and became filled with rage. I became obsessed, i learned every possible conceivable fact about it. Which is why there is nothing you could say to convince me that it is a healthy and harmless act as I simply know more about it than you do. This also added to my misery and hating, because I know what I know, I know sex, simply cannot be half of what it should be since I am missing half my dick thanks to pedophiles masquerading as doctors. And so I continued to justify that I am destined to be alone or that I will work on getting a relationship later or any other number of things. That said, that produced a sick mind. The bible has a fun quote for that, and who knows if it said else where but:  18 For in much wisdom is much grief: and he that increaseth knowledge increaseth sorrow.  I think this is pretty accurate statement here. The red pill, black pill, and even the aforementioned circumcision gave me much truth, even if it isn't all accurate it did make me miserable. It turned me back towards and fully into a self hating bastard.  But all these facts, all this knowledge on the sexes, the red pill, circumcision, black pill, MGTOW, and even racial awareness. While these facts may actually be accurate, and I could argue them quite well, your last bit of the video is what really stings and where you make your best point.:  When you talk about the black pill being suicide fuel, this is exactly right. When you become obsessed with reading negative comments about yourself because they cut to the core of who you are and the comparison to cutting yourself(something I did the way distant past). This seems accurate because I think the toxic communities we are drawn to are parts of ourselves that we naturally like, so in this case, learning about the sexes to get laid, but because the internet creates echo chambers of toxic BS, what starts out as normal learning quickly spirals. Incels and MGTOW being the end result of this particular rabbit hole.  you say:  "Im not going to respond to your world view like its an intellectual position worthy of debate because you're not using them the way rational people use arguments. your using them as razorblades to abuse yourselves"  And that is where you win and where this video really hit me. The rest after that is just gravy. So yes, while I feel confident I could win an argument in any of the above mentioned topics in my sob story, I think I would lose precisely because I am using them as a razor blade of self abuse, to keep going down that death spiral and forming mental habits that will make it impossible for me to be happy.   Today my internet personality must die. I officially kill it.   I recently turned 34 and kept swearing myself I will not carry bullshit with me into my 34th year....yet I couldn't keep that promise to myself but a few hours. I have to and will keep that promise.   Time to get off this hellhole that is the internet.
Love your videos and your so attractive! Keep doing what your doing 😘
Please
Do a colab with Joe Rogans podcast
The problem is the many of these guys access gore websites and make fun of women that are unfortunately victims of tons of different tragedies. When a woman are killed, or she got Cancer or tetraplegic they feel really great because is not every beautiful person that is having fun and enjoying life. They use these situations and feel happy about the tragedies because just like them tons of women out there are being killed by their partners, tons of beautiful woman out there are killing themselves , tons of women out there are dying of cancer, dying in car crashes, became tetraplegic. They use these tragedies to prove to themselves that some of theses women that constantly reject them are not gonna be able to enjoy life just like them.
Nice video, I think you’d make a great teacher. I learned a new made up word, “femoids”. Sounds like what a sex robot company would be called.
Brilliant!
You're voice sounds really good, how'd you get it to that point? Like practicewise?
Gorgeous set design Natalie.
I remember when I used to actually think the way these guys do... Oh to be 13 again... I was an awful little fuck.
Contra has a Chad-Skull.
Only someone with your charisma could make this topic so entertaining and not horrible and delusional as it really is
Honestly, your setup gives me life
So, I frequent on a reddit board called R/ForeverAlone. Its kind of like Incels-lite, with all the self-loathing and general anguish that goes on there. I joined there because I had all these nasty feelings and I felt (and still feel) rejected by society. But from watching your video I see that it is a very toxic place. While not as bad as r/Braincels, it still is a form of digital self-harm. Being apart of that community has made my mental health tank and made me somehow feel even more miserable. I wont be going back there again
Incels are pathetic primarily because they make "having a relationship with a woman" the highest good, and essentially conclude that life without this is worthless.  Ironically, this attitude is extremely repellent to women.  The most alpha thing a man can do is become volcel:  to disregard women entirely (monk style).  Just below this is a man with a healthy marriage and a family.  The "Chads" who bang lots of sluts (especially PUA types) are far below this, and are only just above incels.  They are pathetic for precisely the same reason:  they spend an inordinate amount of time on pursuing sex, which is a very small part of life, and is essentially useless outside the context of marriage and reproduction.  That said, I find a lot of their content hilarious.  Posts about being a "chincel" (weak chin) or "forearmcel" (small forearms), etc.  Most of it is much more light-hearted than the media portrays.  The r/Braincels community is particularly funny.
word. i'd like to add that digital self-harm or intentionally seeking out triggers for your insecurities can be a form of obsessive compulsion. i'm a lifelong OCD and when i was a teen girl on tumblr who liked superwholock but was kind of self-conscious about it, i used to search for "anti" blogs dedicated to making fun of these interests & deriding fans as unintelligent or even morally bankrupt. (meanwhile, i'm only ever amused when people make fun of things i'm not insecure about. like, i never seek out hate threads for people with long noses.) i was all but physically unable to stop. i still have a bit of a bad habit but medication + site blocking software takes the edge off.
no way a kid from a happy parents will become a self-identified incel
I LOVE YOU I LOVE YOU I LOVE YOU
why is she so fucking hot
I truly do hate myself. I have no family,friends,kids,or wife at age 34. I am a loner and a loser,and I make myself sick,just by looking at myself in the mirror. I know I will never know the love of a woman. Although,I try my hardest to be a good person,women still reject and hate me. They ignore and avoid me like a disease. Every night before I go to bed,I hope that I don't wake up to live through another day of hell. Loneliness, rejection and being hated for no reason hurts worse than anyone could ever imagine. I have nothing...and I am nothing.
You can still buy Strats, though.
This is the first video by you I've seen and you're so funny and witty I had no choice but to subscribe
the whole incel thing is SO hypocritical
i wanna be a bread scientist
are they unaware that you can just call woman females?
Wow, they're really making it a big fucking deal to interact with a woman. We aren't that mystic, really not. They're going to be so disappointed for wasting so much of their time, like.. women can be great but.. srsly, go do something else if it didn't work out for you yet? I think it makes most sense.
Why not just buy a fucking jaw/chin implant then? It's like the same price as breast implants. Work hard, save up, get the surgery. Bam bada boom. You're a chad.
Can I get your number?
hold on is this Becky the same Becky as the Becky with the good hair?
Yes but I just wanna put it in.
werner was actually making a comment about the fact female astronauts were given concessions to do the same job as males. They actually underperformed as compared to men. He thought it was an absurd waste of money.
You remind me of a female Cecil Baldwin from WTNV, amazing 👌🏼👌🏼👌🏼👌🏼😤
You don't look like a man at all. You pass so well I had no idea you were trans till you mentioned it.   However, you are profoundly wrong about Jordan Peterson, and you seem much too intelligent, funny, and cool to say stupid shit like "Jordan Peterson is a sexist old man". You also know you're full of ignorant BS saying that, as indicated by the phrase " kind of", so I suggest you find time to research Jordan's work it will make you a better woman, a better trans woman.  I'm one of the people who benefited from his work and I was never a man or involuntary celibate in my life. In fact, I am a bisexual woman married to a bisexual man. BTW, 56 only seems old when you're 29, but time flies and before you know it 56 will seem like middle age to you.  Edit: Please don't have brutal face surgery you don't need to have a less pronounced brow ridge. I'm a cis woman with a pretty pronounced brow ridge and I'm a 7 on my best days and after a makeover, but my husband is a pure 12...He doesn't mind my pronounced brow ridge at all...It's called marrying a man who isn't shallow.
Girl, you're beautiful and the intelligence, witty humor just radiate from you. Looking forward to much, much more content from you!
Thunderstorms may be hot but ~petrichor~ is sexy af 💦
I have a question about hypergamy, since it sounds like bullshit.  When I researched this, which was about 20 years ago, people who were within the same 1-10 appearance rating have the most physical public concept with each other when being observed by... I don't remember, social psychologists I assume... those who were a point apart had less, and those who were two apart had almost none.  I want to say the book I read this in was "how to make anyone fall in love with you."  I don't know if it's placing the more attractive person on a pedestal or if it's unconscious disgust at the less attractive person, but people who are equally attractive tend to have happier relationships.
Roosh looks so WORRIED about how people will perceive his hobby, wow, that made my entire day
"Men like scientific things…" He seems to think that men like science by virtue of their… uh, maleness. Yeah, sure. I think he's scraping the bottom of the barrel for excuses and justifications.
So, being post hysterectomy, I guess I no longer have a vagina.  I have a "fuck hole".
"Dogmatic flattery" I like that a lot. Well-worded.
😢🙁😖
You're amazing, I subbed. I was a female incel for a while when I was younger... yes, I was jaded about other women as a woman myself.  You're so right, it's easy to take insults as truth when it hurts, and to feel relief since anything good feels like a lie. The concepts of "the truth hurts" and "the truth will set you free" are heavily distorted in the self-harm narrative.
Dear Contra,  Would you consider making a video on the idea of addiction as a disease, and the implications that it is a choice?  I have seen a lot of posts from people I called friends in highschool trying to assert that addiction is a choice.  I know this might not be the loudest opinion in the right-o-sphere, but I'd like to hear what you have to say.
Jesus H Christ I never really felt like delving into this incel shit and now I don't know how to feel.
Hi contrapoints, I'm a mgtow guy, your research (as always) is very well done but you missed one thing about mgtow.  Not all of us are celibate.  We refer to celibate mgtow as a "mgtow monk".  Some of us do date but are cautious due to the one sided marriage/divorce laws.  We tend to avoid marriage in general. Though, I can see why you might not have said so given the vid is about the incels. I just wanted to clarify.  Hope I'm not being a nit-picker.  Btw you're gorgeous.   Note: I'm not saying all women are going to divorce you in my remark about one sided laws.
Wow what a masterpiece of a video. So glad I found this channel. You're a queen.
The moment I heard what's his beard say I' not a baker, I ama ultramasculine, as you can see" I wanted to throw a big piece of cake at him. Cooking is a skill, not a gender exclusive thing you hyper-insecure man child.
As a Chad, I had no idea I was so intensely disliked by so many people simply for having a good skull shape.
A tranny thinks her opinion on mental health of other people matters Roflmao k at least they aren't taking hormones and trying to mutilate themselves  I'm no Incel, this is just sad.. It's sad. 😂 "Rational people" Holy shit like u know
Jumping on the latest trend is the oldest and thereby least trendy trend.
Fuck yh
yesssss....return to the sea..yog sothoth....
Oh no mom did I lose my shot or did I just never had one </3
I’ve never seen this channel but this was very well explained! Well done!
Please do one about gender ideology, the term that religious fundamentalists use to install fear in society about a conspiracy that the "LGBT lobby and feminists" wants to influence/convert kids through education. Love all your videos.
hahaha love the asmr part lol
Uhhhh just clicked on your video and became a fan in like 5 minutes
my new favourite channel <3
lmao
Incels don't hate society because they are alone... They hate it because they have seen the horror, the darkness of the society, the sick and perverted minds of human beings... But they don't pray, they don't believe in God because they have seen the horror... It's terrible but it's true. Human beings are dirty, are sick. Internet is full of that depravation, that horror. And there is no place to hide...
I don't know what it is, but your voice is sooo relaxing omg
Die manner sind schmutzig, manchmal Panty sniffing, LOL
i love this video
lol incels. am sendin dem al str8 2 hel
I really love this video.  I feel like I've been screaming these things to my depressed friends, my lonely male friends, but especially at myself.  And it's hard to take yourself seriously and take your own advice.  But hearing them from you, another human- it really helps.  Thank you. I hope you read this comment.  Because- I clicked on this video randomly, as it was in my sidebar.  I've never heard of you or seen any of your videos before, so I had no idea you were a trans-woman.  I'm not very politically correct, and this honest to god isn't an "everyone is beautiful" comment.  When you said you used to live as a man, I thought maybe you meant, you were a biological female who thought she was trans-male for a time, lived as a man, then decided that she was truly a female and went back to their biological sex.  A few moments later I realized you were a trans-woman.  You look entirely female and honestly, I think a facial feminization surgery would be a waste of money.  From the point of view of a complete stranger, I had no inclination to think you were a trans-woman.  And I personally have a lot of trans friends, so it's not like the concept of someone being trans is foreign to me.  My only thought of your appearance was that your make-up is on point.  And my only negative thought of your appearance is that your upper lip looks a little overdrawn.  Lol.  Anyway, I hope you read this comment, as it is what I honestly thought.  And I hope it helps combat the times you looked yourself up and read stupid hate comments from strangers (who must be lying out of envy, jesus fucking christ).
That was amazing. Easiest decision to sub ever
You...deconstruct the whole incel delusion in less than 10 minutes. Impressive.
This is the first video of yours I’ve ever seen and I legitimately thought “this girl is so hot and funny and intelligent I love her” and then 3/4 into the video I realized I’m not bisexual, I’m pansexual. Cheers.
Fucking "Incel" ideology and anything like it is a logic plague: a series of arguments with a destructive come out that will spread because people WANT to believe them. I am an Incel in the sense that I am in an involuntary celivate but the only way to stop a logic plague is to stop thinking about it. And I... Try.
I have never seen any of your videos before this one and I can confidently say, I am in love with you  No but for real, I'm now a subscriber and yes you're great
Holy shit, you are doing important work.
I mean, this is all pretty accurate but you're not actually refuting any of their points. Yes it is true that many guys will never get a meaningful relationship with a woman, just like it's true that lots of trans will never pass and would be better off not transitioning. And in fact there is a lot of overlap between the two, incels who end up believing they might find love if they become the girlfriend. Because that's where the end of the video gets it completely wrong, it's not about just eroticism, every incel knows how to fap. It's about love and intimacy. It's the loneliness of having no one who will ever like you enough to want to do any of those things with you.  Also don't get your dick cut off and replaced by a horrifying poorly made open wound pls, that'd be a shame and you'll probably regret it.
Welp, that's it. Off to go have sex with a thunderstorm! (Though, first time watcher of this channel, and I think you did an awesome job. Very eye-opening!)
Edit 4: I'll return to my mother, The Sea.
I LOLd all the way through this! So weird there's enough deluded, dysfunctional dudes with so little life experience.  Bonus pts for me: I know who your male narrator it's elsewhere on YouTube. Mwah ha! 😀  P.S. you're utterly deluded if you think "rock n roll is dead". No, you just stroke your elitist classical taste too much.
I have been a woman seeking women in dating apps, and I got almost total radio silence. I sent out over 50 email, only got 3 responses, and only had 1 girl ever email me first.
I had no idea you were trans. Even when you said you were going to tell something, I thought it was just going to be that you were gay. You're beautiful, don't let horrible people tell you otherwise :D
just jack off
reported for ocean porn. sorry
I love this video
I’m in love with this channel omg
I'm very happy you're shining some light on this dark subject.
I love your videos! Ideologically, I disagree with you on a lot of things, but you present your data so nicely and logically! You are the perfect imaginary opponent, your videos really do make you think. Thanks for all the hard work!
I'm a natural born woman with a big head wtf kind of delusional world are they living in? I feel so bad that they think this way and that may always think this way until they die or kill themselves. Just wow. Haven't they ever heard of Androgyny?
Just found you, you're amazing! thank you!  about to binge all your videos.
Your makeup's looking great! Just wanted to sayyyy that
how fucking hard is it to chew with your mouth closed...
So sad that these men have been corrupted by mainstream medias beauty standards of what men should look like and dare I say, act like.
13:34 who leaked my morning routine?
Holy fuck, queen, I wish I was a fraction as cogent as you when discussing these sorts of issues. I appreciate you likely have a script and teleprompt but you deliver your points wonderfully.
i loved this.  thank you for being some an amazing person and for all of the time, effort, and honesty. "the manosphere exists because rock and roll is dead." now i'm dead.  WHAT HAVE YOU DONE!!!!
"Certain parts of my face make me look like a man" Bitch you're more fem than me and I'm cis!  (Also yeah I get it, I'm obsessed with my jawline and neck ever since people started saying I look like my dad)
thank you. thank you thank you thank you. just thank you.
This is the first of your videos I've seen and I think every single millimeter of your face bones are perfect.
your videos are so good! this is the first i’ve watched of yours and i already feel so intellectual and woke wow
I truly adore your videos so much!
Good content !
omg this is the first video I've watched and it's one of the most well edited and put together things I've seen on you tube. I'm going to get creepy and mention that I am from baltimore and totally want to be your best friend because you rule <3
You're amazing. I'm so glad I found your channel!
The guide to most of an incel's vocabulary: just add 'cel' to a preexisting word.
This is brilliant and enlightening. Thank you for educating me on the incel struggle.
This is the first of your videos I have ever seen. I really enjoyed this and thought it was fascinating. Its very interesting that you research these sects of the internet and explain how they work in an intellectual way instead if just ranting about it like a lot of other people would. Please, keep up the good work!  Ps. If you hadn't explicitly said that you were trans I never would have guessed!
"at least these pricks care enough about my pussy... to be an ASSHOLE about my DICK"
Imagine her getting fucking scared.
6:39 people joke about a certain group being a part of a less evolved species and often depict their skulls to look like a monkey's. It's part of human nature to throw stupid insults based on intelligence and attractiveness and boast about being "superior" because those are valuable traits that other animals also judge upon in the wild when finding a suitable mate and creating the next generation
Ad for mancari.com on 23AUG18
Soo..this is the first time being on this channel since this video is in my recommendation list....didn't know what to expect...blew my mind honestly...you have the makings of youtube royalty especially with the alluring repertoire you possess 👏👏😁
Hm. Sounds a lot like some of the more extreme circles on tumblr, too. "Thinspo" (pro-ana), and certain "body positivity" (feeders, or the idea that being fat is wholly genetic so you may as well eat more) groups, anyone?  The misandric groups on tumblr, are definitely mirror images of these "incels". They use very similar violent language, and it would have been worth at least a glance at those people in this video, honestly.
Oh my goodness, this is such a brilliant mix of mockery, empathy and insight. Thanks for a brilliant video Contra :)
Unsurprising amount of dislikes made me laugh.
This video is AMAZING! Everything is so well researched and put together. I'm hooked. (Also, men who don't like messaging first just need to get on bumble, not tinder, but all dating apps are garbage for everyone)
shes both the most beautiful looking&sounding woman I've met, and brilliant at explaining this without giving incels more ammo to fire at us. subbed and notifs on, cant wait to see more from you! :)
Is it bad that I found the picture of the normie more attractive  than that of the Stacey ?
comment
33:10 Lmaoo I can't. anyway this video is great and you're honestly so attractive (but don't tell the incels I said that ;^))  "volcel if you wouldn't" I'm  d y i n g
great video :) Thank you!
wow i just discovered this channel and it's everything i want.
Are you really taking Incels seriousley?.....
Soooo this is my first video and I had no clue you were trans till you said something, so I have no clue what the fuck those guys are seeing Love the video and the message :D going to watch so many moer.
Note: I was following up on a comment from an Incel who posted on a Destiny vid that he would engage in a larger discussion and found he described quite a bit of the same behavior of constant negative commentary and reinforcement that creates a dark spiral downward that he decided to pull himself out of: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MeJNb0kESQM
Are you running for pres 2020? You should.
Can you please record some ocean asmr describing how life all submits to the mother figure that is the ocean almighty.
You are really pretty. Your mind is extremely attractive too.... dayum gurl!
Incels are fascinating to me. I both hate them for being so vile and misogynistic and pity them quite a bit for how much suffering and self-loathing they go through. Thanks for a really cool take on this, the skull thing is so disturbing!
When I was messaging women, ahem *femoids*, on OkCupid, I liked a cute alt/goth art student named Eli. Thinking that I'm a funny wiseguy I sent a witty message, "THAT'S A BOY'S NAME."  She replied, "Thanks for noticing asshole. I'm transitioning right now but I kept the name to reclaim my identity."  I felt like an enormous bigot and I told her, "I hope you have a thing for feet, because both of mine are currently in my mouth right now."
I’d like to get your opinion on the cyberpunk 2077 outrage
Well said, well made. Basically a ContraPoints video.
As a woman who has been constantly told I’m not good looking enough AND doesn’t get a lot of hits on dating sites, I don’t have sympathy   When I have dry spells, I don’t blame anyone else. Or myself. It’s just a combination of bad luck and societal norms. I don’t go online and whine about how mean the world is
I want to make a witty comment that is on topic but all I can think of is how I need ContraPoints to do ASMR. Damn Chad circumference...
The reason we go seeking negative things about ourselves is because we have an innate nagging doubt when anyone who tells us good things about ourselves; that can't be true, we think, so they must be lying. We can't quite let ourselves believe it, so if we just go looking, then surely we can find the "real truth" about ourselves. We go and find the views that match the most negative views that we're seeking to confirm, & therefore, these will be the only views which we don't write off as lies. Of course, if you ask 100 people to rate you on your looks, and all 100 rate honestly, then some people will think you look good, some won't. That's called personal taste. What we effectively do when we behave like this is go after the worst 2 or 3 viewpoints from those 100 people and take that as the "honest view" - those other 98 people must be lying, we say, or, they're just being kind.   I was lucky to grow up without Reddit and way before the incel thing - looking at it now, I am terrified of what would have happened to me had I done so, because I grew up convinced I was ugly & I can see how the incels model the world would really have appealed to my insecurities. Reality is i'm just a pretty normal looking dude but even now in my mid 30s I can occasionally have a feeling that i'm butt ugly, no women want me, and anyone who disagrees must be lying. Usually when i'm ill and feeling low. The thing is, objectively, I can refer to experiences that should blow my own negative thoughts about myself out of the water (& probably classify me as a 'chad' in incel eyes). I've slept with utterly beautiful women, I've seduced on first dates, I've been told that I look like a greek statue, & much more. But it's so easy to fall into believing my worst thoughts about myself, because despite everything I've experienced, the little voice in my head is still trying to convince me to see only the worst. Knowing my own headspace, I can see how I might have become an incel in my early 20s if i'd been exposed to it.  There's really no big secrets to overcoming these things; it's about finding ways to cope with your anxieties. Relationships of any kind are as simple as this; the more energy you spend focusing inwards on your self, the less energy you have to give outwards to other people. Nobody wants to be around an energy suck. If you're busy being anxious and neurotic inwards, what do you have to offer outwards? Men: Simply think of women who are self obsessed - it's not attractive, right? Well, you're effectively doing the same thing. Need an analogy? Think of your inner state like a garden (inner world) nestled in the countryside (outside world). You want to go off and explore the countryside and see what's out there, because it's beautiful and wondrous. If everything is in order in your garden, the flowerbeds are kept, the lawn is mown, then you're going to be able to go out and wander around the woods and along the streams. You'll enjoy the beauty without ever having to turn a thought or worry for the state of your garden, because you know you've got that shit locked down. You are free to enjoy the moment that you're in. But if on the other hand your garden is overgrown and desperately in need of maintenance, there's junk on the lawn and weeds everywhere, then you still might want to escape into the countryside to get away from it, but the reality is that you're not going to enjoy the beauty around you so much - you're going to be distracted thinking about the mess back home. This is more or less what you're doing when you go out seeking a woman to solve the fact that your inner world is a mess (eg lots of negative self talk and anxiety). You're trying to get validation from the external world, to make up for your lack of self validation from the internal. But of course you don't succeed because you can't really be present - you're too wrapped up in yourself, & anyway, you're trying to take (to get validation) and not give. It's also why both men and women love confident people - because when someone is confident, they're not looking inwards all the time, they're not trying to take from you, they're able to actually be present with you, listen to what you are saying, and try to understand you (rather than being too wrapped up in their own shit).  The good news is that you can make it a continuous conscious decision to get your inner world in order & focus your energy outwards. You can actually make it a habit. Any time you find yourself turning thoughts inwards with negative self talk, you can shut it down and *literally tell youself* to redirect your energy. One final thing: it really made a difference to my mental state when I was a young "proto-incel" to start listening to philosophy - Alan Watts is a really good place to start. I found that incredibly useful, particularly in realising that to even fret about what other people think about how I look is to seek validation from external sources that I don't really need.    Maybe none of this will ever get read, but hope it maybe helps someone shake themselves out of it.
You lost me when you compared incels to MRAs. i don't think it's fair. I normally don't agree with you but this vids pretty good.
Great Content, keep it up ❤️
I feel personally called out by the "eroticism of a rainstorm" bit.
Wow lol. I absolutely love this video. Your style is refreshing, and you made me laugh a ton, while informing me of something brand-new (to me, anyway).  Please, keep making awesome content! You rock :)
Idk who you are but I think I’m in love with you ok
20:50 holy fucking shit you kill me
Honestly these guys should just join a monastery. This is one of the only times where I feel like someone could enjoy life more by doing so.
You are so beta you became a woman! You took the pink pill instead of the black pill... Why on earth are you even trying to deny this?
But why do they want to bang women when they hate them so much?
Just subbed... now to binge watch your channel
I'm not sure why this ended up on my suggestion page, but I'm all about it. You're awesome.
Ive found that when you break out of that bubble of hate, things just, feel so much better. I can enjoy music I used to hate with a burning passion. I feel like I can do anything. Like I can look at myself, and think "Id fuck me". If you cant eyefuck yourself then whats life mean yo?
I find the terminology they use, especially Chads, Tyrones, Chadpreets quite amusing. Also I discovered there apparently also are "Chaddams"- Chads of Middle Eastern descent.
I am German and love to collect old books and have some from the fascist times in Germany on a relationship between skull shape and intelligence. The book I have from before the war, says there's no connection, but the one during the Nazi times conclude there is a connection, and even goes into the differences between regional Germans. Very interesting to see how the perspective changed and how obsessed people are with skulls.  For the record the books are called: Rasse und Geist (Goetz), 1932 (concludes there is no definitive causation between skull shape and intelligence) and Das deutsche Gesicht (Rodentels), 1939 (proclaims Germans to be superior)  I love your videos. Thanks for making them!
You are lost.
Did you make up that "Hopecel" one, or is that another tragi-comically (but, mostly scary) term from these sad sacks? :/
*Me:* "Proud o' myself for trying out having my speakers on 62%, I won't have to worry about getting deaf. Yuk-yuk-yuk." *Me, 3 minutes later:* "Well, I GOTTA turn up the volume for this one, I mean...It's Natalie Wynn!"  <3
seeing people take the red pill at face value is honestly kind of amazing. shows how people will buy into anything if it says that they're not the problem in their lives.
This video is a masterpiece
Amazing video.  Also, I never thought I'd get a boner thinking about the sea. That's a first I guess.
"inherent eroticism of the sea" yesss, finally someone who talks about this <3
This was really excellent. I find this sort of thing fascinating and have always been curious as to what the incel stuff is all about. This is a fantastic video and absolutely worthy of praise.
i live for the effort and artistry you put into these educational and DEEPLY important videos. keep doin u miss thang bc no one else is!!
This was so relaxing even tho it was about *incels*
Mexican andy needs to see this
terf contrapoints looks like winona ryder...
A famous philosopher... 🌌
You know I really needed to see this xxx
I'm not even a fan or subbed but I've seen a few of your vids a while back and I must say this was rather informative, not emotionally fueled/illogical or hard to stay focused on, and what I really noticed was that you look absolutely stunning. Nice work.
Man I haven't had sex in like 9 years, but I don't blame women for it and hate them, all of my problems are caused by me but this suicidal depression really fucking sucks.    and it's not because I'm ugly or anything, it's because i'm a retarded autistic weak souled subhuman. Not physical all mental characteristics.  And who the fuck gives a fuck about just sex, I want love, yeah sex, but with someone that I love and that loves me, but it's fucking impossible.  Also I don't want to bother anyone with my stupid bullshit. It's not about sex to me, it's this stupid fucking cold burning empty void in ym chest. I just want to get rid of this loneliness I fucking hate it.  And I don't even go on 4chan or anything. for fucks sake the worst place I go to is r/2meirl4meirl, I'm a fucking reddit idiot  Yeah, fuck the incel "philosophy" though  anyway yeah good video, you're pretty funny, also you already look like a girl to me, don't know why you need the bone cutting thing, But then again what the fuck do I know about how women look I haven't touched a girl in like a decade lol
Of all the Incel videos I've seen, I think this is the best one. Your intellect and empathy shine through and the way you've presented this issue is nothing short of professional. Keep up the good work!
WATCH REDPILL INTERVIEWS AND FACEANDLMS STARTING FROM 1.1. BILLIONS OF MALES INCLUDING MYSELF SUFFER TO THE POINT WE WANT TO KILL OURSELVES BECAUSE OF THIS. YOU NEVER SHOWED US WHAT TINDER WAS LIKE FOR YOU 'AS A MALE'. YOU'RE STILL A MALE BTW. YOU WERE BORN A MALE
Holy shit, I got nothin.  *slow clap*  Keep bein awesome!
This video was made by gang weed
Capitalism is why we can't have nice things/people. :(
Wasn't it the black pill?
wow im not even a lefty and was an enjoyable watch. well done much better than your older videos
Pls do a video on Factory famring of animals and Carnism thank you
Wait. Wait. Wait.  Wrist size.  Someone blames their wrist size for why they can't get laid rather than...literally anything about their actual behaviors and attitudes.  Wrist size.  ...what?
What lighting do you use? Ugh I am just LIVING for how it changes with the topic. Love it.
_watches the ending of the video_ This better not awaken something in me.
This is the first video of yours I watched and I am thoroughly impressed. Please keep doing what you're doing. You are beautiful in more ways than one.
You are very pretty, not unlike any other woman. 🙂
Hey, mostly unrelated to the core content of the video, but thanks for the word Catastrophizing; having terminology helps me understand what goes on in my head and build internal and external structures to counteract it.
Never seen one of your videos before but DAMN the set design is gorgeous! 😍
Thank you for being alive.
You are a gift 😂
Thank you contrapoints for giving me a new perspective on behind blue eyes. I feel pretty tortured all the time and it's one of my favourite songs but when you put that sound clip in I flipped a switch on that song and view it a bit more tragically and it's given me a little perspective, especially on the first part.   I'm a virgin and I really don't go out much or talk to people and I have really bad depression but I also have a lot of good attributes. The big thing people try to do is simplify, and that's a disingenuous thing that is usually at the heart of any incomplete ideology, but it's also the most understandable one too because you don't have the time to learn the ins and outs of everything so you better have a good cliffs notes book to bring along with you into life.  Pick a few of them so you at least sound more nuanced is my motto. At the end of this disconnected rambling I'd like to add that I like your set design from the two videos I've seen.
Damn... another hot trans girl. nice
Is this a man in makeup?
I feel like incels would continue to be miserable and hateful,  even if some "Stacy" slept with them.  They'd then have to create some whole other cult around why they aren't happy in life.
Omg your voice is so relaxing
Very informative. Working over nite pays off.
what chu drinking on? Angry Orchard for me lol.
This is the first video of yours that I've seen and it was bloody fantastic
As a svelte man with quite-slim wrists I take umbrage at that unplucked pube complaining about his wrists. I'm a complete failure and I can still get tail- what is generating this weird cauldron of dudes smearing victim-mud on themselves?
I really like your video, you're charming, funny, and you have some awesome lighting. I agree with a lot of your points, and your fresh points of view are certainly worth the long ass video time. Thanks for the interesting experience. 😎
I used to hang around on /r9k/ with all its brobots and fembots. It was a fun place to pal around and commiserate with people who suffered from depression and anxiety, but it’s also incredibly toxic. No one who values their mental health should internalize the rhetoric there. When I think about the people still struggling with this kind of self-loathing, I’m reminded of a quote from the movie Phoebe in Wonderland:   “At a certain point in your life, probably when too much of it has gone by... you will open your eyes and see yourself for who you are... especially for everything that made you so different from all the awful normals. And you will say to yourself... But I am this person. And in that statement, that correction, there will be a kind of love.”
You are awesome. Also, do you have Steve Valentine around just to read messed up things in a vaguely erotic way?
i'm not a woman, but somethings that some of the incel community's principles just fucking offends me
I'm a hope cell but really a theory cell lol
Hay I’m sure your not gonna see this is the sea of comments but I just want to say that you are a beautiful woman just the way you are. And this is a gay telling you this so you know it is sincere
you’re a gorgeous goddess everyday
Dear Tish - Perhaps I spoke in haste. Upon reviewing a few of your old vieos on violence and The Alt Right, I now see you as a pioneer in a new art form.  I think  you should audition for RP Drag Race or S3 Dragula. It's time for some highbrow horror like Hitchcock's "Rope". Your speech needs modulation not this unbroken rapid fire of the car salesman. Study Peter Brook's Marat/Sade ( free on YT).
This is amazing and enlightening. Great research
This is the realist bitch out here, great video!
Mostly what I learned from this is that ContraPoints is sexually attracted to water.
you are fan fucking tastic. subbin it up
Thank-you for making this forbidden knowledge palatable and entertaining. Also, you are fearless and gorgeous. Keep it up!
This sounds so much like "Ladder Theory," from back in the day gone wild. I admit I sympathize as well since my life experience has shown me life isn't fair, and taken out of the ridiculous vocabulary, there's a certain amount of truth and truthiness here even though it appears to be mostly depression leading to anger which I can also sympathize with. You take the firing squad of dick because it's self-validating no matter how you look at it. Especially if you occasionally take one of the dicks, very life affirming. Years of silence or rejection is not.
ok i genuinely though you were born female, it surprised me when you said you were trans, youre so pretty!
How tf did you go through my entire thought process when I first discovered incels? Seriously, every step you showed I went through and had the same feelings. I'm subscribing to this channel TODAY! (btw I was shocked when you said you were trans. I honestly wouldn't have known.)
I'm an incel who doesn't browse braincels or similar websites or hate women. I'm 19,6'5, 200 pounds, to the outside world I look completely regular and not like the generic basement dwelling incel that's always portrayed in the media. I have social anxiety, extremely socially awkward  and depressed, I don't even have regular friends male or female . I never really understood why people took advice from places like braincels,  other than the Sui fuel on there there's also a bunch of wizards and soon to be wizards giving younger incels advice on how to live their lives, that's actually why I stopped going on those websites, like dude if you have all the answers why are you still here. I really wish a lot of incels would stop going there for advice. I also like how you pointed out the fact  that most incels are normal looking and it's all in their head, that's something that took me a while to figure out, when I saw guys less attractive and way smaller than me having attractive girlfriends it really made me rethink the whole incel philosophy and approach to being in a relationship. Great video as always. Edit: why do I find you mildly attractive, I'm not gay or anything, it's just an observation
I don’t have anything witty to add but what I do have say may surprise you. My gender queer spawn mentioned you to me on our weekly call. I LOVE YOU WITH THE INTENSITY OF A THOUSAND SUNS. I am a cis female over achieving cripple who has a princess parking pass and is constantly accessorizing all conversations with muthafuckin cuss words and concern for everyone’s wellbeing. I am a medical unicorn who can’t travel but would like to invite you to visit me so I can give you a boob crushing hug, feed you fresh booze improved scones and talk for a ungodly amount of time. Think on it. You would make this shut in with sass very fuckin happy!  If the very idea of hangin out with a total stranger, no matter how obviously fucking awesome I appear,  gives you hives no problem. Acknowledging this here crazy ass comment would totally suffice. I’m off to buy some kick ass merch.
Contra, this entire video provides a wealth of evidence that YOU are an incel, and went trans + got onto YT to seek that validation you couldn't otherwise find. Change my mind.
"we're drowning in dick and most of it is terrible" *preach*
Well you might actually get a chance to bear children down the line. Recent successful uterus transplants in Sweden and now in the US have allowed  healthy women born with a non functioning uterus was able to deliver healthy babies thanks in part to donated healthy uterus-es. https://www.bswhealth.med/Pages/departments/transplant/uterus-transplantation.aspx
Contra you're somewhat right about the black pill, but the red pill absolutely has no literal meaning as you've portrayed it. It is used so broadly and by so many people, the only thing the red pill actually means is, "coming to find and/or accepting an [apparent] truth that you've previously denied to yourself." Black pill is also a bit broader, sometimes indicating your definition but also just generally meaning any message of hopelessness and nihilism. Meanwhile, the most important of all is absent from your video: The Glorious Pill!
I think incels have a point I feel sorry for them tbh
As a incel, this is well informed. Im suprised you didnt browse /r9k/. That board reeks of incels and despair.
What a fucking plot twist you look so much like a woman is that gay? Idk am I gay for thinking she was a biological woman?
We love learning about incel anthropology lmao
I am not dating cause I need to get my shit back together, after all I won't date why would I expect anyone else to. I miss sex but it's not the most important thing...maybe top 5
Communism can solve incels problem. if only they knew.
Rainstorms make me blast rope.
33:50 "It was raining outside and I JIZZED IN MY PANTS!!!!!"
💋❤💖
You actually make a good looking girl not gonna lie
Natalie, you've become too powerful  Now i have to watch myself so i don't say "feeeemoid" around my family.
I am quite happy I found your channel! I love your commentary and explanation for this group of individuals. I have watched a few videos on Incels in the past but none have actually tried to look at it from a neutral standpoint (which to some degree I get, especially when it comes to the murders and other moral wrongdoings that some of them commit). It's actually refreshing. Also, you are quite insightful and rather charming in your presentation. Definitely gonna stick around and recommend your videos to my friends!
Roosh can't even cook food for himself without having to justify it through the lens of his weird gender politics. Wow, so alpha.
It's so odd that incels regard the chad as an actual being. The chad is supposed to exhibit over the top and opposite traits of "the virgin," who has completely reasonable behaviors.
OMG I saw fifth base and I was like.... wait, what's fifth base? And when she chimed in with the answer at that exact moment I lost it.
That intro almost made me click away.
"There's something basically Soviet about the way the internet names things." "To incels anatomy is more a matter of metaphysical speculation than crude science." OMG, I've watched less than five minutes of one video on this channel and I think I'm already in love.
This was just a great video because it is so positive about who you are and how you can damage yourself by self-hate through the vein of understand incels.  Just amazing
I, for one, happen to enjoy your smoked whiskey infused voice.
Im so glad i found you! You are like a witty, pretty(/ier) Judy Greer. Love your dark forest librarian vibe (in a good way!)
If your life is worthless, (decided by you) why not devote your life to a noble and selfless cause
Men's Rights Activists are a pretty expansive category, and generally reject the red pill 'philosophy'.  IME they're mostly interested in like... emotional suppression, conscription, disproportionate poverty and homelessness, dangerous working conditions, unequal prison sentences, and unaddressed sexual violence and abuse.  (Oh, and circumcision.  They reaaaaaallly don't like circumcision.)  They feel that the hope that feminism addressing women's concerns will necessarily solve those of men is insufficient, and some believe certain feminism-derived policies (for instance, the Duluth Model) are counterproductive... but support women's rights in general.  It's an 'also', not 'instead'.   The closest to the Red Pill sort of stuff I've generally seen is argument that women's troubles are given disproportionate emphasis, due to reproductive rates.  There's definitely Weird Ideas out there, but... in a sense, the Red Pill is to MRAs as TERFs are to feminism.
Nice production
found your vids from the golden one i am now a huge fan i love you you libbie you ❤
I honestly can't get over how pretty your hair looks!
**cringe**
Just stumbled across this channel after watching a Jordan Peterson and Sam Harris debate, oddly enough. Great video, CP!
"unobtanium"  lmao
My fucking god you're good.
The chad who is ready to toach nearby pu**y sounds like donald trump
I am a gay male and I am triggered. I'm an egalitarian but some people are just twister.
You need the glorious pill, degenerate dog!
A video about incels from a confused (inb4 triggered: this particular individual, not all trans) trans incel. Why do I even try to watch....
This is absolutely fantastic. I'm so glad to have found this. Subbed.
Jfc, I have headphones on, damn that censor bleep! D:
subscribed so fucking hard
I don't know what's more awesome: the amount of research you do and process into this video,  or the flawless delivery of said processed context. Brava! Also shout out to BMORE!
i really hope you make more content like this vid
what do they think of asexuals
Even moron incels realize that you're a dude.
Do you like Yukio Mishima?
"...Can we get coffee first?" Omg how am I just finding your channel now I love you.
heh heh, marry me
another one
I just found my new favorite Channel
i just found you and you deserve so many more subscribers; you are so fucking funny
found your channel via this vid. love your style (editing-wise and fashion-wise), vibe, humor, and refreshingly honest but objective arguments
How amazing are you to have this much of personality as a woman and be a man? Im a girl and I'd fuck you w/wo dick. Xcuze my language o:)
Why are you so great, what the hell I love you
I'm completely in love with the way you pronounce the word "cuckoldry".
i barely agree with you on anything else, but i love you for this video.
So I'm largely viewed as an "alt right nazi" despite being very much a centrist, and even I appreciate your style and format and you make really good, well informed points.  I appreciate that.  Subbed.
Are Mexicans incels called tacocels????? Please tell me that Mexican incels are called tacocels!!!!!
This popped up in my recommendations...I figure because I had a run-in with a bunch of "incel" types on a Philip DeFranco video yesterday. Either Youtube recommendations are getting smarter or I'm on a lucky streak because this is the second time in two days that my random forays into more toxic video subjects have led me around to amazing content with actually decent, thoughtful people in the comments.  I'm just...so...  HAPPY. 😭
why is this video so hypnotizing
This video made me create a fake girl account on Tinder. The first guy that appeared was one of my friend's friends. It's fucking ridiculous I feel like I'm in a  comedy movie
Wait a second TYRONES WTF like Tyrone from Corrie ? Hahaha thats literally the only time ive seen someone called Tyrone and his whole character is the exact opposite of what these people are going for, like he literally had a male domestic abuse story line where his wife regularly beat him with a vaccum cleaner.
"the inherent eroticism of the sea" dying 😂😂😂
So you are denying that only a few percentage of men (Chads)  can have acccess to a sex with a lot of women? Don't think about tinder dynamics, but those in real life! What redpill says is absolutely true and this are the major points: Women are obsessed with looks (aka skull shape), or alternatively with money and status Women can have a simple access to the sexual market regardless their look Only a 20% of man can have a simplified access to the sextual market, other one can only hope in a long term relationship and act as Beta Provider. Ugly men are excluded from the sexual market unless they are rich or famous Jaw shape is the most indicator of fertility in males. Jaw is what make the man Beauty generate a bias also know as Halo Effect. So, Chads are preferred both for their superior genetic, and for the Halo Effected generated by their look. They are perceived as dominant, and in nature females goes for the alpha male.  Everyone that deny this points is a lier or naive.
youre always so fashionable in your videos hot damn
You dont look like a “hon”
I never knew of you until this video. Youtube kept recommending it to me and eventually I was like FINE I'LL WATCH IT >:( and I'm glad I did.  I love your the way you analyze these topics and your humour and wit. Great content <3
Artillery only
I completely lost it at "Hi Stacy, it's Tracy" lmao
Could you do one on MGTOW or the differences between the two? Since they don't seem altogether different. Except for the fact one group wants but can 'never' have women, while the other want to go their own way (and replace women with machines and shit).
i am very scared of incels
I wonder if some of this is partially a reaction to women perhaps having more leeway to be complex within the dating scene. There is a pretty robust marketplace for "basic men". I can sympathize with the feeling that your just too complex for the dating scene,the desire to simplify oneself,fearing that your complexity is an obstacle.
Very feminazi video promoting violence against insecure men.  If the roles were reversed this person wouldn't want to choke an insecure women and tell them to get off their ass.   But since its a man its perfectly fine.
The intro made me cringe.
On the video, these forums for self loathing remind me a lot of the E.D. community and "meanspo"
I'm so sad I just now found your channel! Your voice, your aesthetic, your humor, your editing, and the obvious thought and work behind these videos is all I want and I'm sad I have to work and don't get to just binge everything you've got. I don't know if it's your lighting or your face but you remind me of Slutever.
Another amazing video, thanks so much Natalie! I'm a transwoman and i, indeed, noticed how obsessed i became with bone structure and my appearance; tho i won't let it control me in any way and this video, along with literally being perfect, helped me realize that as well. Thank you goddess!!
This was a great video. Subscribed
*SKULLCHAN IS RIGHT. WOMEN DO HAVE SMALLER SKULLS ON AVERAGE. YOU CAN'T PASS EVEN AFTER FFS*
Also that corn dog bit...fucking perfect 😂
im a trans girl presenting for a year and I gotta say after running into this video, purely for research, you've got a fucking subscriber right here. tiddie skittles for life.
Omfg just found this channel. LOVING IT!
Amazing! I used to have this kind of self loathing and not necessarily blamed women, but I blamed myself. Thinking that I would never amount to anything and that I would never be happy. I'm a feminist and a lot better now, but this video really spoke to me. I wish I saw this when I was 16, it would have made highschool and college a lot better. But nevertheless, this video is a masterpiece at breaking down what incels are and why they continue their misogynistic nihilistic self-loathing. Thank you Contrapoints!
"bread scientist" lmao
I recommend /r/menslib for people feeling like they're sinking into this rabbit hole; it's very kind and supportive. It's a feminist community that mostly focuses on the issues faced by men under patriarchy. Think: expressing masculinity in a positive way, feelings of inadequacy due to feeling like you don't conform to society's expectations for you, etc.
Notice how she conveniently ignores all the facts about hormonal development which point to higher testosterone levels directly correlating with "alpha skulls".
your terf costume made me laugh so hard this was a great video thank u!
*This tranny has a very large male skull. Very brutish and Chaddish.*
This was your first video that I came across, and it's incredible.  I lust for the Sea.
Fuck. Being wet is whack. Fuck the ocean. Fuck liquid. Never mess with liquids. Even my blood is solid
The only thing I take issue with is you calling Jordan Peterson a sexist. Other than that it´s all good. Really fucking good. Your videos keep getting better and more refined. You have a unique mix of estetics, humour and wit. It´s a pleasure to behold what you so graciously and creatively offer us. I´m right-leaning because I got fed up with the political correctness that the left shoves down everyone´s throats, but I appreciate intelligent voices on the left and would love to see you have discussions with prominent figures on the right or who are perceived to be right-wingers, like for instants, Jordan Peterson. I´ve come full circle now, lol. Have a great day and keep those masterpieces coming, beautiful.
I was concerned by the difficulty I might have swallowing such a large blue pill as presented by this video.  Until I realized it wasn't a pill at all, but a suppository.
this was extremely informational... i can barely sit through a 20 minute video but you kept me hooked fir 35 mins. thx mum.
Olly Thorn has a lot of issues.
I hope to one day be able to assume a position and present it as convincingly as you do. God damnnnnnn
meh. deadpan straw man analysis with some cherry-picked tone policing thrown in, and a whole lot of minimization. and yes you do want to mock incels.
"Chadpreet" I'm fucking dead
not gonna lie i got asmr during the skull tappping
Jeez. I'm a transwoman, 3 years hrt at this point, and in my wayward 4chan years I spent a lot of time doing exactly what you said; looking the reasons to not think about it. Looking for reasons to repress. Shit. I learned a lot about myself. I still deal with internalized transphobia a lot, but have gotten WAY better at it... But I think it all kinda hit that tipping point when groups of people online collectively convinced me that there was no way to transition and actually pass.   Shit. I needed this. Thanks. <3 (this is my first time watching your vids by the way, friends recommended me, and I can see why now)
good video. but dont let it get to your big, huge, fat head. im just kidding hon. ok ill stop.
why can't they just jack off into a sock like the good old days instead of making violent threats
"goes to school to work on her meme career" fuck i chose the wrong major
KEK?
*E N T E R   T H E   B O N E   Z O N E*
*turns on the video*  *1 minute in, hysteric censoring noises*  Yup, I came to the right place.
I want a trans person as my best friend.  Not even joking, if I find a person like ContraPoints I'm kidnapping that person =)).
How do you even get inside those horrible places while keeping your sanity? When I get overexposed to toxic ideologies or just human stupidity it tends to bring me down.
You're absolutely hilarious! Youknow I wasn't entirely sure you were trans until you got to the part of video that mentions it. I... hope I can look so good one day... hah... Gosh. How did you... your voice?...
Sui fuel heavily reminds me of thinspo, especially the more negative ones.
I didn't think it was possible to end a video about such a depressing phenomenon on an uplifting note. The Hebrides helped though. Thank you
this was very, very good
Lol in this video I don't want to mock incels... then processed to mock incels. I mean I don't want to insult transvesticons but.....
It's almost as if all incels are connected by having bad personalities and not physical traits. But that couldn't be right, could it?
This video is offensive to alt right conservatives. Please delete it immediately
Are incels wrong though?
When I first clicked on this video, I thought, "Is that a man?" It didn't make a difference, so I kept watching and thinking, "She's so pretty, I love her voice, she makes so many great points, I'm so happy I found an intelligent female talking head on youtube!" And then, you dropped da bomb. I don't know if I should be happy I was right in the beginning, or sad I didn't actually find an intelligent female talking head on YT. Either way, great video, subscribed, keep it up girl and don't worry about those millimeters on your face; after my initial "Is that a dude?", I went on to simply think you were a handsome and beautiful woman.
I don't want you to take it the wrong way, but I initially suspected you might be trans because of the way you sit and hold a whine glass. I can't put my finger on it, but something appears masculine about that. Maybe I link that to some sort of King or Emperor who prejects comfort in his past accomplishments to appear like a leader. I think your face turned out great. Hopefully this didn't came off creepy.
I sub'd at "bread scientist".
You don't look like a man at all.
Why do all the content creators, while tackling the subject of incels, shy away from ‘the worst’ of what incels say about women?  You’re protecting them and giving the curious public a softer view of them than they deserve
I watched this vid yesterday, and returned today to see that.... oh yeah, this has definitely been shared on various incel/redpilled fora and some people are now doing damage control.
Part of me wants to argue with a lot of the types of people mentioned here. Tell them that they are normal looking guys and that their self loathing is the real problem, or tell these trans women that not all cis women are supermodels (i.e. tall cis women do exist, as do cis women with big heads, as do cis women with beards honestly... and so they need to chill out), or even to tell you (contrapoints) that I am a very white cis straight male and so I am not part of that hug... box (was it hug box? I already forgot) when I say that you look great.   ... However I also realize that I this isn't really a rational conversation, and that someone couldn't just argue me out of my insecurities either. So there is something of a paralysis about how to respond.
... Does that mean you can play a strat???
I'm really glad I found your channel through a serendipitous stroke of luck on YouTube's home page! The subscribe button has never been smacked do hard or fast
How come you only popped up in my recommended now?? Love this video, subscribed SO fast!
I have a friend who's super fucked up from 4chan. I actually have to tell him how the world really is. I've corrected him a few times but your right I gotta talk to him about his 4chan habits.   Good video btw
This is the first video I ever saw from you, and I'm happy to say that I really enjoyed watching.  In a few months I'll be finishing my med school and I have been working with mental health these past year and want to continue working on the field. With that said I don't want to sound an authority or anything, just want to complement that this video is really well made in that area.   It's important to remind people that we should criticize behavior like this, but we can't forget that they are people too, they have their own suffering and their own quality. The thing I dislike most is when people just bash on others with criticism but forget to at least offer an solution or some glimpse of hope.   One thing I would like to add, about this behavior of self loathing. People when facing situations that causes stress have multiples ways to deal with negative emotions, these are defenses mechanism that tries to defend our psyche from collapsing. Those mechanism can manifest as primitive for such as negativism (just saying that the bad thing isn't real) or take more elaborate forms.  One really common form of defense is the rationalization, when facing a stress situation, in the case of Incels not getting late, that person tries to find rational reason to why that is happening, even if that is harmful, his Ego is protected from the stress of the situation by hiding behind a false rationalization of that problem. And our psyche will look for anything that will validate that belief, its much more easy for our Ego to accept that the Incel not getting laid because of his skull structure than to accept the harsh reality that, there isn't one single reason, there are a lot of different factors that a single individual can be experiencing to end up making him lonely.   Well, sorry for the long text. Since english isn't my native language maybe there are something that I didn't express correctly. Anyway great video, and I hope to see more like this in the future.
I've always believed incels to be the most classic case of projection.  They have this delusional idea of what women want based on what they want themselves.  The more I like a person the more attractive they become to me, and the more I dislike them the less attractive they become.  I have met a man and thought "wow, so beautiful I can't even speak" then after getting to know him I wondered what I ever saw in him.  Alternately I've met man and thought, aww he's so sweet, too bad he's not cuter, then weeks later was wondering why I didn't see all these attractive qualities I missed before.  Not just men either, the same applies to women and friendships.  They just need to learn to stop judging based on appearance because they can't take the judgement themselves.  People in glass houses and all that.
I think you're gorgeous, as an aside I think your face is perfect.  I hope you have fun and find what you want :)
Nothing to do with this video, but in the corner of my eye I keep seeing a recommended video of yours called "Decrypting the Alt-right..." and I want you to know that the face you're making is low key scaring the shit out of me the more I see it. (also this the first video of yours I've seen and I'm happy to have found your channel!)
1. New info but interresting. 2. You did good  3. Your face looks fine :)
Black men get the most women and rarely struggle in the dating department. I was ready to believe this until he mentioned that most incels are non white. Most incels ARE white men with weak bone structures/socially awkward or asian men. It was started by a white man
Great video
concluding advice for incels: Jump into the ocean.   BUT NOT LIKE *THAT!* Like, In a good way!
3rd Wave Fem single mothers are everything wrong with what society has become, that and their believe they have the right to murder a man's seed, an innocent baby. They are teaching men that masculinity is bad, teaching boys that physical labor and dangerous jobs are bad. Construction employment is down 30% since 2006. Because 3rd wave fem libtards have invited in slave workers to undercut their pay. Citizens could make 25 bucks an hour in the 80s and 90s doing construction. Today, they make about 15 bucks an hour, despite massive inflation. At least you can pay non-citizens 5 dollars an hour to build everything and fix everything, while women occupy the buildings men built. Women pay themselves 100k a year to vlog and write crappy articles that the world could live without. Men do 99% of physical labor, dangerous jobs in harsh conditions. Enjoy buying 20 pairs of shoes, 20 handbags, a ton of fake up and so on, while sitting in a comfy computer chair in heating and air. Don't worry, phone up an illegal and underpay them to fix it for you. Men are done with socialism, and are done doing anything for women. The more sissy boys single feminists pump out, the more you're going to pay mechanics, plumbers, electricians, construction workers etc. Hope you like paying 800 dollars an hour. With limited people to fix your crap, they will be in high demand and they'll work for the highest bidders. While they're working for the highest bidders, no longer protecting women, all the 3rd world immigrants libtards invited in will be raping and murdering them. Enjoy!!!!!!!
As a cis female, I had no idea you're trans. You're fucking beautiful and your voice is pure sex. I'd date you in a heartbeat. :) Subscribed.
Incel,Cis-gender SocialJusticeWarrior I am sick of hearing these manufactured terms for entitled people to get attention...
They are creating their own reality, rather than putting effort to change it.  I'm NOT that cute, but I'll tell you what. Some effort goes a long way.   Rejection will happen, but get the fuck over it.
This is a damn good video
I'm 1 minute in and can I just ask:  wtf
who's doing the David Attenborough impression? Brilliant!
Ok but I unironically love the term Bread Scientist??
Imagine how gorgeous you are becoming Contrapoints...
"JUST GO OUTSIDE BRO " I wanna strangle anyone who says this.
Two great talks on incels.People don't wanna admit that they've had the feelings that an "incel" feels because that would render them human.....and humans hate other humans. https://youtu.be/Ub4qr5JLNws  https://youtu.be/5J93U-iokyw
Had to get a BIG glass of coconut water to get thru this shit, Jeez this is sad, disgusting and uncomfortable. I'll be having nightmares of my bonestructure killing my genes for centuries. Thx for that, still loving your content, have a nice day!
Question... have you covered furries? I'd love to contribute if you ever want to
I know this doesn't have anything to do with this video (which is pretty great, by the way), but your eye makeup is fuuuucking gorgeous. Seriously, so beautiful. Wish I was that good at dressing up my own soul windows ^^
I get EXACTLY what you mean about starting to think in their vocab about other trans women. I dated a neonazi for 3 weeks, and his vocabulary and train of thought rubbed off on me and I hate it and everytime I think something racist I feel disgusting and I just want to scrub my skin until I can't feel the filth that that guy left on me.
I am a little bit in love. With your openness of mind and rhetoric; with your lustful water reveries.
13:27 That's me pretty much.
Incels is why prostitution needs to be legal (and VERY well regulated mind you). Seriously getting a good fuck would probably set some of these guys straight (and some therapy probably).
Why did insecurity have to be a thing that exists, again?
32:00 Your reaction to this post is exactly what I would do. No regrets on subscribing, you have some solid arguments and a good sense of humor. That's a dangerous combination for toxic ideology, and I love it.
That classical music makes me want to play Empire: Total War again.
Not gonna lie, the sea is pretty damn sexy
What an awesome video! I know people - including myself sometimes - suffering because of different levels of masochistic epistemology, and honestly, I always saw each one as a particular case of seeking an excuse to not waste energy in improving or moving forward. But your point is true: it is almost imposible to revert a deep level of "M.E" without therapy. I myself couldn't cope with it until I started therapy, and I kind of see why some of the people around me, who still have that kind of mindset, cannot be talked out of it with logic.  I just watched the video out of curiosity, and came out with a lot of info I didn't expect. Thanks :D
This is the first video i've seen of yours. I subscribed at "Rock'n Roll is dead"
Really cool is the difference between the skulls of the different races haha
First time I’ve viewed one of your videos! Loved it, your style of film and language is amazing 😀😀
How have I not discovered your channel until now. Thank you, O Phantasmagoric Mother.
natalie youre a fucking queen, i really appreciate the way you talk about controversial topics in an academic way.  so much internet discussion and discourse is so violent and reactionary and it's so refreshing to see someone outline a full, well thought out argument that's accessible to anyone and that is non-inflammatory. anyways youre the baddest bitch on youtube and u deserve the world bye
sorry im new to your channel, whats your gender .. please dont take offense
Now I am thoroughly disinclined to ever call anyone fem hon (popular slang here in the second capital of Newfoundland along with darling, m'dear and lass to refer to girls and women you are serving or speaking with). Thanks you.
You stay away from the Ocean!  It's mine!
What is that font? I love it!
I guess I fall into this category except that I really DON'T hate women. I've never blamed them for my sorry state. I don't like the extremist view that all women are either thots or queens. There will always be good and bad women, just like with men. The problem is on my side, though. I DO get ridiculously anxious with women and my self-esteem literally becomes non-existent the moment anybody (specially women) puts doubts in my head (granted, most of the time I put those doubts in myself).  I guess the reaction to this horrifyingly hopless way of life is either suicidal (e.g. the depressed guys contemplating suicide) or homicidal (e.g. elliot rodger). I truly resent the homicidal ones, i.e. those that feel like women "owe" them something (mainly sex and love), which they obviously don't. However, I can't say it's nice to be on the suicidal side either.  It's sad and funny at the same time considering that all it would take for me is just one woman somehow appreciate me positively. Although I guess that given my pathetic current state of mind, that wouldn't do it either. Sigh....
I love your voice. It's wonderfully husky and smoky as voice can be. Have you ever thought about making ASMR? Got shivers at 22:22.
Is that other voice... philosophy tube??? ARE YOU AND PHILOSOPHY TUBE?!!?!?!?!?....
I've said this time and time again, the best way to fight bigots is not to get angry or spend time trying to reason with them, it's to make them a caricature of themselves through humor and debunking of their argument. You have done this flawlessly and I am so glad I found your channel.
you're hilarious and delightful, gorgeous, and i love your whole aesthetic and the lighting! pure cinematography, ART
I can't stop liking you.  As I watch and like your videos, I imagine the Venn Diagrams of your audience and my other subscriptions' audiences.  They basically look like pairs of nuts, they might bounce against each other, but...unless something goes terribly wrong, they never overlap.  So, by all logic, I should not like your content.  But I can't not like it.  Resist!  Watch more Jordan Peterson and Sargon of Akkad!  I...can't...resist... well done.
Bottom line is this: There's many ways to look at reality. Incels put on certain colored glasses and see the world in a specific way. Their way of seeing reality does more harm than good-- it's a depressive world view. I look at the incel thing as a phase that some people go through. And, if there is a lesson in this phase for them, then it is kinda meta. It's that at ANY point in time we can adapt different world views. Some of those world views will harm us, while others will keep us trucking along.
I'm trying to find the names of the creepier songs used here, but no such luck thus far. The music listed I don't think uses it
Ah yes, return of the terf
every video you put out the more feminine you get and the harder my dick gets
I never thought people really wrote and thought such things as harming other people and so intensly and rape like it is nothing. It is scary that if you walk around the city a person could have such horrible thouths.
i love her voice, it's so smooth and suave
This person always manages to disgust me with it's promiscuous mindset to the point where I can even listen to the rest of it's drivel anymore. It probably fails to mention that this problem is an ENTIRELY American only problem and makes out that there are a lot of these people.
whaaaaaattt tthhheeee fuuuuu... This has explained a lot of references I didn't get in the past.  I ...guess its better to know.   ...ick.
The backgrounds and lighting are very slick, the powerpoint graphics between are rather clean, music during the serious parts and readings give off a real solid silent hill quality which was clever considering silent hill was all about mentally punishing your own psyche. But sometimes the music is just some weird doots and dees that just pull out of the interesting atmosphere a second ago. I'd love to see a video of you and Mumkey jones pull a video about Elliot Roger and Incels.
How have I not found this channel before? Great work.
Thank you for using that hebrides piece at the end. Plus,  very insightful video,  I've been wondering what the hell incels even where.
🤣 clap, clap, clap.
I thought hon was just short for honey?
The cherry on the cake result of watching this video for me is that I can no longer say "incels suck my tranny faggot dick" because it really seems that the ball is entirely in their court on the matter.
As a trans woman in her 20's who also spends a lot of time on the internet and thinks about this shit a lot: Your videos are literally a spiritual fucking experience. My face lights up when I see you've uploaded and I get to sit down for 30+ minutes figuratively bathing in every point you relay that has crossed my mind at some point but never fully articulated itself.   Also you're funny as hell lmao I fucking cackle at every one of your jokes  Keep up the awesome work ^_^ I really love your stuff!!!
Ok but I do love your analysis of tinder
As a non-virgin, I can say it feels amazing, especially the first few times
JUST heard Lindsay Ellis refer to your channel in her recent Q&A vid, and omg, you're my instant favorite person of the day.
Who is this incredible specimen of human (?) I have had the privilege to stumble across?
That ending was some hot shit
thank u for acknowledging the lesbians, lov u <3
Jordan Petersons gone full alt right these days.  He may have once been mildly helpful. Not anymore.
Bravo! ♥️♥️♥️
Wow,, oh man. I just started watching your videos and I had absolutely no idea that you were a trans woman.  Your voice and appearance reads as a woman.  As a trans man I am in absolute awe! All I want is to be able to pass as much as you.  Thank you for the videos, I can’t wait to see more content!
It took you saying “I’m a Trans Woman” for me to suspect you’re trans!  Woman, you look fiiiiiiiiiine!
Holy. $h*t. This video was _awesome_. Literally, it inspired awe. You could make a great career in filmography. It is so rare to find such quality videos on YouTube. A Shining Pearl in the Deep Salty Ocean. Wow.
I've watched all of your videos now. I have lost my purpose in life. Nothing left to do but LDAR, I guess (until the next video comes out, anyway).
I wonder how Alana feels about her community being taken over by angry heterosexual dudes. Like they don’t even let heterosexual women participate
Now, I could be wrong on all of this, but this is my personal experience as a regular guy in western society. Since I don't even know what statistics I would have to search for, I can only go with what I know: I find modern society to be extremely hypocritical. On the one hand you often hear how important sex is to mental health, how much you need it in your life, and how you'll end up a depressed weirdo when you're 50 without it. (Actual quote from someone) But on the other hand a lot of people treat you like human waste if you can't get a girlfriend and they tell you that you aren't entitled to sex, but also demonize things like sex dolls that (might) be able to help with some of the supposed mental problems. Personally, I don't really believe men go nuts if they can't find someone to stick their D into. I think men can go nuts due to the above mentioned double standard.  Hopefully this is just a weird phase where we are going from being very traditional as a society to a more open one where each of us can choose their own path without always being judged for being who we want to be.
so good. so so good. how?
Well, yeah, you are a degenerate. You're white, after all.
Is this a man?
I’m calling the ocean nothing but “mum” from now one
Ok I love you
Hey Contra! Love how much work you put into your videos and I always learn something new. Keep it up!
please leave the content warning on for longer, I didnt even have time to read "Content warning" before it left the screen lol
lol. thank you for consistently putting out breathtaking (literally, of laughter) and inventive content.  also really appreciate the way people such as yourself, Shaun, Strucci, etc... try to understand this phenomenae from a larger societal perspective, instead of taking the easy “point and laugh” approach most have come to accept. In a way, it’s exactly as counterproductive.. just hand-waving shit away you don’t understand or refuse to accept.
I really don't want to insult you or missgender you, but may I ask if you're a man or a woman ? I really can't make that difference, sorry. nevermind, you already explained that in the video.
thats a whole tranny right there
😂😂😂 god. This gave me a headache.
I fucking lost it at Chang and Chadpreet
It's not fair that I only just now get to find out about this channel
This is the first video I have watched of you and I had no idea you were trans. Ya great fam ya don’t need that skull surgery imo. But you do what you feel is right for you! Also love this video as a whole. Smashing that subscribe button.
This was such an intelligent, well thought out explanation of a "movement" I have found baffling. I will be 42 at the end of the month, so things have really changed in my lifetime. People would have to go out and meet face to face once upon a time, now people have pretty much forgone this method, choosing online forums instead. I definitely think that these forums are a double edged sword, on one hand you can meet people you probably never would in your day to day life, on the other hand there is such a high incidence of abusive, cruel behavior that most people wouldn't engage in face to face. The internet has brought the gibbering gremlin out to play for sure! I happened upon the whole incel/MGTOW thing accidentally on YouTube...I was HORRIFIED by the virulent hate on display in some of the vids and comments! I seriously wondered if some of these haters had body counts yet...no joke! You definitely opened my eyes to the self perpetuating sadness they wallow in..I loved the hearty dose of humor too, you're a cheeky girl :) I am subscribing, because I LOVE the way you speak from such a fresh angle that I haven't even considered...look forward to watching more of your vids =)
I am very impressed with this video. You did an amazing job of explaining the subject matter as well as some very deep insight into yourself and what you have faced transitioning and how it relates. This is the first video that i have watched of yours and found it to be very helpful and informative.  I have a friend that I have been a little concerned may be an incel and was researching ideas on how I could help when i stumbled across your video. You have given me alot of great information. I am only hoping that I can use this information to help him find an effective treatment path. thank you so very much and keep it up.
Oliver Thorn chadsplaining is my everything!
It is undeniable that women are degenerating, but so is everyone, so why would anyone expect women to somehow escape that fate? In fact, given that they are the weaker sex, it would make much more sense to expect them to degenerate more and faster than men, and to not even have a clue that they are degenerating (as opposed to quite a few men, who do); and that's precisely what we are seeing.
Well I find your skull very attractive.
First video I watch of you (1. what took me so long? ; 2. Thank you Lindsay Ellis! <3 )and, alright, you are absolutely amazing! <3
Girl, you did an excellent job and I am shook by your attention to detail and the alternation to a flickering light in 5:30                   ps. Yo overline game is stronk <3
Oh, I do the same with 9gag. Not because I want to confirm my world view, that men never will pass as women or vice-versa no matter the make-up, clothing, voice training etc. but to confirm that really hateful and disgusting people are out there and to proof to myself that a life under a lid is better than everything else. And 9gag is mild compared to 4chan.
Woman are tough work i have to waste the whole day chatting to 20+ bloody tinder matches just to get my root for the night.
The Virgin ContraPoints vs The Chad Blaire White
Surrender Transgender
"...ridiculous muppet falsetto..." You're wonderful!
I would have profited from a content warning. God that's a dark one.
this was so insightful!! and i thought phrenology had died out centuries ago! 😂😭
That intro...
*fEEEEEEMoooOOIIIIIdddssS*
wow
Wait a mf minute... FEMOIDS?!?!?! 🤣🤣🤣🤣 this shit has me rolling
When you title a video "incels", we expect the video to be about incels, not 50% incel terms that most people who know what incels are already know of, and 50% you complaining about people complaining about you being trans. That's great and all, but the people who clicked on the video aren't here for that shit. You should title the video something else
00:00 - 35:04 shaming language
I used to be a bread scientist, but I ended up baked myself. How's that for irony
You look like Winona Ryder omg!!!
Their bones are just oof’d & there’s nothing that can be done.  Oof’d from birth.
holy shit is that philosophytube
Hi. Liked your runthrough of the subjects at hand.... better than most from "your side of the fence" than ive seen. But ... why the frekk did you lump in MRAs with incels... thats rather.. well. its just not the same now is it.. Human rights are not something dellusional and extreme like incels. (kinda wanted to ask for the list of rights men have that women dont have  in the western world... but that would most likely lead to a list of precieved hardships and not actual rights... genital integrity anyone? ) Allso want to compliment you on your hair in this vid.  :) greetings from Norway. :)
Natalie ❤ That is one of the reasons why I always feel uncomfortable giving compliments to people who are especially self conscious... I am in a circle of friends who seem to try to be very honest with compliments and that helped me a lot. I and they will tell if they find something good looking but on the other hand we won't linger on the negative. If somebody asks me how something looks and it isn't my thing I would just say it looks ok. Because we shouldn't even make a big topic about this. And I know this might come off as a priviledged world view but it has honestly helped me not focus my depression on my body.  So if somebody is reading this. You look ok. Even if society says you don't. Just having you and your body is ok. And you have a right to be ok.
A long time ago I've watched some of your videos, but I haven't been watching your chanel for a long time. Youtube algorytm put your video as something that might interest me, and when I started to watching it I couldn't recognize you. You look beautiful. I thought that you were just a crossdresser, but now I see that this is serious, and by looking at you, one could not refer to you different than "she".
Is she always this good ?
Extremely well made video. Although I am not on board with a couple of points made, it is clear that you care about your content, the subject matter, the people you talk about and the art of conveying information. Top notch!
Weird. I've never heard about this group of people here in Germany. It looks like they're nonexistent. Maybe I should go out more tho :)
I’m not a incel but Tinder is trash lol
You being trans makes me uncomfortable. Am i transphobic
I think the Red Pill is less about straight-up hypergamy and more about the notion that men have their own particular problems in society which aren't really given much attention (which, well, isn't *entirely* untrue). Other than that, great video. Both funny and sort of sad, as one might expect from the subject matter.  Oh, but sadly, nor sea nor thunderstorm has a dick. *sigh*
Tl;dw: Incels are like Marx, they made the right observations but draw the wrong conclusion.
I felt physically sick listening to 【ＩＭＡＧＩＮＥ　ＨＯＷ　Ａ　ＷＯＭＡＮ　ＦＥＥＬＳ】
I literally hate to make public comments, but I feel compelled.  Somehow this was suggested from watching an old Death Grips music video, then I got hooked. This video is definitely the best commentary I've ever seen on the phenomenon of the internet incel community(ies) and its worldview.  Particularly because, as reprehensible as the ultimate conclusion of this worldview is, it is important to remember that such communities are populated by people and no one (or at least *extremely* few) come to such vile conclusions because they're inherently flawed or evil.  Rather, it's a trail of breadcrumbs, where each crumb is a nugget of delicious self-loathing and/or shifting blame.  This video is probably the first depiction that I've ever seen that clearly states both the problematic/repugnant nature of the community with empathy of how someone could go so far astray.  One small critique:  The host (I say this like its not a personally maintained channel) mentions the thrill of politically incorrect speech as a motivator for initiates of these communities, but I disagree.  I think it is primarily the arrogance of confirmation bias.  Particularly, that by recognizing and embracing a reality where one is (for an unwillingness to look up a better word) unfuckable, that it gives power to the perceived predicament.  To pile onto the cutters' analogy, they turn their own (nurtured) celibacy into a blade to cut into their respective egos, and hold the pain as truth.  Which is ultimately where the analysis goes in the video so maybe I got too tripped up on an ultimately small point.  TL;DR:  I literally hate to make public comments.  That's the important part.
Those people need a hobby. And a dick in the ass.
this was so pleasing to listen to, finally something good in recommended
I just stumbled onto you today. Good stuff :D
i do not think you should transition.
You have such an interesting perspective on things! Definitely subbing
how are incels real in a capitalist state? if you’re really desperate for sex, just work hard, make money, pay for sex. dumbass self-pity driven misogynists couldn’t figure out that most jobs don’t require you to be attractive and that money buys everything in this country.
Great video!
did these guys not get enough hugs in kindergarten or something ..?
Please never use that beep sound again. Ever.
Holy hell what a video. Came here from Lindsay Ellis. Fascinating. My only point is remember tp be safe in and around the ocean people. No more drownings
I cant watch this after seeing adam neely commented.
you're very smart & this video taught me a lot in a short amount of time. glad I found your channel!
Wow. I'm a young trans man and your comments about digital self-harm really hit home. I explore transphobes' blogs a lot "just to see what they're saying," "just so I can be well-informed," all of the stuff you said. But I always feel like shit afterwards, and I'm well aware of that fact, but I figure "Well, it was worth it because now I've blocked them. Sometimes I scrolled through their blogs for way, way too long before blocking them, but I blocked them."  Their vocabulary totally does get in your head, too. Um, anyway, I think I'm going to stop doing that now. Thank you for pointing out in your video exactly what it was that I was doing.
Is it just me or does it feel like ContraPoints made this with the secret intention to convert us into following a unknown Great Old One in the sea? IDK could just be a active imagination.
You have forgot to add to your music list the Lute suite by Bach :(
Fantastic video.
Why do i still get on to /tttt/
Who said what about the Huns now?
I think "Volcel if you wouldn't" is probably the best preemptive comeback I've ever heard.
I don’t know if you care but this internet rando honestly thought you were a woman until you said you’re trans. Great video, you’re doing god’s work by looking at this depravity so we don’t have to (although I did dip my toe in the pool at one point until some subconscious part of me that is still human said ‘NO MORE.’)
I think I'm in love with you, thank you YouTube
It's not the video I wanted to watch. But the video I needed to watch.
Please come to the Edinburgh Festival next year.
Brilliantly done, respect :)
Ma'am, you are a genius. See, it all comes down to the skull (what is inside at least)
So... tinder is not friendly for trans woman like us.
Whoa, okay so I first saw this video and I had absolutely no clue you were transsexual, and because of this video I watched all of your other videos and coming back to this one is crazy, seeing how much you changed and how much it must mean to you I just feel really proud and happy like good job for real
yeah but hypergamy doesn't care. The top 80% of women attract to the top 20% of men. The top 20% are banging all the women.
I dont think you need to change your eyebrows your face is fine. This is gonna sound rude as fuck. But i ONLY questioned if you're trans when i heard your voice. As a trans man I'm terrified of my voice being too high or something so i hope this isnt too hurtful for you ;-;
my jaw dropped for that first part lol
JESUS CHRIST this fucking video is amazing. Flawless, actually. It's incredibly rare to strike such a delicate balance of emotion and reason when dealing with bigotry.  How the hell have I not heard the term masochistic epistemolegy before? Basically defines the entirety of my struggles with anxiety.  I don't know what it says about me that I'm straightwhitecismale and I tend to just blame my lack of intimate relationships on the absence of meaning in existence. But I'm confident it's a decent set of steps above misogyny and self-hatred.  This is a YouTube comments section holy shit. I'm like blogging in the YouTube comments section. This video has got me in a mood too good for internet standards. Fuck you I can do what I want. You didn't have to read this far. I'm fucking ecstatic.  The eroticism of shoegaze and architecture has me fucking THRILLED friend.
You have very feminine features and I am a cis gender woman with a large head and I am now super worried I look like man in drag. As before I just thought I will never be a hat person.
I see a lot of logical fallacy overlap with incels and postmodernist feminists.  Same terrible ideas on a slightly different axis. - All men/women are the horrible other half of humanity - Men/women are ruled by (insert invisible historical pervasive force here.) - Both are nihilists. - Power is all that matters.  (But we aren't megalomaniacs... really... we aren't...) - Genetics are everything/nothing - Both aren't completely and unadulteratedly racist... (in our own rulebooks.) - As long as (women willingly choose men/trump is president) life is horrible! - Steps of the black pill / post modernist theory takes the same amount of ridiculous logical leaps. - Both are their own worst enemies. - Both need better parenting. - Believe in their teens, 20's or 30's they know all about life and how everything works. - Both rile themselves up to justify violence. - Both often believe "We need to burn it all down and start over." - As a <insert personal identity here> you can never understand me... because... human empathy doesn't exist, and method acting isn't possible, and yeah...  So I won't listen. - Science is king! (Except when it doesn't benefit us, then we love confirmation bias!) - Both engage with in group talking about how terrible they have it (when they really don't.)  And their group justifies their screwed up representations.  I hope the lesson for both groups is don't continue any of this garbage.
"I want to attempt to understand them"  *proceeds to "debunk" the concept of objective attractiveness* *uses feminist lens to interpret things* *takes seriously the tongue-in-cheek nature of the language used in the community*  Someone who thinks gender is on a spectrum should be the last person you should listen to about what drives people biologically. These people think that objective standards of beauty are a product of socialization. Make no mistake, the New Left may be taking a new angle but making attempts at comedy, but they're no less full of shit than the screaming flailing blue-haired.
what is the problematic thing at around 18:47?
Oh my god the manosphere exists because rock n' roll is dead! It make so much sense now.
The humor made me laugh until I got washboard abs and happy tears spilled out. Thanks for that. Your video was better than coffee. I also learned a lot about that word I didn't know from FB feeds. Still, my shoulders slump as I reckon that such categories could only arise in a world with an almost ubiquitous internet shimmering wantonly from devices in a huge number of people's pockets and bags. And geezer pines for simpler times. P.S. Did I hear the voice of philosophy tube?
This is gold 😂
In my defense, my catastrophizing is usually accurate to what actually occurs. I've asked about 23-4 women out in my life. Every single one a rejection. My ex asked ME out, but that was never real. Can't really call an online relationship that only I actually gave a shit about real. She rebounded in a single month. I got rejected 2 more times. Fuck me for wasting my time and giving myself a panic attack over thinking I was deserving of any happiness ever though.
Sharp wit aside, your instinctive empathy toward these people is the height of feminine beauty. Thank you for making this video.
this is a fantastic video
This is the first video of yours I've seen. You're kind of like a more polished Internet Comment Etiquette. Not sure how I got here but...yea...I subbed.
I don’t hate incels. I don’t need to, because they already hate themselves. They hate themselves so much and they tried to have this support group. But it turns out a bunch of depressed people with nobody to guide them makes for a shitty support group. In actuality they recommend suicide thinking it’s the best option. Most of them are socially awkward kids who don’t know how to interact with people. As a result they come off as creepy and people bully them. They get depressed and hate themselves. They see all the popular kids and they think the one thing that would help them become popular is getting a girlfriend. And they can’t because they’re kinda creepy. And so they hate women and they hate everybody but most of all they hate themselves.
wait no fair you used cheat codes
Lady I can only get so hard stop talking about natural phenomena.
this is so good
"your skeleton is too small" a new sick burn added has been added to the collective database
That quoted post made me take a vow of celibacy. Sex is gross. Thanks for showing me how gross sex is, incels.
The fact that a film created by a pair of transwomen has become a Bible/ideology for the manosphere BS, feels like a crime and I didn't even like The Matrix.
Yo i dont watch your stuff but you were in a vid with Destiny, your voice sounds like youve put a lot of effort into it, impressive. Props
kek?
My life, my love, and my lady is the sea.
The sentence "At least these pricks care enough about my pussy to be an asshole about my dick." is required to be on a plaque somewhere. I've never laughed harder in my life.
I didn't even notice your brow ridge (maybe it's the lighting) but have you had any other facial surgery? You totally passed to me until you brought up you being trans in the video 😮 Edit: my wording implies you didn't pass after that, you still do. You're fucking beautiful and tbh I strive to be that pretty
*swipes right* <3
everything on that red-pill part is true,tinder and other relationship statistics prove it. Of course a woman go try to debunk it.
LOL Jordan Peterson is sexist...you are like left wing Transgender Alex Jones.
I’m legit cumming
I appreciate you trying to explain this to people, but I have some issues with your explanation of "red pill theory" as most people who use the term "Red Pill" aren't using it to identify the same ideas.   MGTOW who are voluntarily celibate are doing it wrong, as MGTOW should not be a permanent state. It is a temporary state where one works on oneself and ones self esteem, until they have engage in a healthy relationship where they are equal partners who have mutual respect with a partner who isn't using you.
this is the first time I seen one of your videos and It did not even cross my mind that your trans until you mentioned it.
I BAKE MY OWN BREAD.  YES I AM OUTING MYSELF AS SOMEONE WHO LIKES TO COOK.    I A M N O T A W O M A N
I don't know if you're transexual or a crossdresser. For laughs or serious. I can't tell who you hate more because whenever you insult someone I think I've got it locked until you shit on everyone else. The videos look aesthetically obnoxious and frankly, stupid, which at a glance I'd have guessed you are but your points hit like something with chest hair and I'm far too fucking dumb to understand half the crap I'm hearing, which saddens me more than it should.  Fuck this emotional rollercoaster of a channel I'm leaving.
For some reason I can't tell if you are a woman or a really convincing trap. Must be the voice being unconventional for a woman. Or maybe I'm tripping balls Edit: oh, right, got to the part where you said you were trans. Oops.
Not sure if the last part of this video will be taken well. It might be interpreted as literal by the *inceloids* .
While I agree with the bulk of the video, there are a few things that I either disagree with or think need to be looked at closer.   The first is that it is my belief that there are two types of Incels. The "incels" and the incels™. The latter being the ones discussed in the video. The former being those that fit all of the criteria of being an incel™ but don't believe in the incel™ mindset or hatred they seem to fester in. It is my belief that those that are "incel" vastly outnumber the incel™ that is seen and displayed in this video. People that fall into this former "incel" crowd may have fears related to being falsely accused of something and don't take any risk. Some of these fears are somewhat grounded especially in the aftereffects of many false rape cases that were proven false in court where the lives of those falsely accused were absolutely destroyed despite being proven innocent. I'll close this opening paragraph with this, "why risk it?"  The second is the 80/20 Rule. Now, while I think it is ridiculous that this happens on a majority scale, in your own video show that image of hypergamy you'll see a few icons of some dating sites listed up there. It actually shows that the 80/20 Rule does take effect primarily on dating sites. The thing with this is that I think it needs to be examined further, mainly as we see more relationships forming more online versus in person and starting through an app or website and is projected to increase in future years. This, of course, does throw up a few red flags for the future if this trend that is seen and observed on dating sites where men are rated more harshly than women in the looks department by the opposite sex. These results are shown in that OKCupid study they did a while back. You did point this out in the Tinder section, but I figured that this should at least be brought up for specifically other dating sites outside of Tinder.   The third and final thing that I wanted to at least bring up are the disabled types. This is one that I think needs to at least be addressed. Think for one moment, and I mean one if you were perfectly normal one moment and you got in some kind of accident. It doesn't matter what kind, but it leaves you paralyzed from the neck down. Wouldn't these types of people be considered "incels" (please note the difference noted above)? Of course, that's catastrophic thinking, but it does make you think about it for a moment.   This last little part does out to all the actual Incels out there, the ones that are described in this video. If you by chance see this: get help. I mean it. Go to your father or father figure (grandpa if needed). Trust me, they've more than likely been in the same situation as you before and will at least be able to get you started on the right track. For those that have access to it, go speak to a counselor or therapist. They may be able to give you some ideas or exercises to get you to meet women (or men if you're one of the unicorns of the Incel community, a woman) that have similar hobbies and interests that you do locally so you don't have to rely on trash dating apps that do screw you over. Of course, this is coming from some unknown guy with a fucking sandwich as his avatar image, but at least take the sentiment to heart at least.
I think that the black pill is "learned hopelessness" rather than catastrophization.
*was that last part just a nice way of suggesting they jump into the ocean and kill themselves?*
so how can we help these young guys?  and get them out of this negative spiral?
I love how youre styling your hair recently, it looks pretty
this is the most entertaining and informative video on this subject. plus got some genuine laughs. love it, keep it up!
Thank you so much for that intro. It made my night! Your videos are so fantastically well done.
I'm not an incel but I feel bad for all of them
I think that the idea of seeking out anxiety inducing comments comes from our need to "see" our dangers/enemies/predators. When you see a hurtful comment it's like seeing the monster under your bed; you always SUSPECTED it was there, and you never felt truly safe. Then when you finally see it there's a rush of adrenaline, but also a sense of relief. You've tracked it down and you're facing it head on. It's truly thrilling, and completely addictive, because if the monster under your bed is real, then the one in your wardrobe might be... And the one in the corner, and behind the curtain, etc. Etc.
The discussion of Tinder and ".........can we get coffee first?" had me laughing pretty hard. This was a really interesting watch. I'm looking forward to watching your other videos :)
The majority of the incel community are trolling, I’m sorry that you got baited...
Make an ASMR account and double your subscribers.  You won't though because you know I'm right!
“5th base: anal” made me laugh so hard after being hit with such dark shit from the digital self harm part... I love all of your videos and I’ve only seen one.
I'd normally avoid topics like this, they're almost always full of venom and generally schismatic; but I was pleasantly surprised at how objective you are, really enjoyed the video and learned a lot. Thanks for the video, but more importantly thank you for being a voice of reason. So many people dehumanize each other and it's so nice to find somebody who can talk about groups such as incels like they're human beings. I'm beginning to think Ted Kaczynski was right.  PS. the Marie Antoinette look really suits you
the only inaccuracy in this video is the “eroticism of the sea” THAT SHITS SCARY. SALT WATER MAKES MY DICC soft
dang i wasnt sure if you were trans or not until you said it but you make a really good woman
ContraPoints is from the DMV? eyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyy~
15:20 I’m not sure I would want to see Jordan Peterson in his capacity as a clinical psychologist if I was transgender or an InCel though. I am not a qualified expert. But I am taking a look at a collaborative paper he contributed on about ”Psychological Entropy”. An excerpt from this paper gives me concerns: -  “There is growing evidence that the goals adopted by an individual serve to bias both perception and action in line with goal-relevant information and behavioral options...   ... A similar notion is emphasized by clinical psychologists who attempt to help their clients move beyond the narrow horizons provided by maladaptive goals that are difficult or impossible to achieve... ”  I mean it depends what you classify as ‘maladaptive’? Also this may seem like a criticism of bias in pursuit of a person’s goal, but this is in the context of paper that also says that “psychological Entropy” is reduced if decisions are made by not considering all options equally – i.e. that certain options, in reference to a person’s goals, should be “weighted” – again, weighted how exactly?  It’s a bit of a leap to say this perhaps. But the brains of schizophrenic people (not the paranoid kind necessarily) – with the excess trimming of neural tissue the conditions causes (i.e. reduction of gray matter and destruction of complex neural networks) – technical have “low entropy”…     Perhaps you could say, people with schizophrenia have “low psychological entropy”.   Sigh. Yeh. Why am I doing this?
My advice to  incels is find a hobby and keep busy. focus on yourself, work and your hobbies.
I just never know what to say to people on online dating sites. It all feels too fake or vague or unnecessary.
*sighs* ... Really? You couldn't make it through your first section without taking a mocking term? Do NOT pretend to be neutral if you're going to begin insulting the subject of your video. Go whole hog and just ruthlessly gut your target or go the fuck home and leave them alone. Don't half ass it. Don't sugar coat it. Go for the throat and rip it out. And for the sake of all fucks given... DO NOT CLAIM NEUTRALITY IF YOU ARE NOT NEUTRAL.
This. Is. AMAZING.
This was awesome
I subscribed REAL QUICK
i dont know who you are but i love your videos and im selling my soul to you by subbing
I’m totally a masculine baker. I bake because it’s scientific. I also like makeup and dresses because they were made using science in factories which were built by big men with big muscles. I’m masculine and straight as hell.
I found the complete avoidance of the scientific data and sociological studies that a lot of incels base their opinions/arguments on a bit dishonest. With that said, I understand the point of the video and find it very refreshing to not hear about incels from someone who's either demonizing them or defending them at all costs, even though it's still from a biased perspective.
The tinder part, I never take for granted that they like my online personality.
bread scientist
i know im just a stranger on the internet but honestly, i think you look absolutely beautiful! i think your bone structure is perfect the way it is.
You are truly gorgeous, if you ever move to London...
all false
Would love to hear your perspective on Ben Sharpiro.
the initial narration is hilarious
Also the trans stuff is sad... People need to stop being cunts to people who have insecurities and dysphoria
Did anybody really listen to this 35min boring blabbering.. she only got away with this because she's a woman, and she looks a bit trannish anyway(which is fine), but the boring bit is the main issue here.  The brief entertaining parts were the diagrams of chad and stacey.  EDIT (Just watched the whole video, it's ok,  and another video on decrypting the alt-right that was amazing, this contra person is a genius doing some great work, though not nearly as good as his past work where he talked like a normal person and didn't try to entertain children https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KEZKIV8TzuM )
great self esteem deflation and hypermasculinity/hyperfemininity hierarchy points. I see the true highlight salute  aquaphilia. I when i'm around hydrogen meeting oxygen,I get so damn moist. You are the first youtuber to make me laugh to tears. Great more sexy water. seriously I love  your work. Glad I fell in the rabbit hole   of your videos
Always remember that I keep saying I don't even think that all Strippers are evil because I'm disabled and a few have given me pity pep talk/sex plus statistically there not "all" going to be. They literally aren't all the same even body wise, all variety of races, ethnicities, nationalities, and sub cultures exist in strip clubs. I know my good looks help but its frustrating to keep stating I'm a gentleman in the club to these slut shaming misogynist Christians but yet they hold the outrageously ridiculous idea that no woman/girl ever spoke to me even casually just for being disabled.
In his baking confession Roosh is wearing a shirt that i also have and it made me feel dirty...i liked that shirt, its one of my only non black shirts, my life is falling apart !
This Incel stuff goes deeper than I thought...
Crazy production value. Subbed.
No offence, but if you'd engaged with the academic research on female hetero mate choice, read carefully that leads to the same general beliefs about human sexuality as the 'blackpill' does. You don't even need to go on incel forums to find all this out, just a few hours on Google Scholar. The incels happen to be mostly right about the way things work between men and women. I can link you some stuff if you want.
hottest trap besides blair imo
Jordan Peterson: professional hopecel
the term part KILLED ME LMAO
It's insane that they blame hyper-gamous women for ruining this perfectly-distributed alignment.  Rather than blaming the chads.  A more aligned or equal distribution would be most easily achieved through maximizing women's rights whilst minimizing male polygyny.  This is important also because status, and not skull shspe, is what likely determines chadship in real life. Thus, we can assume the ruling class males are basically able to control the entire system and culture of society's sexuality.  Essentially bourgeois cultural hegemony.   So naturally,  the logical thing for incels to do, in their group self-interest, is try to prevent men with power from imposing social darwinist and misogynistic sexual culture.
haha holy fuck the first one actually made me cry pure  s a t i s f a c t i o n   a n d   p e a c e
holy shit you're amazing
shaun shows up at 1:26 for anyone looking
"The Becky" "The Stacy" But... of those drawings.... the Becky actually looks like a human person....
Insightful and hilarious as usual.
This is hillarious.   I am a 48 year old overweight, man with a receding hairline.   I get laid plenty.
chad-splaining! ha!
"Femoids" sounds like some 60s B-Movie. With laser tiddies and shit...
Werner Von Braun needs to go back to Germany.
I have so many questions for just how...convoluted these dudes are, but I can't even attempt to get into any of them lmao If only these boys would go outside and like...try and be open to other people and humanity in general they might just find someone! Good lorddd
I wonder how they would react if they found out jawline exercises exist.
With so many people only reviewing the reddit, this is a totally new approach.  It was so well put together and actually shed a lot of light on the problem, made me understand it much better. First video of yours I've ever seen until now and I'm already in love!  Plus I need to add this, you're fucking gorgeous. Your intelligence? Damn. Your look? Damn.
You and Erik comment etiquette should colab
There are female incels (https://quillette.com/2018/07/18/i-was-a-female-incel/ ) Just wanted to link this
alright, so i'm kind of a "progressive incel", i guess? basically, i'm everything your typical incel is, -all the women hating. i know i'm worthless, but i don't blame girls not wanting to go out with me. hell; i get it! if you knew me, you would understand. but yeah, i do still want to kill myself.
Here I was misinformed that MGTOW was a gay thing. Like guys so misogynistic that they give up on women, yes, but why not try fucking men at that point? You've got lots of lonely ones right there, right?
I'm so glad I found your channel. This video was recommended to me and I never went back.
There's something incredibly hypocritical about a transgender person making fun of people who aren't happy with the bodies they're born with.
Haha awesome videos.  Most Pick Up Artists don't say women are unlovable.  We just say to get good at picking up women in general, so that you can easily get a girlfriend (rather than stalking and pining over a specific girl and creeping her out).  Most PUA's are pro ACTUAL feminism, just don't like some of the more modern variations that are meant to separate men and women against each other.  If you want to understand Incels you could read books like "Power VS Force" or "Levels Of Energy" that talk about people who are stuck in a low vibration state. They could evolve out of it if they decided to, but most lack the proactive awareness.  Also please don't call Jordan Peterson a sexist old man because IMO that degrades real cases of sexism, but I understand what you were generally trying to say.  Your perspective as having lived as both genders in dating is really interesting.  I'll check out your other vids, thanks for posting! -Tyler
>ricecel >currycel  fking lost
First video I've seen from you, but you are amazing!
Nice video, but I couldnt deal with the sea thing. I'm not that into water.
The Queen of A E S T H E T I C  🙏🙏🙏
Weird i have aspergers never had this issue  But being single  sucks
As a trancel, I want to be offended by this video, but I can't. I honestly can't. This video is so hilarious, that I actually enjoyed it.
you look and sound like a tranyyye
I haven't seen a better, more compassionate, and more on-point video on incels.  I used to do the online dating thing. One thing I would do is "scope out the competition" by making a female account on dating sites to see what it's like for women on the site. In my experience, the male to female ratio of most dating sites is around 30 to 1. Every woman on a dating site gets to choose between 30 different guys.  I eventually figured out that men have to distinguish themselves, rise above the pack, to get any success on dating sites. Simply saying "hi," "hey," or "sup?" will get you nowhere because each woman is probably getting a minimum of 29 other men sending them messages too.  The trouble is: this is really hard. It requires creativity, the willingness to put yourself out there, you can't be desperate or thirsty, but you have to take it somewhat seriously as well. You also can't be creepy in any way, if you give off those creep vibes you're done for.  Why such an imbalance? I think the biggest reason is that most dating sites are designed, built, and operated by men. They've created an environment that's comfortable for men, but not at all comfortable for women. I also suspect that there's the cultural issue of women being actively and forcefully discouraged from "making moves" on men. Signing up for a dating site is, in many respects, being way more forward than we allow women to be, and I'm sure many women don't feel comfortable putting themselves out there like that. If there are 30 men for every woman on most sites, then it's obvious that men are far more likely to resort to dating sites. Women don't often get to that point, or they aren't given the opportunity to get to that point. I imagine many women from religious and/or conservative families, who have male members of their families acting as sexual gatekeepers, aren't going to be using dating sites very often.  Online dating isn't a panacea. In fact, I'd argue that online dating can be depressing, discouraging, and lead to a reduced sense of self worth. I think the very best thing a man can do is focus on hobbies and activities that interest them. Choose some that get you out of the house and meeting new people, try things you'd never think to try, do volunteer work that requires you to interact with people and requires you to be somewhat selfless, try out non-traditional sports, don't do things like sit around playing WoW for 8 hours a day. If you gain a genuine passion for something , that'll shine through and make you more attractive to the people you find attractive.  I think the best way to think about online dating sites is as one of your dating tools, not the be all and end all. Plus, I imagine profiles look more impressive when you can augment it with stuff you do outside and offline.
If you use to be a man then that explains the intelligence. If not, good on you, you're a real gem. The subtext here is that women are stupid, lul. *Edit:* Yup, that explains it.
Aight, this is... pretty fair. In fact the fairest bit of reporting done on Incel's I've come across yet.  Have a sub.
Just discovered your channel. The confidence and charm you show is almost inappropriate for the topic you present. In other words, I love your video, but I think I'm gonna need a sui line, coz I had no idea people like this exist, and in such numbers. Which brings me to the question, what's the music you used at 7:26?
CLEAN YOUR ROOM
I just had to sub.   I'm a woman and if there is something ive done unconsciously is go to those forums, and also read stuff that is just this incel-like complete hatred of women every time, even thought i knew i wouldnt represent their stupid stereotypes of women (they literally don't see us as humans, just fuck holes) and that i felt terrible every time i read those...  Reading a large group of men is building this kind of "cult" that just focuses on farming a sick hate towards us is freaking scary, because you can algo go and think "these are just a bunch of losers on the internet" but then, you could also realize these are pretty average looking guys (heck, even for my eyes some were cute...) and any of them could be literally any guy around me. So it's like I'd read these forums to remind myself you're never too cautious, and it's ok to stay paranoid and scared (which, and you can guess... hurt my psyche pretty badly at the time).   It is scary to know someone wants to harm me just for my sex. It is painful to know that getting prettier for yourself can make one of these resentful freaks just want to hurt you, watch you suffer or kill you. To the point I spent most of my teens doing the exact opposite most girls do, and try to look repulsive. That was like a way I'd feel "protected".  I've always been a person who's had tried to not fall for this idiotic radical feminist thought that what all men want is sex, and use us for sex, etc. There are women who are assholes too, I know... but making these totalitarian statements make me sick.   Anyway, it's not like it's wise to ignore dangerous people like this exist, but one shouldn't forget there is also actually wonderful people around.   BTW you're fucking gorgeous and I loved this video.  Have a nice day.
Fantastic video, but why are you sexually attracted to water?
Sui-Fuel ? thats horrible
This is the best incel video I've ever seen, and I've seen a lot.  Also, you're really pretty and I didn't know you were trans (cishet woman).
This was actually kinda depressing. :/
Thank you for the video, dark mother :)
My sega gamegear has given me a prophecy of the future and it can go one of two ways 1.Prostitution is legalized in a manner that emphasizes consent and safety for sex workers. Incels who want to experience sex and are not yet completely enveloped by this ideology (and there are a lot on the fringes, who aren't super deep into it but are at risk of becoming so) can go to a brothel, get laid, maybe travel around a bit and do some acid, gain perspective on life and lose this toxic ideology. Maybe convert their anger and energy into something productive instead of feeling hopeless all the time.  2.Mass conversion of Incels to Islam.  It's really a match made in hell if you think about it. Horny men believing stupid shit that doesn't exist, longing for a sense of traditionalism that does not exist.  We could see some serious shit. Feminism becomes illegal, Talibanization of America and worst of all. Islamic Duke Nukem Forever 2.  Your video adds to the effort of pushing us more toward the first outcome. Thumbs up.
Anyone else oddly turned on by the end? That's how words should be arranged.
I stumbled upon this and had to do a double take. Thought I was watching a National Geographic documentary. Beautifully done.
why are you so perfect? asking for a friend
I just found your channel and didn't realise you are trans until you mentioned it. You're stunning x
Talk about bone structure? AHH SHIT YEAH BONES!
You are brilliant ! The deepest love is the love of life, the love of nature. It's that primal connection that allows us to love ourselves and our human companions.  Nurture that connection and all else falls in place.   Rock on you courageous soul.
I saw a link to this on r/inceltears and I'm living for this
thanks youtube for recommending this video i like this
You know most guys aren’t like Mac from always sunny. Most dudes who like trans girls want you to keep your dick. That’s why they ask you that. As a guy who does that that’s why.
"Bread Scientist" I'm losing it.
ROCK AND ROLL IS NOT DEAD  *weeps quietly*
Your divulgence of your near obssession with researching or seeking self disparagement was actual an incredibly refreshing and enlightening perspective on which to view the incel culture, rather than the typical outside, mainstream mass news view of discussing it as a weird cult. As you point out, it really is a weird and dark cult but the reasons for entering it are surprisingly relevant and possible even for the average person given the wrong conditions. As you show, entering into a socially uncomfortable phase of life can be a catalyst for this spiral of reinforcing self-loathing, but your break-out and especially your outside look-in to your own experience is actually extremely interesting and I look forward to seeing the rest of your content! For the record though, I had no idea until the trans-culture discussion segement of the video that you had at any point not been a women, and I hope that helps to dispel anyone's view of you as any kind of 'hon' that bit more.
Your videos are so damn good. They blow me away every time.
Your advice came down to 'you're not good enought'.
catastrophizing. Interesting.
I REALLY miss Nykytyne. I couldn't even finish this frivolous Dictonary Of Sex Slang. You have exchanged Gonzo vlogging for twaddle and tripe.  With all of history and satire at your disposal you come up with THIS ?
Man, I love fucking the sea.
holy shit the inherent eroticism of the sea
I want them to get the help they need and I want to sympathize with them, but honestly it’s so hard to feel bad for a group of people who basically see me by definition as something less than human and deserving of rape and torture for the crime of just being female. :/
I... am very gay for you  But all bisexual lusting aside, I'm glad you talked about icels like this. As it stands, right now, the community itself needs to get out of their echo chamber and try the world again without prejudice. While the violent women hating is causing the most havoc for them in the outside world, it's being in that bubble that's hurting them more. Here's to hoping a lovely transwoman like yourself made a difference to them.
Why not just keep the dick and be a chick with a dick? Attitudes toward that kinda thing are changing.
Incels - proof the invention of the internet was a bad idea.
I get a feeling like you and Poseidon would have some truly morally questionable sex
Your videos are fucking great lmfao. There's so much good shit about it, the humour, the skull thing, you being so honest about your past experiences, making that masochistic epistemological click, the british/victorian thing lmao, how one can go from sadly relating to full "ok but what the fuck are these people thinking". Every time i watch some of your videos i realize im just like 5 steps away from being fully batshit crazy from some fuckin online forum/youtube comment section/subreddit, and i have fun and entertainment while also being fucking blown away psychologically and existentially by it.   I am afraid of one thing though, because I knew you from that Jordan Peterson video, because even though i was skeptical and not down with some of the shit he said, i did find his lectures (i know, every non-antifeminist or whatever JBP "fan" says this but still) very interesting, and certainly insightful, but then i stopped caring and your video fuckin roasted him so hard i have a hard time rewatching his shit because im afraid of actually being mindblown, and i dont want to find about a "Contra-Contrapoints" that will fucking blow my mind away so hard ill have to keep myself from watching your videos lmao
I love you and peter coffins got it right because you really do just keep putting out your best videos every time you post. Thank you!
Incels are just like any other group who broadly generalizes entire groups of people based on anecdotal experiences - insolated and ignorant. Each and every woman, just like every man, is a unique individual, not some monolith. My husband has a hand disability stemming from his grandfather's service in the Vietnam War, yet has never had problems getting laid and I love him no less because life dealt him a shitty hand. Fuck incels.
F_a_g_g_o_t_s
You really went down the rabbit hole for this one!
I just wanna say now that I actually finished the video: I love it. a question tho: rock n roll seems to be pretty dead. why is that and why can't it be reborn? is it a generation thing? I'm in my late 20s and I had a stratocaster in my bedroom in the late 90s and I wish I could feel the rock n roll still kickin. it's kind of missing that grandparent you never really met because they died before you were born, but you know he was such an awesome person you wish you did and all you have now are others people's stories about how awesome they were. pretty sad. almost as sad as being an incel, but not quite, ha.
I'm the ultimate chad.
Brillaint.
Never watched you before, this is great. Subbed. Also you look like a sexy young Winona Ryder and I'm a straight male
Legalize prostitution?
Has Incelophobia been coined yet?
chad-splaining?
Jordan Petersons popularity makes sense. And honestly its better incels come across his work rather than continuing to justify awful beliefs and behaviors because of the "black pill"
A very Hamlet-esque video
@23:43 it's because they are Today's version of Emos: Suicidal, self-loathing, World Hating, Morons.
I'd like to live in Baltimore now for some reason...
Ok but the perfume part was cute, after that I wanted to jump
I've been getting into true crime the past couple years, and I noticed that it's VERY common for seriel killers and people with varying degrees of psycopathy get married and maintain an outwardly normal life and family appearance. Granted, they could be creating covers, a sort of social camouflage but they fact remains; horrible people like Gacy, Fish and Kuclinksky had wives, children homes money....and just fucking Google any of those people.  Incels and their community is the poison that ruin their lives and world view. You laid that out wonderfully in this video.
Celibacy is a choice.  The inability to do something is not the same as the unwillingness. Being vegetarian is a choice. You aren't vegetarian if the prison holding you won't feed you meat. Your captors may have put you on a vegetarian diet, but that is not the same as being vegetarian.  Being vegetarian is *choosing* to not eat meat.   Celibacy is also about not getting married, not about not having sex.  That's called abstinence.
I don't understand why content creator cares about what incels think lmfao. Those queers are hilarious.
I half agree with red pillers. But only half. They're almost as pathetic for believing feminists are a threat to manliness.
Opening is top kek
how insecure do you have to be to justify baking some bread as a scientific thing because you are ultra masculine and men love science lol what the fuck, this is sad af
You make a hot woman :)
"rock and roll is basically dead" Me, a necromancer: is it now?
Sad that a lot of peopel who don't associate themselves with incels, are in fact: incels.
i never got powsi
I NEED TO GO FUCK THE OCEAN!  Also, you are now my favorite Youtube creator.
Omg I love you. Your videos are so hopeful, inspiring and genuinely funny. Also it's great to see your transition for people that have doubts such as myself. I'm definitely sharing your channel.
I clicked because you're hot, I stayed and learned a lot. hmu on tinder, pls thx
This is bullshit.      The rain doesn't reach between my ass cheeks
"I am ultra masculine, as you can see" Nothing screams masculinity like having to repeatedly affirm yourself that you're masculine whenever you do anything society has considered non-masculine at any point in the last let's say three thousand years.
Stumbled across in my recs. These vids are great, not just in production but also entertaining as eff. Suuuuubscribed.
I subscribed almost violently <3
TIL Werner von Braun - a misogynist *and* a Nazi.   The more things change...
Interesting game Chad? Considering lesser capacity not allow me recall female definition of Chad. Communities try filter individuals into community #stemcell social #science #MENatWORK grab mate drag in cave #delusional theory
Bread scientist doth protest too much.
I lost my shit at every single "feeeeeeemoid." thank you.
fooling no one with that voice, you are a MAN !
I'm gonna get "CHAD CIRCUMFERENCE" tattooed above my dick, GG no re.
I'mma keep it real with you chief.... I uh dont look at the sea in that kinda way.
1975?! Are you sure you're not secretly a succubus?
If Contra's voice gets any higher, we're going to have to raid the Strategic Helium Reserve to fuel her next video.
Watched this the other day n loved it. You cover so much so well. But on further thought (to my memory) you didn’t really touch on the fact that their celibacy is most likely a result of their terrible personalities. Like the fact they’re probably not very nice people to be around. Thoughts?
tldr: incels are narcissists with anger problems, no social skills, bitterness, horny 5 out of 10s that go exclusively after 10s, delusional about their own traits and skills, which makes them completely unlikable people.
I would not have known you where trans if you didn't say anything. That's impressive!
Brilliant video! Very educational and captivating. You're right, you dont want to take sympathy on them but...its so easy to actually do it. Because I think so many of us have been in that place where we hate our looks, we think we'll never find love, etc. But they've taken that and turned it into basically a cult. You have to admit its actually sad to see them want to resort to taking their lives.
I respected everything you had to say till you said that Jordan Peterson was a sexist old man. There is literally no proof to that statement whatsoever.
Why are you talking about "your womanhood" bro?
Christ, these guys actively WANT to be lonely! They have no other identity!
Ok, I'm not being politically correct lol but I wish I had half your elegance, talent and brains. Your heart shows too. I juste LOVED every aspect of that video, the best I saw so far about incels (and I have seen quite a few). Thank you so much for that, I didn't know your channel but I feel like I just fell in love.
LOOK AT THE PUPPYS, LOOK AT THE PUPPYS, COME GATHER ROUNDAND LOOK AT THE PUPPYS
The statistics around divorce, dating sites and alimony alone tell their own story. If you don't recognise the issues men in general have with marriage and cohabiting with women then you really are going to be at odds with most men going forward. Trying to convince feminists that this is an issue is pointless because they want to destroy and remake society. The really strange thing is the men advocating distancing from women and giving feminists what they want get demonised the most, not Incels. MGTOW gets a special kind of hatred. That is. because feminists want men controlled in thought but always there to provide resource. Distancing, not marrying means men no longer handing money to women. Because this is a battle for power and ultimately control of resource after all, feminists tell us this directly, unashamedly. If this were not the case the MGTOW, or monk approach would be applauded. Anyways, MGTOW and Men's rights are actually getting men to talk to each other about the problems specifically they face, regardless of race. This is ultimately going to be the solution to prevent Incel mentality taking hold widely so demonising any kind of men's advocacy really is going to pour petrol on an already volatile situation. I really can't deal with the Mysogyny arguments about men, in some cases justified, venting about female nature and the state in combination. We really have had enough of a hatchet job done on male identity already so vitriolic feminists and allies can get used to the criticism. Deal with it. A bit of advice for Incels. Get a motorcycle. You can channel that fatalism to ecstasy. You'll be on the edge of death routinely and loving every moment.  You'll want to ride it as a preference even when the option of sex is there. What depression? Self loathing? Gone Great video, very fair
Well, those Nerdiacs ain't wrong! So the obvious solutions is to bring back the pity fuck. The Ladies Blowjob Auxiliary, if you will. So get to work bitches and make America great again!
Best Incel video. I’ve been warily side-eyeing them as a death cult too
I would've never thought you were born a man, you look really feminine! Good job :)
I watch Cuestar videos about incels and nice guys. That is probably why your video was proposed. I am intruiged and mesmerized by your narration style! I am staying.
Henk Janssen  My best friend was one of the least attractive men I'd ever met. The first time I saw him I was amazed anyone could look that way. He wasn't monstrously ugly, just weirdly shaped with a large head.   We grew close because of our love of stories and deep need for other to help us complete them while we enjoy their input. After a while he started to look more normal to me, because I saw him everyday. I  noticed he had beautiful eyes. A nose similar to my partner (my partner is 5"1 and I'm 5"4. He's very attractive to me as an Asian man with feminine features)   His head is large but it's endearing.  He jokes about how hard it is to find a hat that fits him because it's true. He has so much charm and charisma. My boyfriend and myself have taken to writing erotic stories together with him,  whenever characters would feasibly sleep together we dive in with detail set to the characters personality and move on to the rest of the story.   Point is, I love him, and he is more attractive to me now than he was when I met him. In a world where my boyfriend and I hadn't met so early (6th grade dating) I could have seen us together. Not without some arguing over roleplay business but quite happy.   He's such a good writer I'm in love with one or two of his characters legitimately. Just thought I'd add that, his talent deserves mention.
Incel are a bunch of weird losers
I'm technically a wristcel, I just managed to touch my pinky and thumb around my wrist. So that's why I'm single? Huh... interesting.
hi you're beautiful, thanks for coming to my tedtalk
"Hi Stacy, it's Tracy" killed me.
I'm trying to be tactful but ahh...is this a...you know....man?
Your sea comment cracked me up.
What can I say... Loved this video and I'm going to watch the rest of your posts! Absolutely amazing!
Stop blocking the swears out
Such lovely costumes you have!
This video has given me the motivation to quit r/braincels and 4chan, thanks contrapoints.
The amount of research that's done on this subject will literally fuck anyone up  Poor Contra ☹️😢
Did you actually get John Cleese to narrate the Becky vs. Stacy thing? Cuz that sounds like John Cleese
2500 likes? I have 3 matches in 3 months
110% GAVE ME THE SQUIDWARDS
I am not a fan of leftist youtube, but this is probably the best video on incels regardless of political alignment.
Excellent video. Very funny and insightful!
I’ve never seen your vids before but I can tell you make amazing content. #Stan
"as a woman" buahaha
Are you a water sign? Cause man I was feeling that sea imagry a little too hard.
29:50   So close to self awareness, yet so far
how can a short ugly person such as myself ever get into a relationship?
The rape stuff freaks me out.  So gross
Send me the coordinates for the cult compound when you settle on a location. I'm looking to be your right hand man- am willing to poison competition.
I didn't even know anything about 'Hun' term used in the community. And instantly hated it. Coming from someone who got out of an abusive relationship; they used 'Hun' exactly in that piteous, demeaning way.  I hope people find more healthier communities to help them out with their self esteem.  Not even sympathizing with incel community, just hope that people get out of that phase of their lives.
I think the main problem with incels is that some of what they believe have a sliver of truth to it, of course like people of any race, creed or gender there are obviously scumbag women who cheat on their spouse, marry men for their money, and are all around shallow. But they attribute this to all women, which is fucking ridiculous. But  because they can always find that one example of the "femoid" they're never going to be shaken from their conviction.
I have never come across you before, but damn, gurl! You are a force of nature! Excellent content and research! 👏 👏 👏
Good job "not making fun of" Incels :)
Natalie I'm a cisgender right-winger, we agree on almost nothing politically : you look feminine and attractive
but I like your face :-(
NATALIE IS ON TINDR I'M BUYING A PLANE TICKET TO BALTIMORE DON'T CUT IT OFF YET BB I'M ON MY WAY
Says the fucking guy in a wig delusional enough to believe he is a woman with a dick.
this is the only incel topic video which I thoroughly understood. keep up the good work!
"Sexist old man" - no he's not.  Get off your high horse.
This is an amazing video. I wish there was a way to get through to these guys. I'm no chad and I know many little nerds who can get laid. I'm a straight guy but I totally have a crush on you! You're doing a phenomenal job. Thank you.
this is most excellent
"Jordan Peterson, who is basically a sexist old man" she says, presumably referring to his comments on the non-existent wage gap... (I'm not an incel mind you, just a realist)
I used to be in and around the proto-incel communities some years back as I was looking for a community for people like me (depressed unattractive fuckups) and despite never buying into the misogyny and anti-feminism (I got to step 5 and then started blaming myself instead), it seemed like the closest thing. Hearing you talk about digital self-harm and communities dedicated to despair and pessimism really hit home for me, I turned into a self-loathing zealot, combating the common misogyny with the gospel of It's Your Own Fault and Let's Kill Ourselves, poisoning every community I participated in with despair. It felt like no one outside those communities were being honest with their vapid platitudes (like the widely mocked "just b urself"), and so it's easy for me to understand how people get into shit like the Black Pill or any other conspiracy theory where you have a community of enlightened individuals who have figured out the real truths you won't hear from normies, even if those truths only make you miserable.  Your mention of mental illness also made me realize that my time in those communities probably weren't great for my own issues. I'm still as depressed, isolated and sexless as I was back then, but it feels like I spent so much time and energy crushing anything resembling hope (my favorite quote was "Hope in reality is the worst of all evils, because it prolongs the torments of men.") that even years after my main community imploded after everyone either had enough of me or killed themselves, the idea that not everything is hopeless and improvement is possible seems totally absurd to me. It feels like I sabotaged my own life so badly that it became a self-fulfilling prophecy.  BTW, another interesting thing from a social-anthropological perspective: You mention that when people post selfies in incel communities today, they will receive mostly comments reaffirming their belief that they're unfuckable. My memories of /r9k/ around 2013 was closer to the opposite: Incels would post their selfies with some comment about how extremely ugly they were, but the replies would refute that and deny them membership in the incel community because they looked like fucking chads. I noticed this in many of the surrounding communities as well, there was a sort of "must be this broken to ride" mentality where we wanted a safe space free from normies who wouldn't understand our woes.  *dawning realization that my social isolation has gone far enough to post walls of text in YouTube comments no one will read*
YT algorithm finally suggested your channel-- I love your brain.
Blackpill is true.
Never really thought about it, but the sea is rather erotic, isn't it? Especially since it's home to broadcast spawners and simultaneous hermaphrodites and barnacles, which have the longest penis for their body size of any animal.
I use to think I was an incel, but seeing as I still consider women as human beings and not inanimate fucking objects, I'll just start to shy away from any labels now. If anyone asks I just have fucking problems getting laid, big woop.
Could you please do a 2 hour binaural skull tapping video? Asking for a friend.
if only the homosexual agenda would progress faster! theyd all be so much happier
ContraPoints is immunized against all dangers. One may call her a tranny, faggot, degenerate, it all runs off her like water off a raincoat. But call her a "Hon" and you will be astonished at how she recoils, how injured she is, how she suddenly shrinks back: "I've been found out".
correction in the beginning of the video, its mostly heterosexual White men...I know you can't say that without alienating some idiots in your audience but be truthful about it. White privilege plays a massive role in this/
"Look at that dumb Chad and his stupid, tight, firm, full ass...and his fuckin' chiseled jaw and perfect chin and dreamy eyes...It's just not fair!! Fuck you, Chad...Fuck you so hard..."
Best incel video I’ve ever seen
This...is a man..isnt it?
You are such an artist, wtf.
I'm now trying to remember everyone I called "hon" without knowing how it could've been perceived..  Why are people are silly :(
Loved the video. First one I've seen from you. I wanna take a moment to thank you for taking the time to script out your video, and not jump cut away after every sentence. It's refreshing.
Beautiful
"The manosphere exists because rocknroll is dead." Omg it all makes sense now...
thats an actually good video
“volcel if you wouldn’t” 😂😂😂 totally agree!!!
"author of a book called BANG"Haha I laughed... wait he actually writes books called bang. wth.
Easily the most intelligent video I've seen about this subject so far... Thanks a lot.
do mtf with "fuckholes" feel any pleasure down there?
At least these pricks care enough about my pussy to be an asshole about my dick!
This is the first video of yours I’ve watched and omg.. So well done. Ive seen your debate with Blaire White and thought that you were cool for doing it, but I disagreed with a lot of what you said. I’m definitely willing to check out your videos after seeing this one, though ❤️ subscribed!
First Video and I'm oficially hooked <3
I knew Incels were a thing but wow. This is some next level group based self hatred.
Imagine all the people Living life in peace
I found it really interesting that this video turned to the subject of trans issues, cause while all the incel-self-hate was going on in my mind I (a closeted trans-woman) was (without intending to) using their concerns about their "feminine" features as a check against my own features. I have really tiny wrists (and have always needed women's watch straps cause of it) so I was a little overjoyed to be reminded of that fact, but then disappointed when foreheads were brought into it cause I have a masculine forehead.  Oh, another really interesting aspect of all of this is the baking-dude. I think the fact he (and presumably other incels) are so obsessed with not doing femme things, probably actually makes them physically less attractive. In an era where (progressive) men are more than ever using plenty of self-grooming and even some makeup to improve their appearance, this incel avoidance of even the most basic of hygiene and other femme activities has got to be taking a big toll on their simple ability to function. Like, they probably can't cook or clean...
I now need a Contrapoints ASMR vid.
Ha! Gaaaayyyyyyyyyyy!
your videos are fantastic.
*glances at his own wrist, trying to hold back the tears*
Forgive me if there is an etiquette I am not aware of but as a CIS Male hetro ect. I would like to say you look great. I doubt i would notice you transness without looking for it. Again apologise if I am out of line.
Clearly a man. Yes, turns out you can find some extremely cringe worthy examples of depravity on the internet. Its easy to do, weirdos love to congregate because it makes them feel less weird. Crazy.  If you think that the only people affected by the complete degradation of sexual conservatism is wizards in their mother's basement, you have a very limited worldview, and probably a significant lack of self awareness. There's plenty of cultural problems in American society which are spearheaded by very outspoken minorities, and pushed on the public as a legitimate problem. Incels will never be this. They are a product of the times, not the architects of the future.
Im a huge JBP fan out slaying the dragon and cleaning my room every day and i love your channel and your healthy meta perspective of trans issues and leftist politics
At first I was like “Wow a female YouTuber that’s actually funny” and then I kept watching the video and yeah... that explains a lot.
“Wears baggy clothes to hide smalll tits and ass”  Why would I hide my small tits and ass if it guarantees that men like this will never come near me?
33:35 preeeach
These kinds of videos are somehow worse than those "skeptic" channels making videos about sjws
Chadsplaining? Oh god we've come full circle.
thought u were a girl til you said you werent
That kind of 4chan criticism though - used to go on there as a teenager on the art advice board and they were BRUTAL. People posting basically professional level artwork and getting ridiculously savage feedback, ending with you should give up, this is horrendously bad etc etc. Never posted and expected University to be just as savage with critiques - shock horror, NOBODY IS. Gotta love anonymous message boards.
As much as enjoy ContraPoints, I couldn't make it past 10 mins, Incel stuff is so toxic it makes me feel a bit queasy 😖
T H I S I S L I K E A V E R Y V U L N E R A B L E M O M E N T F O R M E E E E E E E E E E
Informative, entertaining and honestly coming from a good place. You do amazing work and I'm always looking forward to what you have to say next! Thanks for existing and keep fighting the good fight!
Wow... this video is thorough!
Ugh, I was actually finding this interesting until you claimed JBP is "kind of a sexist old man". Come on, fuck outta here with that SJW propaganda bullshit.
red pill isn't wrong, its right on a lot of cases. its just not 100% prevalent.
I just feel like no one understands incels, how would you feel if because of things completely out of your control (in my case loads of acne scars, being under 6 feet tall, and not having a hot face) just make you ineligible to get an attractive partner. Every night I lay in bed alone crying myself to sleep an attractive guy gets to sleep next to the girl of my dreams, all because of genetic factors I had no say in. Don't you understand how fucked up that is? Guys like us are never gonna be able to get married to someone we truly love, raise a family, have some one to grow old with, we're gonna die alone because of things we had no control over. I just feel like it's really shitty to pile onto people who are already really miserable, especially when you rub it in that you've been able to have sex, kiss, etc. It just seems like there's no light at the end of the tunnel for guys like me, so of course we're gonna be bitter about it, I can't even leave the house without feeling ashamed of how I look, so yeah, that tends to make someone a little crazy. I just wish people showed a little more empathy for people whose lives are already ruined for things they had no control over
Is there a TTTT-esque forum for trans men? You know, for research.
Is this really a big deal. Proportionately.
Another attractive quality is when you're attracted to me... It shows you've got good taste ;)
So, somebody actually had the time and inclination to sit around and think about this shit?  God damn, the post industrial age has a lot to answer for.
I stumbled on this video and I am hooked. You are amazing! Articulate, and dry with great editing. Honestly, there's not a lot of Youtubers who put a ton of work into their videos like you've done, and I really appreciate your effort. I'm definitely subscribing :)
Make up is on point Natilie.
Ok but for serious can we get some more sea-related content that was kind of incredible
This is the best video I have seen on inceldom. Well done.
shit i say hon affectionately day-to-day
is she transgender?
Natalie, the stuff you said about visiting TTT as a form of a kind of emotional self harm... that hit close to home and made me rethink some things I often do to myself. Thank you so much. You're an inspiration.
thank God I found this channel today!!!!!!!!! my hour long work commutes will never be the same
is the host a trap? this vid was very well made btw
you're a worthless subhuman too.
THis video is masterful...
Waits untill he looses all of his manlyness. Then goes to kick his ass.
yay i'm only 5/9 on the blackpill scale
9:06 I disagree with you on this point. Incels, PUA's, MGTOW and MRA's do all have the "Red Pill" concept, but each group gives it a different meaning.   The Incel Red Pill dictates that money, power and physical appearance are the only way into a woman's pants. This differs from the PUA variant which suggests that these aren't necessary, but they help. What really gets women going is "game" i.e. the ability to excite women in conversation with wit, social intelligence and confidence. Notice how Incel's disregard all of these traits and keep things superficial?   MGTOW's red pill claims that women are only good for a "pump and dump" i.e. no relationships. Just sex. Anything more is a liability because women will slow men down in their career goals, try to control their hobbies or free time, destroy them in divorce court and screw them with child support. While it does mention sexuality, this red pill doesn't talk about _how_ to get laid. Merely to keep relationships strictly sexual if you choose to have one at all. Finally, MRA red pills say that western society is inherently gynocentric and ignores the issues that men face in favour of prioritising, sensationalising and over-committing to women's issues and mere inconveniences. No mention of how to get laid here.   Of course, there are overlaps between these definitions - e.g. PUA red pilling can allow one to indulge in the MGTOW lifestyle, or Incels use the MRA red pill to validate their own conclusions. The concept of Hypergamy only factors into the Incel and MGTOW red pills. Incels think that women want better than them and MGTOW think hypergamy justifies many divorce cases and cheating stories.Ultimately, however, these are still not the same "red pill".
15:24 I guess that just boys need a daddy, and sometimes incels do too.
This was interesting. But...Jordan Peterson a "sexist old man"?! Ha. No.
hi, can I get the skullsmr as a separate sound clip? I need it for... reasons.
"Trans women are worried that they will ook like a man in a dress" but how can someone look like a men if there is no such thing as biological sex?
#notalldick
The number of times I've tried messaging seemingly sweet nerdy guys, who mention they're virgins,  only to get silence or rejection. Is too much to bare.  I fear I'll never lose my deflowering virginity virginity.
"JP is sexist old men" I hope that was a joke.
Scary shit.
Kind of a stereotypical response, was hoping for some unique perspectives
Incels should turn their hatred inward and renounce sexual relationns altogether and become a volcel like me.
Am I the only one who got ASMR from 22:30?
Very interesting take 😊 definitely gonna check out more.
very insightful thank you.
Depress me more please for some reason it also entertains me? But seriously, wonderful video, can't wait for the next one! 😊
Oh come on now man you shouldn't be so rude
I'm so glad I found you on my recommendations
FEEEEEEMMMOOOOOIDS. Love it. Subscribing 2 min after I found you.
22:21 this is a mood
"The inherent eroticism of the sea"  That will be my soundbyte for the year. (17:52)  Love this video! Subbed (duh!)
are u a trans woman???
Why would you be ashamed of being a male? You were a lovely female in a man's body. I'm glad youre happy now and you ARE resplendent, but you made great videos as a guy. He was only young remember. I feel bad for him... We can't even speak his name. Why do transpeople try and erase their past? As Tyrion said "Never forget what you are... The World will not... Wear it like armour and it can never be used to hurt you." Because he has been erased the only pic of him on the Internet is the one Skyping in a Hotdog costume to Facts and Ghost.
17.28: "I'm ready to move on if you're ready to forgive." Huh? But sure. I forgive(?) you for being born male? And even going so far as to live as a man? Yeah? Did I do that right? I'm confused. Great video so far! Congrats!
1. i'm in love with you. 2. you sound like tina belcher & i mean that in the best way
Amazing video!!!!! First time I see your work! Juste amazing! thank you! I learned a lot and had fun! Now I am going to your other videos ^_^
Congrats for your Work. Here in Brasil we also see incels groups growing. Some of these men got recently arrested but some got away with their crimes (like the Realengo shooter and many many others). And what's worst is that extreme political groups are trying to aprove a new law tô forbid any schools efforts tô talk about sex/gender/political issues. Since the internet is giving the incels the tools to organise across borders it's Only fair that we also use internet to explain why this is a misleading and dangerous point of view. If we dont take the trouble tô do this "teaching" the Only broadcasts that will catch the públic's attention will be from guys like Jordan Peterson... who's also misogynist in other ways. So Let's change the sexist culture together :)
Whats wrong with the "Becky" type of girls? I dont get it, "Becky" seems rather smart and interesting when compared to the superficial "Stacy".
Secondary comment: How dare you leave out Us Demoncels. We can't find love because Angelichads steal everything while We toil in Hell.
This is amazing, Thanks for the insight
That sour grapes shade *Kisses fingers*
The world is full of livingcels
This is the first video of yours I’ve ever seen, and I love it. I’m so glad I found your channel. I love the lighting you use it’s so atmospheric and cool!
Lol, I thought I recognised "The Becky" and "The Stacy": http://www.allthatsfab.com/articles/society/people-furious-over-sexist-comic-story-behind-it-more-scandalous
wtf am i watching?
Jesus Christ this video is so depressing
I cook and bake bread because I like food and fresh bread. I didn't know I had to flex muscles or explain bread scientifically while baking bread in order to feel like a man.
I am very uncomfortable.
I see self pity is very popular on incel forums
Hm, I like Fingals caves.
Info was well-researched and you present it in an organized way  (wine glass is a nice touch).  Not many incels will be receptive but it was worth a shot.
**Applauds**   *Subbed.*
Intel misogyny is just bitter men projecting their self-hatred onto the object of their deep desire.
This is the first video I've seen of yours and it's solid. Good watch and good advice.  Incels are largely just terrible people, via natural clownfuckery or bent that way by the community. That alone makes most unfuckable but there are a decent percentage that clearly have a masochistic relationship with the community/belief. Many *DO* simply need to go outside, get off the forum, exercise, etc.   I've always been a generic motherfucker. Look at me. Yes, it's a joke-pic I took for someone a few years ago that I'm too lazy to change but that's me. I'm no Chad (lol).  I bring that up to say that dating/casual sex *IS* a marketplace and my niche has always been personality. I don't think I've ever had a woman oogle or ogle over me. In fact, I've heard from damn near all of them that it wasn't until we really spoke and got to know each other that they liked me. Humor helps and I've always been a fairly personable guy.  So, I also do have a tiny smidge of understanding for what an incel feels/believes. I know I'm a 5/10 physically, a 6/10 on a good day. I'm nkt short, not tall. I'm not fat but fluctuate between skinny and "somewhat normally proportioned". I'm very average and becoming below-average with age 😅.  So, how could I possibly attract anyone?  Well, you stop obsessing about yourself and do it.   Sure, I've been rejected. Plenty of women have said "I'm sorry but...". It's not their fault and I'm not to blame. Maybe they had a bad day or a recent breakup or I'm not their type. Ok. That's cool.   It's that simple. You don't get to fuck or love anyone you want because you want to and the world isn't conspired against you because of that fact.   I'm sorry we can't all be born as 25yo Brad Pitt. It sucks but actually try, accept rejection *when* it comes, move on, don't kill people and it'll work out for most.
Thank you skull-people for showing me the way.
"...voice is... a Muppet falsetto hybrid of Mickey Mouse and Winnie the Pooh."  Yeah - kinda like a she-Fozzie.
thank you! ive just discovered that ive shared some views with black pillers and i have to stop.
ur famous enough to akinator :3
Let's review:  A male who dresses and acts like a woman cuz he's distraught with the body he was born is poking fun at males distressed at the body they were born with.  Super ironic!
I have done some research on incels. This video put it all into words so nicely and structured.  Could not have done it better myself, 11/10 would femoid again.
You're getting a couple of things wrong. A) Two events over five years is hardly "producing mass murderers at an alarming rate". On any given day, before lunch the world view of Islam racks up a higher body count. B) There is no shared "Red Pill World View". The Red Pill is a metaphor used to say "I as an individual/We as a group realized a truth, that wider society refuses to face". That's it. The world view of the various groups that use that metaphor largely depends on the nature of that truth. Incels say: "Women are superficial and reject men based on things those men cannot change". Pick Up Artists say: "Picking up women is a skill every man can learn." Those are diametrically opposed, so how can there be a shared world view? Granted, there are some shared elements; but those concern a very basic level; the in my opinion most important being the refusal to believe women are more noble, pure and complex than men, but that's no basis to lump them together.  Though some of the things incels think are way off, there is some truth to others. Studies show that women take about 10 seconds to decide whether they consider a guy fuck-worthy or not. A decision made so quickly must by definition be superficial and it cannot be based on his character, because 10 seconds are nowhere near enough time to get an insight into a person's character. A couple of years back OK Cupid published data about how its users rate the other sex. Men's ratings of women followed slightly slanted bell curve; giving about 55% of women a rating of three stars or more. Women's ratings of men were very different; giving 80% of men two stars or less. So even if they get the reasons wrong, incels get one thing right: Men on the lower end of the attractiveness scale have next to no chance of getting laid; because women have a very skewed notion as to what an "avaragely attractive man" is, shoot for men that are out of their league and refuse to "settle" for men that are similarly attractive as they are. It is those women that have the common "where have all the good men gone?"-complaint. And these women are the other side of the incel medallion. And this is very society get unfair: When a man finds himself unable to get laid, society blames him, and tells him he must have a shitty character. Which - given the knowledge that women take only ten seconds to decide - is just a mean way to add insult to injury. When women find themselves unable to get into a relationship society doesn't blame them, it tells men "man up and give those wonderful women the adoration, happyness, relationship, children they deserve". The "incel problem" could be fixed quite easily: *Stop telling men that have trouble getting laid that they're unworthy pieces of that deserve the crap they're getting from the women they try to approach.* Instead tell them that their value as human being doesn't depend on their ability to get laid; tell to have some pride and self-respect, and women that give them crap after ten seconds of interaction are unworthy of men's love, lust and attention anyway. Gender relations should become more equitable. They way things are now, men undersell themselves. Wherever relationships are depicted in the media, it's always the men that need to prove they're worthy of the things women bring into a relationship, while women are absolutely and no questions asked entitled to whatever the man brings into the relationsship. Equitable relations would require women to prove themselves worthy, just like men are expected to. A man who gave a "pump and dump" gave her an infinitely greater chance to prove herself worthy of his love than a woman that after ten seconds decided to reject a guy. I know that's not particularly flattering to women, and that saying will most likely get me called a misogynist woman-hater, but that doesn't mean it's not the truth.
Such naming pattern of shortening and combining words is also oftenly observed in people suffering from scizophrenia.
you came up recommended on my homepage. I am subbed for life. Great video. Thank you for a very smart breakdown of this dangerous misoginistic culture
I consider Incels to be both male and female.  A lot of lonely sexless people out there of both genders.
hey you forgot femcels, i found it really interesting how similar incels and femcels are while being exact opposites, kinda like mirror images of each other
damn this is a good channel
this is one of the most insightful videos i've seen on the subject, i really enjoyed your take on it. also your voice is soothing.
15:20 Beautiful insight and eloquently said, after reading his book I came to exactly the same conclusion. If you need a father figure in your life to tell you how to shape up, Peterson is basically internet dad.  17:29 dw guurl i'd still tap that u full stacy 🍆🍆💦 but  just1 thng... did u cut it off 😂😂😂👌👌
Wow so funny and true, this is the first of your videos I've seen and I love it. Keep up the good work, and I know it's work, because reading some of the crap for your research has to stress your brain (possibly reshaping your skull), it takes imagination to try and understand some of the places incels and such go. Bravo and best wishes.
Hello! Love your stuff! It's rare to find sensibly argued leftist points on the internet. And also you are super charismatic.   Now that the pleasantries are out of the way i'm going to be presumptuous and ask a boon!   I would love to hear your thoughts on a contemporary philosopher called Byung Chul Han. Specifically his books: Fatigue society  Psycho-politics The Agony Of Eros The Swarm (these are my own translations of the titles, might be differently translated into English)  These are all in essay format so its not a huge time investment, and i thought that maybe you're tired of diagnosing the malignancies of out time and might appreciate this new perspective.  Thank you in advance if you decide to give these a shot, and if not thank you anyways for being fab!
I find that I relate and even agree with a lot of what mgtow and incels have to say. I guess the difference with me is that I have let go of a lot of the hate and frustration of rejection. I have also decided to live differently and base my self esteem on my own individuality and self improvement. This includes not comparing myself to others ( I don't always succeed but thats the intention). I think incels have been created from situations where they either don't understand or misunderstand women and th expected dating/society norms or they refuse to conform . Personally I probably am an Incel that doesn't label himself as one, I just label myself an individual. In terms of the violence and isolation, if a society doesn't want people to be violent or isolate themselves then encourage people to stop bullying people and encourage people to be more accepting and respectful of differences. Also encourage women to date men of all types, remove the external pressures of people saying that they shouldn't date one person or another as well. There is an inequality in the dating world between men and women. There are far more male incels than female because women get chased.
Is that Markiplier? 😂
Fantastic video Contra. I may be an EEEEVIL conservative nationalist but I find that you always produce interesting and engaging content. Top notch :)
I might not agree with everything she says but Contrapoint vids are top notch, great set, great editing and okish homour
that intro give me cringe poisoning....
Academy award for olly as wristcel
You should also check out the Ladder Theory if the website is still around.  It's a theory of how women determine who they will sleep with. As a young incel in the time before such things existed I found it a fascinating insight.   I wonder what the modern organised incel has done with it.
roosh unironically saying the words "I am ultra masculine" (while wearing that silly dick-shield on his face and feeling that he has to justify bakery, mind you) is legitimately the funniest thing I've heard in a long time. literally lol'd
My Lady, you are a kindred, of the Malkavian kind to be correct. I love it , all fabulous, and artsy, with a sweet touch of darknes and madness. I salute you.
You pass very well, gotta say
Thank you for researching this and making this video.
A few points: 1) Hypergamy is well documented and biologically accepted among many species including humans. The whole Red Pill scene has exaggerated the shit out of it, but if you filter out the hyperbole, there are valid points in there. 2) I'm not sure Catastrophizing is fitting. It's more a case of learned helplessness - a leading cause of depression. 3) Incels have a lot in common with radical feminists. The other gender wronged me ('arbitrary' rejection / slight), it wronged me often so it's systemic and I'm oppressed, it's morally OK to hate my oppressor. Scum Manifesto vs. Incel Rage - two sides of the same coin. Edit: 4) Just because someone isn't using an intellectual position properly, doesn't mean it's not worthy to engage that position.
"The incel community has built-in defenses against anyone who would try to change their minds."  Ya, sounds like all of conservativism in the US.  So, this is more like a 30-40% of the population issue, sadly, than a 1% or less issue....
Whelp end of video turned me on. T^T I'll never look at the ocean the same way again
Woow you are very beautiful. I don't care what gender you are, i just find you beautiful. Do not panic because i am from western europe and i have a girlfriend for +6y ;). I just needed to say this. Also thank you for this very great video. Thank you for explaing these new terms to my old 31y ass :p ;). I keep an open mind and watch all sorts of people their videos. I hate politics you see. Have a nice day :).
To incels: google "midget wife" and see how many men--including men of color--with 3 foot height, fucked up skull shape, small wrists, etc are with nice women.  Of course, you guys would attribute this to luck or peg the wives as unfuckable Beckys....so....ya, on second thought, just see a shrink ASAP.  You have issues that can be solved by a professional.
Hey im a trump supporter and I'm called a incel and deplorable, the term has lost its shock meaning
“How do I make this about me?”
I thought I'd heard everything about incels, but this went in a number of directions I wasn't expecting. I love it. It's 3 in the morning and I have this on at low volume, and something about the lighting and the general surrealism of the video is so soothing (on that note, ASMR at 22:21.)  Also, you somehow made "the eroticism of a rainstorm" sound attractive and I don't know what to do with this information. Uhhh...thanks?  (Like this comment to return to the salty embrace of our dark mother, the sea.)
hahaha tyrones:'9
I'm a straight man, but for the most part sex with women is normally disappointing.  Incels build it up into some fucking heaven.  Sorry to break it to you, guys.  It's just sex.  You're pretty much better off with a world-class six pack and a good movie.
The red pill stuff is such crap. Crap dreamt up by thick entitled people who want to sound clever or thick entitled people who want to blame any vaguely convenient external factors for their perceived bad luck. Like conspiracy theorists or a sizable proportion of Trump voters. Like this current deep state bollocks. It's all the same. This tragic group is just a self loathing version - so I suppose they get some sympathy points... well from me at least.
beautiful video i have recently become obssesed with incel culture.. its an odd satisfaction to see them loath over themselves
I think you're great.  I don't have anything more insightful to say, but as much as you wore your heart on your sleeve in this video you deserve to hear it from as many people as possible.
if they haven't tried fucking each other, they are not 'involuntary'
There have been 2 incel mass murderers in 10 years. How many sex-having normie terrorists, rapists, thugs, etc are there? Exactly.   Incels are probably the least likely group to commit (violent) crimes when you compare  them to non-incel normies. But people LOVE to shit on low-status men, aka incels. We get ALL the hate.
I am real incel.
So one of the main problems in the consistency of the incel philosophy (note: consistency, not truth) is I think the part where "normies" marry cheating wives. If this happened on such a big scale surely "normies" and "Beckie's" would suspect something? And what happens to those "Tracies" and "Chads" when they're no longer at a Chad or Tracy age?   In my own humble opinion I think that yes, physical attractiveness is undeniably a plus, but there is a big difference between the kind of guy women would maybe be more inclined to hook up with and the kind of guy they marry. That's not how relationships work. You don't stay with someone because of their looks. (Do they long for romance or for sex?)  (Personally I tend to fall for "normies" with an above average intelligence over "Chads", but the kind of intelligence that creates new stuff and opinions, not the kind of intelligence you get from just reading a lot of wikipedia and the occasional book) (This essay, while brilliant, made me very sad)
i love you so much this is a brilliant video
The hypergamy thing... do they honestly think that average looking women end up with above average looking men? Walk around outside for a bit... the opposite tends to be true. The “hot girl, ugly guy” trope is founded to some extent in reality because women stereotypically have a more rounded idea of what makes someone attractive.
It is so depressing to know the depth to some of these people cynicism; to actually believe that the majority of the world population is so selfish and shallow in such simplistic terms... I don't know how they'd get out of bed every morning. I think I'd just end it all - or if I were an actual shallow and person that did believed this, then end it all right after going on a killing spree out of entitled bitterness. Difficult. I feel genuine sadness, sympathy and contempt for this subgroup.
Well, to be honest, not politically correct nor gratuitously bashful, your voice is mildly annoying and your looks are those of an average woman. Worst case scenario is you might look slightly older than your age.
How are u r videos so good
A faggotcell is someone so addicted to porn you become a 'woman' to date men... the irony of another flaccid critique
ah, it's r/braincels now
Millennial Internet smuggery at its finest!
I'm not trans or anything like that, but I can relate with the part where you spoke about the self-destructive habits people can form online. When I was going through puberty, it was easy to isolate as I was homeschooled and didn't have many close friends I could contact. Eventually I formed somewhat of an addiction to the internet, and would seek validation from people I barely knew and were probably in the same boat or worse. I neglected my health and happiness and became so attached I just wouldn't leave my chair. My social skills were crippled and i'm still fixing that today. I would sit for hours and only get up when I had to.  But I got out of it after awhile. I realized that these habits I was forming weren't healthy, and with the help of my family I was able to come out of it. Things like this can grab you and make you think you aren't good enough, or that the world has forgotten you, or that you will never succeed. People will fetishize and encourage self-destruction to already vulnerable people. You have to realize what it's doing and step back. It's hard, but there is always a way out. There is ALWAYS a reason to live. Whether you've found it yet or not. Sorry if that didn't make sense or go on a tangent, but your words spoke to me. I appreciate your video and love the aesthetic you got going on! Keep being you!
These guys need to get outside more often, and stop living on the internet.
Please do a video on toxic masculinity. Whenever a news service posts an article about it on social media, toxic men and their fembots go full reactionary.
If we're talking looks based on the comparative pictures... I'll take the Becky over the Stacy.
I love you contrapoints. I really do, you are beautiful and elegant and fucking funny as shit. You make the world a better place and light up my life.
Natalie, you are beautiful and I hope you look in the mirror on occasion and say "God damn, girl", maybe do a little sashay and then confidently go on about your day.
*Imagine believing that having sex is the pinnacle of human existance.*
Wow. That was amazing.  You're amazing
I stumbled on you because of your philosophical criticisms. I don’t know if I want to go into grad school to become a philosopher or just grab a commission and finish up my military career. But honestly everything you make is spot on my good woman!
There is so much fucked up shit about Incels, and none of it has to do with the way they look.
Yo real shit I couldn't even tell u was trans wow
Okay this may be the best channel on  YouTube.
The Chad comparison picture is the same guy, just post Op. I would know cuz I had that same surgery
rainstorms are sexy as fuck. 10/10 would fuck the ocean.
Can we get a Contra ASMR side channel? That skull tapping...
When I heard "Chad's fuckable skull", my thoughts went to some very weird places.
i wanna feel sad about this incels i do...but i cant, even a whore would turn them down...after taken their money of course
imagine her asking you to pay her bills.  And then hitting you up for child support because she lied about being on the pill.  Reality should have been mixed in with the fantasy at the beginning of the video. ;)
Lol @ incels and their plastic skulls
I'm not a teenager, actually I'm a 35 year old man. Is that why I take my sexual frustrations out on a B.C. Rich Warlock, not a Fender Stratocaster?
I made the mistake of trying to watch this when I'm the only one awake and I spent so much time trying to keep my laughter quiet.  Though there was the other end where I was genuinely horrified by some of what was shown; My God, that "I hate women" paragraph is so horrifying. You handled a serious subject in a fantastic way, balancing humour and commentary.
First video ive seen from you and i am addicted
NAT, I wonder if you were an incel before you started pretending to be a woman
hey contra ,,, just to be clear im not sure you need femed your in pretty  good shape
You know, I just always thoroughly enjoy your content. It really means a lot to me. Thank you for doing this.
wait, hold on, you're trans?   As a trans woman myself  (I don't think i pass but apparently I do?) You're goddamn GORGEOUS. I'm so jealous ;-;
Well, shit. This perspective is... illuminating
The suicide rates for trans people is tragically high, I wonder if the suicide rates for incels are comparable. I mean has any research been done on incel suicide rates? It seems like the attitude of self-loathing and helplessness is similar like you mention in this video. Many trans people feel like they'll never pass as a woman/man thus never be happy, incels feel like they'll never get laid thus never be happy. This is why we need more investment in mental health services, I think we all have hope no matter how hopeless it feels.
The whole perspective of “I’m not happy therefore the whole world is fucked up and nothing will ever change” is really close to how i felt before I sought out treatment for my depression and anxiety. The truth is, these things aren’t the world’s fault, but they aren’t necessarily your fault either. But it means YOU have the responsibility to make the healthy and difficult choice of getting help from a mental health professional and going through the hard work of overcoming these negative thoughts and feelings. In therapy I learned coping mechanisms, grounding techniques, ways to overcome my fear of engaging strangers and being around people, and it took years of HARD WORK. But it’s hard work that is worth it. Stop wallowing in the negatives and get help. You cannot put all of your personal hang ups and burdens on other people who aren’t professionals and expect them to deal with all of your problems along with all of their own. Yes it’s ok to confide in people, but don’t expect every woman you meet to wade through the sea of self doubt, hatred, and lack of empathy to find the real you when even you aren’t willing to do that. Work on yourself.
Peeing standing up is great fuck hole or not
your sorry for saying blackcile  nigga you got problems
What about emotions
Jesus could you come off any more condescending?  Highly uninformed, misleading, and toxic video.
ho no a tanny so this is what the incel way leads to FUCK gatta kill my self now
Of course all of these relate back to the skull... They're all based on looks, and looks is largely face, and face is largely skull.
I genuinely got shocked in the middle of the video when you said you're a trans, got me tripping. Great fucking video analysis of incels, with a great point of view Subscribed
the manosphere exists because rock n roll is dead
The world is sad.
Thanks for the video! I have tiny wrists and am just below the average height, but women love me (maybe too much). Shows what a good skull does for yer!
im definitely  black pilled im an incel hon, im never gonna pass and never gonna get laid or get a relationship, i will die alone i really want to stop but i dont know, is very hard to get out of that cycle of loneliness, misery and self loath
I subbed instantly only a few minutes in. This video is amazing and deserves all the views.
Let's hear moral advice from someone who spends countless hours and money to hide his appearance.
7:52 once again not very observant. my forearms look small to me, until i look in a mirror. sigh, perspective is an awesome thing.
that initial read seems like a person who isn't very observant. maybe he needs to look around at the folk who are married around him. maybe just walk through a supermarket or something and notice that not only are most of us not that attractive, they still get married.
You failed miserably on explaining the red pill, black pill, and you constantly abuse the word "misogynistic" however it's good to see your humility. Being a man who's delusional enough to think you're a woman, you're in no place to judge some gross neckbeards who can't get laid. You're wrong, but I can at least respect your mind set. I'll take not being able to get laid over being mentally ill any day though
I....really dig this video.
I LOVED THIS!!!!! TFS Ive never seen any of your videos before but i love the rich content and production value.    I watched this from beginging to end completly captivated each second.   I am just now learning of this incel subculture so i craved an in depth breakdown of it.   In particular I am so glad you mentioned how this mindset is beyond the use of logic to resolve and requires counseling to remedy.   Also I loved the way you ended the video it was almost like watching cute kitten videos after watching a depressing documentary or cartoons after a horror film so you dont have nightmares.
Your look reminds me of a young Wynona Ryder!
Great, now I can't watch Finding Nemo without getting a semi.
Why do you consistently cover the most preposterous shit. Obviously no man ever is celibate in the modern world where there is a birth control pill; unless he IS/and or feels inadequate, or was raised by a family that endeared abstaining type sensibilities onto him when he was entering puberty. I desperately want to look forward to your videos contra, but I wish they were about more interesting non hot button topics.   Maybe a more interesting less callous approach to the topic of Incels would be exploring why biological men could ever hold such an absurd mental disposition about the sexual nature between men and women; and what are some real biological or social problems that cause or exaggerate the mentality of what being a male is, and how that  would make men adopt such a social-sexual identity like being an Incel.
I'm an incel but instead of woman it's just people in general. And instead of wanting people to fuck me I just want a friend. Basically what I'm saying is I'm saying is I might as well not exist because no one recognizes my existence and that makes me sad.  Anyway I appreciate your video. An objective view at the sort of depressing mentality incels have subjected themselves to. Keep up the good work.
As a straight male I think you're beautiful. Don't let anyone give you doubts or make you loath yourself
Jesus christ this was equally horrifying and fascinating.
So this is my introduction to your page, so hi. Your video was fantastic.
The thing is, the 80/20 rule has a point. It has been demonstrated that women find 70% of men average, while men find 40% of women average. That is, women typically have very strict requirements for a spouse, while men have much lower requirements.
Isn't this a gold mine i stumbled upon yesterday and have watched most of the videos by now. In absolute love and awe. 😍😍
Oh god, I call basically anyone I like "hun." Time to get real self-conscious! :D
The black pill reminds me of the creepypasta
"At least these pricks care enough about my pussy to be an asshole about my dick!"  I was floored by that
27:10 Now I can't unhear it !
The retardation on the internet has reached new heights. I can't believe people who think like that actually exist. I have encountered red pill and mgtow before but that incel thing takes the cake. At least they are going to be eliminated by the gene pool...
What.An.Icon! First video I've seen from you and I was blown away by the artistry, attention to detail, wit, the list goes on and on.
17:54 never wetter
smashed that mf sub button
Good video! I relate to the feelings of hopelessness described tbh, but I only blame myself. I’m a pretty unlovable person.
Perfect video. Except that I have to wait another month for the next!!
While the "manosphere" may have a tendency of blowing "Red Pill Knowledge" out of proportion, they aren't exactly, entirely wrong...  And the solution for the incel problem is pretty simple when you think about it: just legalize prostitution. Maybe it won't stop them all from hating women, but at least they'll be able to get laid whenever they want, which would go a long way to getting them to chill the fuck out.
Completely lost it at "clean your room bucko" this is genius
This is so thorough and easy to follow. The quality of this is really inspired.
Randomly found this video and I fucking love it.
god it reminds me of a pro anna forums a lot.
Paris Hilton was great in Repo! The Genetic Opera tho.
Thank you for this. It was necessary and definitely helpful even though GOD dam this must have been difficult to make.
This is a really interesting video, especially with the points on Tinder. I am a demisexual man who has used Tinder, and I didn't even look at the pictures much because the aesthetic of a person means next to nothing to me (tattoos are cool I guess)...Anyway, I had no success using that app, and very little with others. I'm not sure such things were meant for me, because I just wanted to read the bio and find interesting stuff to talk about, maybe get to know somebody. I don't think any of the women I tried talking to had much interest in anything except pictures; perhaps I wasn't photogenic, I'm not sure. I've had plenty of success by meeting people through parties, clubs, and classes since then, and I'm engaged happily now, but Tinder just made me sad. I would not recommend it to anybody.
"He's got a woman's education but he's not a woman yet." - Leonard Cohen  ("Death of a Ladies' Man", 1978)
Oh I didn't know u were trans, wow.
Fuckin sexy video ay
Oh, and: Jordan Peterson > ContraPoints
This shit is gross. I tried to follow along, but clearly this person is mentaly ill. Goodbye. Incel.
Fuck those child molesting monsters we have come to know as Incels.
your classical music taste continues to impress me. Did you also have bougie parents who played you classical music as a kid? lol Great video as always <3
Who the fuck is this weird ass dude?  This shit's so weird.
First video and already hooked.
I thought it was "Baltimorese", not "Baltimorean".
I have viewed nothing quite like this before. But somehow, it has ended up in my recommended. And so far, I'm really enjoying it!
With the skull thing. It’s technically true that different groups of people have differently shaped heads, but those shapes are entirely meaningless and have little to no impact on behavior. Greyhounds, retrievers, and bulldogs all have the same potential to be good dogs. It’s more about how they’re raised than how they’re born.
That wrist thing really is something that has always bugged me. I've always worn sports wristbands because I feel so embarrassed about it
Here thanks... To Lindsay Ellis...and I'm glad amazing non average content!!!
i lost it at the david attenborough commentary 4:40
I mean, as odd as the comment may seem, I don't think you look "masculine" or whatever. You look elven and ethereal, like you're Galadriel.   Also im so glad I found your YouTube channel because hot damn I love
your incel video is so much better than mine 😭 (don't look for it, it's in spanish)
Thanks for making this video.👍🔥🔥
This is the first vidya I've seen of yours and I already love you so much.  Thank you for making art. 💕💕
*LDAR 💯*
This makes me want to go love bomb the incel community but I know as soon as I look at a thread I'll want to run away screaming. So I'll just direct my love at Natalie ❤︎❤︎❤︎❤︎❤︎
This video was so great! Also, Olly does such a good job with the American accents! 😁
You could also try porn.
i’ve spent a lot of time around the incel type of dude and i think their biggest problem is that they attribute their situation to their appearance instead of their complete lack emotional intelligence and maturity. they’re just dudes who stopped mentally aging when they were like 14.
...𝓐 𝓝 𝓐 𝓛
shut up ugly
I think I love you.
Studies show that men rate 50% of women as above average looking while women only rate about 20% of men as above average. I'm 6'3" tall and have thiiiiiick wrists so I get laid either way.
Isnt a fuckable skull more useful for gay men than straight men though?
Sooo good! Bravo!
34:11 Wouldn't that be incest?
This was really entertaining. BTW I didnt know you were trans until you said it in the vid. Well done :P
thanks for making these courageous and human-centric films
I knew nothing about incels. Very educational, I subscribed! Love you gorgeous.
This is probably ultra buried at this point but I just found this channel and it is so fucking good, I’m definitely watching all your videos. Seriously this is really good work
Is this guy trans?
I SUBBED! I appreciate how open you are. I think it's rare someone would open up about that. Also as a straight guy I'd totally smell those panties 😛
What was the problematic thing at 18:40?
Ok this video is everything
hahahaha, that was very great again. i do sometimes disagree with you (not on this one, i have no idea of incels), but every single video of yours is a piece of art. congratulations. and i also like your approach to poetry and beauty
These so-called "skull people". Are they some sort of pirates?
The fuck am I watching?
Hearing you say "Anal" made me fall in love.
Annnnd, subscribed.
I used to be an "incel" but then I got a gf and laid at 24. Then I realized that sex and female companionship isn't as great as I thought it was. Then I dumped my GF 3 months later.
ah yes, skullchan is my favourite /tttt hon
Remind me again how Roosh The Doosh has managed to get this far without being fired in to the sun?
i’m a woman, 22 years old, and i just had my first “intimate experience” a year ago (idk what to call it, bc it wasn’t “sex” in the traditional sense lol). idk why people think being a virgin is bad. it just means you haven’t had sex yet. you don’t suddenly become cool after having sex. it’s okay to be a late bloomer. do not let something relatively insignificant define your entire life. don’t let something like being a virgin rot you from the inside out. you are so much more than that.
new viewer here and i like your presentation. comparing your experience as a trans woman to an incel gave me a unique insight of the situation. You deserve my sub.
Nailed it. I totally have big head man worries... and now feel called out on it in a way that makes me feel like everything will be fine. Discovered your videos a couple of weeks ago; you are amazing. Thank you!
Pretty good video. Showing some sympathy is probably the best way to help these people.
I think a  key point from this video is one that you specifically stated but kind of brushed over, and its the idea of approach ability of a man. I thought it was really sweat of you to say something like that. Woman don't tend to express their reasons for why they dislike these men, because they tend to take a stance they they are not responsible for their circumstances ext (which isn't particularly productive). And unfortunately for those dudes a big reason is that they scaaaaaaare those ladies. RAWR but really, men who live in this depressed state tend to be afraid to confront people without realizing that the opposite is true for the people they interact with, and unfortunately there is plenty more evidence online of the woman who are fearful striking back in a more aggressive manor because they are afraid than a more understanding manor which is harder.  We complicate this shit but its easy. Men who are calling themselves incelibit are not that. They are regular celibate and sad that they haven't been able to connect with people and they don't blame woman, they fear them, because they don't know what it is they do wrong around them to make them feel that they aren't worth approaching ect.   Fight fear with friendship and this little problem will go away.  Fight it with fire and burn them away.... well do that and we get responses from wounded animals against walls.  Ergo visa vi
bravo!
Came for a video about incels, left as soon as I saw the commie and SJW shit on the rest of this channel.
The mentions of "bone structure" kept reminding me of this: https://youtu.be/qlg5InsskW4?t=45s :p
The manosphere exists because rock'n'roll is dead. I DIED!!!!!!!   Ps, I love you, gorgeous goddess! ;)
Just. Wow.
yass caress me daddy
Holy shit, these guys need to get laid.  Too bad they never will. Ha!
Insightful social analysis and dramatic lighting! I'm in love. Subscribed.
You're so deep, I fucking love your videos
“I’m ready to move on if you’re ready to forgive” 😂😂
Incels aren't redpill. They're black pill.
Are philosophy tube and contra going on dates tho? 🤔🤭
can we take one second to consider that maybe this is a social phenomenon and not just random guys being retarded?  like maybe there are social conditions that are leading to this problem where a significant number of guys can't find a partner and feel alienated from society and sometimes end up elliot rogering?  no? we're just gonna mock their pathetic misery? oh okay
I love you with every fiber of my being
I was sent here by lindsay ellis. I love her work and now i love yours too :)
Almost all the red pill features are black pill, not red. Although that may just be many people using the same terminology.
I’m pretty obsessed with you. You never consented to this. I’m sorry?
Is that the black sand beach in Iceland?
FUCK you! a-hole......>:(
TRP and Incels are both "red pill" philosophies but that's where the common ground ends. TRP believes you can trick women in to thinking that you're more attractive than you really are, Inceldom believes that's impossible.
first video i watch from you and i completly fell in love.
Imagine the walls of her tight, soft, warm (bleep)........every inch of your (bleep)
Incels aside... We know that different races are... different. We have as much biodiversity as any other animal on the planet. We recognize some dogs are smarter/better at certain things, while others aren't, or have their own set of specialized evolved skills.  Humans are no different, we have a ton of biodiversity, and thanks to our intelligence, we're capable of even acknowledging certain issues we may have, and doing everything we can to work against it, which does go a long way, but we're still limited by our genetics to some degree, even outside just the idea of racial groups. We've even found links between genetics and violent crime (across all races)...  Incels and racist take this shit too far and use it as an excuse to judge every single individual of whatever group, but it doesn't make these things completely inaccurate though. Scientific knowledge is neither good nor evil, it's the human use of it that can make it good or evil, and sadly, a lot of douche bags do choose to use it for evil... But it is reality. Genetics, race, IQ, aggression, predisposition to criminal behavior... etc... and of course a degree of environment, culture, etc, all tied togther, all factors to be considered.   Pigmentation and melanocrotin system apparently has a link to aggression and other things.   I get how this shit can be uncomfortable and the initial reaction is to have an emotional knee jerk and reject it, but the evidence is pretty substantial. We gotta accept this shit as a reality if want to change anything for the better... We're getting to a point to start modifying this shit anyways, but we can't do that if we ignore these things, and throw up ethical arguments against even looking at it.
anal...  Haha Fuck this made me chuckle so hard
I look at insults because my ego is too big and I want to motivate myself to actually improve myself, like go to the gym.
You're hot.
I don't want to sound weird or anything and I totally get consulting for facial surgery to make you look how you feel inside. I just didn't realise that you're transgender until you said it properly. You're really pretty and your face looks perfectly feminine to me. Admittedly, I am a bisexual girl and I'm not keyed in for avoiding transgender women the way some hetereosexual dudes are. I just wanted to give you a compliment about how hot you are without being someone trying to snorfle your panties, because even though I would get coffee, us girls have to stick together and give compliments. Have a nice day! <3
NEW FAVORITE YOUTUBER!
I think now I'm sexually attracted to rain
im love u
Y'know, in a horrible way, I empathize with the incels because I recognize how easily I could've gone down that road. Life sucks, most people are lonely, at one point I just had to realize that and try to move on. Still it's really strange to  look at something horrible and see a part of yourself in it. Anyways, try not to worry too much, you're very beautiful and feminine. Keep up the good work.
[redacted]
You are actually the best YouTuber. This got recommended for me and IM OBSESSED WITH YOU!
>>Desperately wants to get laid >>Calls his preffered sex femoid  wot?  I mean I aint gettin any either, but still... Wot?
Thank you so much for making such an open and personal video for a group of people that will probably never hear your message.  If you keep one 15 year old kid from spiraling into a pit of depression and self loathing you will truly be doing good work.
they qualified themselves with a world defining a momentary state of their experience? This deluge of self-hating people in the world is frighting.
even though i love your videos natalie theres a sort of dreadlike substance that makes me slow to watch them, maybe it’s the length or just the quality of them being good and worthy of thought, but it’s something a few of my friends and i have stumbled across. i guess its a futile address if i don’t know more about it, because long, researched videos are definitely a good thing... i don’t know. Good video
Amazing execution of the video direction and lucid delivery! Hats off!
Your style and makeup here are worthy of celebration. Not to mention your voice, which combines sarcasm and soothing with astounding grace. Natalie, ContraPoints, etc...I want to be as lovely as you are! Thanks for another A+ commentary through a controversial topic.
The fact that within their descriptions of women they don't even acknowledge women older then 30, literally shows how ridiculous they are. When I was 18, I had to deal with these types CONSTANTLY. Guys who saw me as a commodity thus treated me as such, and would become rage fulled with it became apparent that I did not want any type of sexual relationship. The these older men looked at me made me so uncomfortable and disgusted.  Now, these are the younger generation of the same mentality except they have a platform to communicate. They might talk about how equally attractive women should be with guys who are the same level of attractiveness. However, they do not even bother going after anything other than what they perceive at the most desirable women. They are just salty because they think they deserve a 10/10 young fit gorgeous girl, yet they treat women of "similar attractiveness" like trash.
te amo
Don't know how I stumbled on this but I watched all of it, so, so well done on such a great topic too.
22:22 SURPRISE ASMR!
ah yes other forms of misogyny
This is my first time seeing a video of yours! I have heard your name before, and I thought I heard that you were a trans-woman, but I was a bit confused when the video started about whether or not what I heard was true because I thought you looked like a biological woman. So I just wanted to say that you're very pretty, and I love the way you do your outfits and make-up for these videos!
This is so great. You really have exceptional skill as an orator. Keeping a viewer interested for 35 minutes on a topic that I and others would rather pretend doesn't exist is no mean feat.  *Edit* I'm always afraid to watch/read anything about self loathing. I worry that it will inspire the same feelings in me. That may sound silly. The fear of being 'infected' by someone's else's mental issues, but Lord knows I have feelings of inadequacy too and stories of people driving themselves to murder/suicide over them is something I never want to know about. But that being said, I'm still really glad I watched this video. There's great advice to be had here and I suspect it would do a lot of people good if they saw it.
What the hell is wrong with this person's voice? They sound like a man trying to make a girl's voice!
Your comment about being trans on tinder made me laugh so hard I started crying. I was on tinder as a both a “heterosexual girl” and a pansexual man before I met my current fiancé. This is a long winded way of me saying “subbed”.
You're so haawwwttt.😍 I loved your video.  Looking forward for more. 😊  That transgender skull segment almost made me cry...to this day i still obsess over my masculine massive head.
Very nice video. Love everything about it... The educated essay, The sincere attempt to reach out to struggling men who will likely hate you for what you are, and just the video editing itself.  You got a subscriber!
Holy shit what an awful fucking video, just get your fucking point across and stop wasting my time.
I didn't know this was a thing and now i kinda wish i didn't.
Just... Thank you We need more people like you, and people should recognize and teach others to overcome digital self-harm (as well as other kind of self harm)
Remember a few years ago when radical feminists were attacking 'nice guys' because they weren't really nice at all but more like pick up artist who believed in "doing nice things for someone so that she will have sex with me, because women do or should reward niceness with sex"? Did the Nice Guys™ become the Incels? Wasn't it one of Elliot Rodger's complaints that he was a nice guy but still couldn't get a girlfriend?
omg you are amazing, i am so happy i found your video, and am subscribing now <3
Hmnm....you might hate me...but I don't call trans peeps trans women. My buddy Lou called himself a genderbender....he did have a goatee and makeup. We got along great til he killed himself after getting busted. We went to a drag bar to chill a lot but I was mostly there for high grade drugs. the employees had the cleanest, most reasonably priced drugs in town and Lou performed there too. My point here is that I don't think it's hateful or disrespectful to quibble about sematics. I've loved every gay, bi, or cross dressing friend I've had....a few stopped liking because I guess I don't go to enough pride marches.......1 stopped talking to me because she thought my music was offensive.....granted a lot of people find EyehateGod offensive...but, most are rhe same chritian nutcases that gave her shit for munchin carpet in our close-minded, rural, hamlet. I think anyone should be able to marry anyone they love...or at least any willing partner they want to. I define a woman purely in terms of genetics and I use this guideline primarily for speech....and deciding who I'm gonna try to fuck, screw, make luv to, ect, ect...or enter into romatic relationships with. hopefully my terminology doesn't trigger you, and I apologise if I have offended you.
Seriously, just look around you guys! There are horribly ugly people of both(please, just work with me here) sexes getting laid night and day, they unfortunately even reproduce at an alarming rate! Yes obviously there are lots of attributes that are _generally_ viewed as favorable and will thus _generally_ increase your chances. For instance, I'm short as fuck(172cm), which is not exactly a "favourable attribute" on Tinder, still I somehow manage to get laid from time to time... Explain that! ;)
Good Stuff. Appreciate that you've got some preference for the firing squad of dicks.  Radio silence, and every person who does talk to you trying as quickly as possible to blacklist you is way more disconcerting.
I'm so late to this comment section but I had to comment on this one. I wasn't expecting to find any part of this video relatable or evocative in any way other than anger, disgust and maybe pity towards incels, but the parts about the masochistic epistemology are something I've never been able to put into words but that I feel very deeply. I teared up watching this video. Thanks for inspiring me to take a little better care of myself online, and helping me question why I always manage to look for the grain of truth in even the most disgusting ideas to make myself feel bad. Looking forward to more of your work.
So happy I watched this. Subbed. Also "our dark mother, the sea," quotable as fuck.
Natalie, your blend of well-researched, unbiased analysis (and rightful condemnation of what deserves condemning) combined with an empathy that diagnoses the cause of the sickness is exactly what the left needs. You combat toxic ideologies by arguing in good faith and treating people as human beings. You've made an avid fan.
LMAOOOOO omg i love this video . it explains exactly what i needed to know , all with the correct humor. also i wasnt sure if you were trans but honestly i dont care. your intellect and wit overshadows that.. hmmm.. lessons for incels? lol!
Sounds like they're all just big downers.. _If you can make her laugh, you can make her gasp_ :^)
The Tucker Carlson of liberalism.
This is one of the greatest things I have ever seen yet also disturbingly upsetting.
I really enjoyed this video
WHY WAS THIS "RECOMMENDED" TO ME, YOUTUBE
I'm now an oceansexual
thst intro has me SCREAMING
Extremely well put together. What a breath of fresh air on this site!
Is she he or she?
Jesus chalupa, this video was an experience. On-point humor, deep insights into digital self-harm (a thing i didn't know existed), and, ah, I think I'm attracted to the ocean now?
Fourth base?  Fifth base????  This baseball metaphor usage just doesn't sound right, if you live in Baltimore I'm sure you know better!  There has to be a better way to include anal in the classic baseball scoring metaphor... 2-run homer? Grand Slam?  Homer off the foul pole?  After anal, the pole has been sufficiently fouled, right?  Seriously, thanks for a great video on an interesting topic.
How does one become a masculine bread scientist.
This is the first of your videos I've seen and it's fucking awesome. Subscribed!
this is absolute gold. this is the best thing I have ever seen on this garbage website.
While I never went incel, I was a total obnoxious "Nice Guy" who was heading down the path of "blackpill" a couple years ago. I've snapped out of it since, and I'm so damn glad I did. Great video!
Hey ContraPoints, do you think RSDTyler or Natural Lifestyles are necessarily bad?
there are only two skull types. change my mind.
This was the first of your videos I've watched after several people recommending you. I'm so excited to watch the rest! You're engaging, funny and gorgeous. Keep it up.
Fucking fantastic. Subscribed.
I feel like you should just find people who are cool with your dick? I feel like that's going to seriously affect your sexual satisfaction if you get it surgically removed.
...this is probably not helpful, but I couldn't help being distracted during this whole video by how with your on-point make-up and lighting here, you look like Winona Ryder.  Like, every 5 seconds I'd zone out what you were saying cause I just kept thinking about how much you look like Winona Ryder.    ANYWAY, more "serious" note...I think the pressure to be hyper-feminine is a transphobic sentiment that bleeds over onto cis women as well.  I'm a cis woman, and I remember feeling insecure AS A PRE-TEEN because I got it into my head that my voice was too low and "boy-like".  And of course many cis-women, including myself, don't have perfectly delicate features and are considered "ugly" for it (this sometimes crosses over with racism and ant-semitism,  but that's a whole other can of worms).  For trans-women, I imagine the stakes are much higher, and compounded by a whole host of other societal pressures and insecurities.    I guess I would say that I don't think trans-women, or any women, should have to "pass" as "feminine" to be considered women, or to be worthy of love and respect.  I'll try and restrain myself from spouting any empty platitudes, since I know how useless that can be from some anonymous stranger dumb-ass on the internet, but just know that I wish you all the best, whatever you choose in the future.  Some assholes will always be assholes, but I'm certainly "convinced" that you are a woman, and it has nothing to do with what you look like (that's just a bonus).    Not that my opinion matters--I'm just another anonymous doofus on the internet--but as someone who struggles with insecurities about my own appearance, I try to remember that my value isn't based on that, even if the world sometimes acts like it does.  A big revelation for me was when I realized that I DIDN'T really want cosmetic surgery--all those things that I was insecure about, like my crooked nose and big forehead, were things I could conceivably change if I really tried.  But then I wouldn't "look like me" anymore, and I didn't like that.  I may not be that pretty, but that's MY crooked nose and big forhead, y'know?  From what I understand, you and women like you are trying to look more like yourselves, to be seen as what you are, and who you are.  That doesn't mean you have to look a certain way, a "feminine" way, a conventionally "hot" or "pretty" way, if that's not what's right for you, if that particular indicator of "femininity" doesn't "fit" for you in particular.  You're still women.    Sorry for long comment, ignore my ramblings, this train of thought got away from me.  Thank you for your videos.
Loved your video! Youre a very smart person with a lot of insight. Knowing yourself is one of the most important kind of intelligence, and through your words and research i've found things that i didnt kniw abput myself, even in a topic so far from my own experience as a cis woman, so thanks for that. Also honestly if you hadnt said that you used to be a man i would have never imagined, you are gorgeous! Imma binge watch your channel now hahahaha
I like this chick
This is fucking fantastic.
I had no idea she was trans until she said it
What I wanna know is: Say by some cosmic chance, a woman with standards so low they reach Infra-standards (hypothetical standards so low that many may believe this *FEEEEEEMOID* may infact have no standards) comes along and decides to sleep with one of these Comic Book Guy cosplayers, say they actually find 10 men strong enough to move the Mascoid's gut high enough to engage in what science can loosely call intercouse while not crushing the *FEEEEEMOID* in the process (though one of those brave souls may die) Let the masochistic image of ones of these MundaneMatt-lookalikes blowing the Man Bazooka Juice up in the *FEEEEEMOID* and actually claiming that they have infact "mated" while the whole earth prays that an offspring does not occur... *Then what?*  If sex is so important to them to the point of wanting sexual marxism and mandatory sex, what happens afterwards? Do they stay the same or do they start to better themselves? Technically they wouldn't be an incel so would they change?
4:26 .... Oh I get it!
Honestly? Thank you!
Amazing video! I was wondering if anyone knows where I can do some more research about incels and incel culture. I'm a therapist who has ran into the topic of digital self harm and I'm looking for some guidance.
All it takes is a few seconds to Google and you can find enough evidence that labia layout has nothing to do with promiscuity.   "Roasties" indeed.   But why believe hard science when I can listen to hundreds of sexually frustrated men?  I also find it funny how they tend to  hate socialism because it's advocated by those with little and yet they're proponents of "redistribution of sex" because they're virgins without girlfriends. The hypocrisy is tasteable.  Another great video, ContraPoints.
Sucks to be these guys, I'm ugly and I gets hella hoe--I mean women
Not sure I count as an incel. I haven't had much vaginal intercourse in the last decade. I have a girlfriend. We were both sexually abused for extended periods of our youth. She provides footsex and I have a foot fetish so that helps. I try to give her oral but she thinks her pussy is disgusting which I disagree with. Most vaginas...in my experience...have a metallic scent that I find strong but, intoxicating. I've made it clear that I would never force her to do anything she truly doesn't want to do....any physical activity requires some coaxing. I have referred to vaginas as roast beef-looking but I've never made this point to suggest the women who owned them were slutty. My use of the comparison is just referring to how the outer lips (labia majora I think) sometimes share coloration with deli roast beef. That is, more pinkish towards the center, darkening towards the outside, to almost black. Not all pussies look this way...some do, and I haven't noticed a connection between this and slutty women. To be clear I say slut to refer to a woman that gets into a clearly defined monogamous relationship under the pretense of understanding that's what she's doing. If this woman screws 10 or 15 other guys in 1 month, while trying to hide these affairs....then yeah she's a slut. I've been in many long term relationships  I've dated women that fuck up....ask for a second chance and I've always asked if they are sure. Do they want to be exclusive....do you want to try and share our lives. They all said yes. Some continued fucking everything with legs and I eventually learned they were slutty jerks that apparently didn't want to hurt my feelings...at least...not to my face. I expect men to be loyal under the same conditions. It's fine if people want to have open relationships...I tried that shit and tried to kill myself twice because it made me feel jealous and worthless....so it doesn't seem healthy for me. idk....am I an incel....I don't care much for lables anyway....I don't feel like I fit in any where...most ppl in general make me feel like a bug under a magnifying glass. My GF and our pets...and other animals are the only beings I feel truely comfortable around. Your the one with a YouTube channel....you tell me if I qualify as incell.
I'm a 35 year old straight white male... virgin.  Yeah, sure, I'll openly admit it. And yeah, sure I'll say I've had my sexual frustrations because of it. I've lived under the lonely Asperger rock my entire life. :P  But I've never attributed my virginity to my happiness or well being. Loneliness maybe.... But never the fact on whether I'm getting laid or not. Sex does not = happiness. Sex is an act of pleasure and a necessity for procreation, that is it.  Your companionship with your significant other aught to be a close loving friendship. Sex can be a benefit of that relationship, but it should never be the primary reason for it.  All that being said, I've viewed the incel and MGTOW movements to be horribly toxic and negative influences (much like I view certain far left SJW movements, but thats for another discussion.)  There are far more better and positive things out there to hyper-focus on. I would advise seeking them out and avoiding these negative hate groups like the plague.  Nameste.
Fantastic video as always, mommy! How do you even manage it? Lightning, set, make-up on fucking point. Re: Vocabulary, I'm thinking it's a prerequesite almost to creating a specific kind of worldview - so let's say we all think in a certain language, using the terms we most commonly use and see used. These in turn represent concepts, which are basically a raw representation of the world. Since the current words in use are generally well defined by cultural background (contexts, types of significances and even the mood associated) and as such are less malleable, creating a new set of words basically allows the immediate association of those words to some new, extreme concepts with their use surrounding the users in a world where those notions take center stage, immediately adapting them to the person and creating an environment where their use is not only normal but also correct. TL;DR - If anyone tries to introduce new terms for extremized versions of stuff that's already there - be very heckin' skeptical! That's a fairly worn but surprisingly efficient manipulation tehnique.
I was an incel for a long time, then I asked "would I date/fuck myself".   Well, suffice to say, I came to an inmportant realisation. I feel human now
This is the first video of yours I've ever seen. Hadn't even heard of you before.   I had zero idea that you were trans. I legitimately thought you were a cis woman until you said otherwise. So don't worry about your skull.  Also the video was great, and the parallels between the incel and trans communities were enlightening.
I have experienced the fire squad of dicks when I was hyper feminine and the silence now that I'm out as nonbinary and more androgynous and gender nonconforming in my expression. It's weird. I also feel it with weird first messages asking about genitals.
9:30 correction, hypergamy doesn't refer to attractiveness because (forgive me, I just researched this) women think they're 10's
5:30 Where did you get that wig? <3 <3 <3
it seems like anxiety and depression being exploited by others in order to validate not getting help or improving themselves in any way. its really sad in a way
Why does it sound like you've gotten Olly to read hate-porn?
Hey, does anyone know the string piece that plays at the very beginning??
best explanation of incels ive ever seen, and a very humane one :) (but also i love your outfit a whole lot)
This is going to be a long comment, heads up!   I kind of sympathize with incels to some extent. I'm not one for women hating or blaming and I disagree with a lot of the beliefs they have because a lot of it is self-defeating or toxic. What I do relate to is the feeling of inferiority, especially when it comes to looks and how you've been judged/rejected for it. I've been made fun of for my looks, so i really understand that dysmorphia they have. I look significantly older than everyone else my age. I hit puberty really early. I could grow a full beard at 14. I'm 20 now, but people think I'm more closer to 30. Girls used to say that I looked too old to date them or that I was a pedo. If it wasn't how old I looked, it was my physical features. I was fat, mind you but it was never really something people made fun of for me as much even though it definitely makes me unattractive to a good chunk of girls.   What I was made fun of was my teeth. I have some fucked up buck teeth! They are healthy and pearly white, but because my family used up a lot of the insurance to fix their more severe problems, I never had braces. My sister cost my parents $400,000 in dental because her issues were much worse than my purely aesthetic reasons for braces.   Last but not least, my jawline is shit! Even though I went through puberty at a young age and got a lot of testosterone, I severely burned my chin as a child on a stove. Since it damaged the tissue, my chin never grew in well and I cover up the scars with facial hair. My dad had an amazing chin, so I might have had one too if it weren't for that. The thing is, I probably wouldn't care that much at all if I wasn't bullied over my chin. I was lucky enough to have facial hair in my teen years, because whenever I shaved PEOPLE noticed and a couples of girls who said they thought I was okay-ish looking IMMEDIATELY retracted their statements.    Middle-school and high school really fucked me up on how I perceive myself. I was voted the ugliest guy in school in an anonymous poll, below even those with mental disabilities (which was super fucked up people actually included them on such a list). I got rejected so fucking much and still do. I've only had one girlfriend but she dumped me because she didn't find me physically attractive. I guess the difference with me and incels is that I never stopped trying and keep trying to better myself.   I wish I had some kind of happy ending like "Now I have a beautiful girlfriend and I'm no longer a virgin!" but I can say that my life has improved after therapy and getting out of toxic places (fuck high school). I still have trouble dating wise as I still get rejected a lot, but I have a great group of friends and I'm pursuing my passions such as music and cars. I also started to dress like how I wanted instead of being fearful of how people would judge which in turn has benefited me because people like my style. I found a lot of validation with my sub-culture, including getting to know some of my favorite musicians personally. People know me and like me for who I am. Girls appreciate my personality, but I still haven't had much success in attracting them romantically even though I have a lot of friends who are girls. I'm still a hopeless virgin, but it hasn't ruined my life. I do what I want to do and feel fulfilled. The worst thing that can happen in improving yourself is that you'll just create a better life for yourself even if you can't find love. Having a generally good life but no love is a better outcome than not having both.   Thank you for whoever read this,  Cheers
the black pill ideology is why women are not gonna want to date them, you have to love yourself and be a positive person for people to want to be around you, if you are constantly negative all the time of course people are gonna reject you.
"Thank you skull-people for showing me the way"
I think I got cancer after watching this whole video. I kind of want to die more than I did 40 minutes ago.
I really admire your empathy towards men on dating sites. The radio silence can be very painful.   To be clear, there have only been TWO mass murderers who claimed to be incels. That's two too many, but you make it sound like it's an epidemic.   Lastly, you keep getting hotter with each new video.
Not that I'm interested, I'm asking purely out of curiosity but where exactly is this cock carousel?
12:13 “Mum, Dad... I bake bread.”
12:10 This guy has me DEAD 😂😂 He’s like “guys... I bake bread... AND I have a penis... mind blowing, right? BUT IT’S NOT FEMININE! IT’S SCIENCE! WHICH IS TOTALLY A MAN THING! IT’S MAN BAKING” like bitch u and ur weak ass masculinity just need to take a chill pill 😂😂
Great summary - of the TRUTH (the incels are right)! :)  And great vid, great editing, great flow, great humor, great actual research, THANKS  And blackpill reading effect is true, i got it   One thing: Incels don't believe pickup is an answer, they think it's a scam.  What can help a bit is plastic surgery.
don't fucking call me out like this Natalie. trans woman in stealth who spent years on 4chan complaining about my stature and skull and bone structure holy shit
Serious question, where (outside of a large city) does one go to make female friends ages 188-25?  Because, seriously, in a small town I'm struggling to find anyone less than 2 hours away from me, and creeping around the local college without being a drug dealer seems fucking weird.
31:18 “5th Base” *whispers* “...anal” 😂😂
but I hate the sea
Are you sure you don't mean masochistemology?
I couldn't watch the intro, and having skipped that, I'm giving up at 10:27. I was once called a "normie" by someone online, now I get what they're talking about, and I'm happy not to be part of this revolting worldview. I went without female companionship from time to time as a teen and young adult, but I never blamed women for that - or tried to recategorise all human beings according to a point system of sexual relations. This is some sick stuff here. But thanks for bringing it to light.
MGTOW isn't voluntary celibacy, they abstain from marriage and committed relationships. Just some nitpicking.
That gave a sea boner, it’s sad that the internet which had such potential to bring people together has become an echo chamber of hate for all these toxic groups
Yeah, thanks for the "hon" thing. I must now create a new board called "THeHeHe."
I've not seen any of your stuff before but this was genuinely very interesting. I'm probably jaded by youtube as I assumed this video would be a surface level rant but it was actually very insightful and level headed.
Why do I have weird tingles right now?  I mean it's raining outside but other then that...
i just found your channel, because i spend way to much time watching incel vids and just wanted to tell you that, i think you're beautiful and such an inspo and i hope you have good confidence and feel good about the way that you look. Your vids are awesome and put together so well and i think it's so amazing that you're open about your transition and while it's not something i can directly relate to, it;s still very inspiriing and i hope you give hope to others that are looking to transition as well.
LMAO I LOVE ALL OF THIS. YOU. THE EDITING. THE HUMOR. and your confidence ♥
Omg appreciate the shoutout 🙌 #lesbianstan
man that baking guy is such a good example of toxic masculinity. if you've got to do mental gymnastics in order to make yourself feel okay with doing baking you know your worldview is fucked up.
the digital self harm concept is fascinating and reminds me of how, as an insecure teenage girl, I used to frequently consume red pill/mgtow/mra content.
I feel like a lot of these points are also similar to spaces of eating disorders and particularly anorexia. I've watched all of your videos because a) your amazing and b) when you talk about your transition experiences and anxieties it reminds me a lot of the bodily discomfort I've had throughout my life and all the different forms my body has taken via different types of eating disorders. Its like rather then realizing I am not in the gender I feel most comfortable in, recovery from anorexia has meant me having to like or even enjoy a body that I don't trust but am learning to and embracing a self that I define rather then let society prescribe to me. I've been trying to do research on these similarities or these shared paths of anxiety regarding relating to your body and your relationships but haven't found very much. Do you know anything about this? Also this video in particular was really powerful in showing me that this Incel community space is similar to how a lot of eating disorder people I've known have talked about themselves. The internet has similar communities for eating disorders where you post pictures looking to be fat shamed or skinny shamed or whatever and the constant doubt that anyone is ever being honest with you when they call you attractive. I'm rambling but yeah--thank you, you are great and I'm glad to get to listen to you talk about things and learn things from/with you.
Quite alot in this video is true and accurate (nothing really new tho), its just a bit ironic since its a tranny making it.
this is scary, 200 years plus we still care about skulls
arnt you a boy though? i dont care.. you do you, boo boo
Getting better everytime ❤️ Keep up with your work! Ps: when the heterosexual phase ends, remember you will always be my internet crush hahahahhaha
All this incel stuff is so premeditated in Notes from The Underground. Geesh.
"Chads of colour"
You are the best, and you continue to show your worth. I love it!  I shout-laughed a couple times, despite such a dark and pressing issue. Yay for rational thought delivered in a funny and interesting way.
your voice is so nice to listen to, and the video is so interesting ! i'm subscribing 💕
technically incels are considered blackpills because redpill people believe there are ways to improve your status, like exercising, improving style, leaving the internet and improving your life etc.
The cut to Tiffany Tumbles is so perfect for the point you were illustrating and is definitely one of the creepiest parts of the video. Nicely done.
“Imagine how a woman feels...”  *raises hand*   ...mighty uncomfortable? 😰
This was awesome, spot on
Also -- goddamn if you didn't masterfully combine actual research with humor and satire, and your voice was the perfect pitch to be soothing and interesting without being annoying to listen to.  You should totally read audiobooks or have a meditation podcast, you'd probably be fabulously wealthy before the year is out.
I think that selfloathing might have something to do with people participating in these forums.   Personally I believe that the main reason is that they are looking for someone to reaffirm to them that what they want but find difficult to achieve for whatever reason is unobtainable. It takes the pressure of and helps them feel better about not doing anything about their problem.   For many people it's more comfortable to stay in a bad situation than to change their habits. If someone is there to say. "It's ok, it's no use anyway." they don't have to feel guilty about not trying.
talking about paris hilton? wtf.. that just proves these men know NOTHING about women.
There is no such thing as this mythical, whimsical "Incel". I will downvote this video as well as others circle the drain on this same subject and similar subjects, because everyone of them ostensibly misses the real issue and/or diverts attention away from the true issue via obfuscation fallacies and moving of the goalposts.  It is just another curious case of a Internet culture and a decadent society so often in the West and even abroad, and its peculiar and incessant obsession with labels, identifiers and monikers. But, once the label and moniker has finally mades its rounds along rabbit hole that is the Interwebs it has successfully imbedded itself in the psyche   This video is almost utterly useless with the sole exception being that it helps highlight this twisted, insane, banal internet culture and Internet forums! Once again, the main issue is always diverted away from the true problem or diagnosis.  The US and most of the West and even the world is heavily mind-controlled, with mass mind-control propaganda permeating everywhere, nearly everything and in every facet of modern society, just as Cathy O'Brien and Mark philips in their book, "TranceFormation of America", have described it as. Elliot Rodgers was not some non-existent "Incel"! He was, I am 100% certain a victim of mind-control from a pervasive and perverse Hollywood elite culture that sucks the the very soul from your being. Elliot came from a rich Hollywood father and he drove around in a BMW, obviously provided via his rich financial standing, and he expected women to throw themselves at him, thats not an "incel" that is a poor deluded individual possibly suffering from Mk-Ultra/Project Monarch or other trauma based mind control.  There have been millions of virginal men and even women throughout all of recorded human history, and not ONE of them has been slapped with this label an "incel" (there's that weaselly moniker and label again). Were Isaac Newton and Nikola Tesla both incels because they never married and reportedly never layed with a women? Or, are they exempt because they were both scientific geniuses? So therefore, I dismiss it.
God, this was really uncomfortable to watch...
i don't know what ur name is but i want u to be my mom. thanks bye
Very insightful, well-articulated, thought-provoking, and OMG, your shirt is so SPARKLY and FABULOUS, I want it...
lady, you got a sub just after this video
Fuckable skulls you say?... interesting.
Even if they literally can't "get" sex, why is it THAT important? Why not just play the guitar, or draw something nice, or get really into microprocessors? If I knew, 100%, no more sex, I wouldn't be all obsessed with it. Hell, it kinda felt like that when I was a teenager. But I still had a great time. MsPaint, street hockey, masturbation, counterstrike, reading "deep" books while wearing a trenchcoat, the Misfits, video game emulators, beer, a pet iguana... Was a pretty sweet time. If my wife left me and all the world decided that my skull is un-fuckable, I wouldn't kill anybody. I would just hang out. Maybe start writing fanfiction. I should write fanfiction. I fucking love Jafar.
This video was very informative and good at addressing the issues. I admire the fact that you actually dig into how it feels on various sides, instead of just assuming anyone who identifies as "incel" has no reason for doing so.  P. S. I think you're quite feminine and lovely, and I'm not just saying that because everyone says it!
I was turned on up until 1:12... guys when you lack confidence women don't want you no matter what you look like.
I wanted to fall through the floor during the entirety of the first minute and twenty-five seconds.
Is this one hot tranny or is it just me?
Youtube recommended this to me, and I'm super impressed at whatever algorithm they are using!   subscribing!
I thought this video was going to be about Incels and I jokingly called myself that without looking too much into it for a long time. To realize it was about self-loathing and the way we keep our mentalities down by finding any community, maybe because of the loneliness, and the comments those communities make are at least interactions. Being so desperate to fit in, and then knowing how desperate and sad you are, and have people tell you that you are indeed desperate and sad... made me sad.   I don't know why I did it to myself, but you made me want to give up listening and going to those toxic communities. I have a new definition for the phrase, "Toxic community" it has more to do with how I experience it than how people are.
I completely lost it at 'squeezing life out of your sacred passage' 😂
Every angry loser needs to watch this channel
16:31 "so many mass murderers" as in: two.  ok, granted: those are two too much. but just go compare that with other death cult ideologies plz. as in: death cult ideologies whose reasons are not even understandable, for any rational mind. you know what i am talking about, don't you?  apart from that: interesting perspective.
Funny thing is when I heard about the 3 paths for men (incel, normie or chad), all I could think was... You know, it would be resolved if a 'normie' would date a real feminist. You know, someone who has their own job, won't take money from you & won't get married without a prenum (or makes more than you).   Also, in this theory, there have to be a bunch of 'forever alone' women, right? If all of the women would go after 20% of the men? Yeah, I get that those 20% sleep around a lot, but if they have that many options, why go for the 'more unattractive' women in this picture?
I love your style. Just had to say that. Great vid.
>Ridiculous muppet falsetto hybrid of Mickey Mouse and Winnie The Pooh Goodbye my sides. You will be missed.
Holy frick this video was really great and insightful, great job!!!! O:
Wow a narcissist says they won't make fun of incels, then proceeds to make a video with disdain for them dripping from every word, not even touching the criticisms about men being enslaved and impoverished  by the state via family courts.  Only stopping to empathize with them on stuff that directly effected him as a man.
Let me measure your skull baby...
Never realised before but you look a bit like Winona Ryder.
Lol, crypto liberals getting triggered that low statue males are rejecting their lies about dating being fair and not stratified like everything else under capitalism.
is this a guy or girl
I have no words for how fantastic this is.
Damn, I wasn’t expecting to find any self-truths in a video about incels- but the masochistic epistemology truth bomb smacked me in the face. Excellent video, can’t wait to watch more!
I disagree with your opinions on JP, but I really liked this video :)
Considering that recent Armored Skeptic video about conspiracy theorists who believe every celebrity is trans and justify it at least partially by skull shape, you might be right. Also your masochism talk probably explains why I look for white supremacist and MRA comments in Shaun videos....
Ha ha ha this video made me laugh!
ALL PRAISE OUR MOTHER THE HOLY SEA
I would love to see a version of Hamlet in which he is an Incel and he does the soliloquy holding a skull and saying "To Chad or not to Chad". (I know that the skull doesn't appear in the soliloquy scene, but okay)
Mep Riod, Krill zel Femoid.
Why does it seem like the incels are always white racist males who blame other races?
Btw know this note is probably not called for at all, but you're absolutely gorgeous and femme AF and it's so sad that there's so many trans people who feel they don't look either feminine or masculine enough. It's absolutely horrible.
"enjoy your new life as a breadmaker, i mean "BREAD SCIENTIST'." Classssic
This is a weird combination of being exceptionally compelling uncomfortable viewing.  ...I like it.
If all discourse was as nuanced as yours the internet'd be a better place.
Is this person trans
Nah you've got this all wrong, it's far more simple than any of this.  The standards for women from men require you to have a hole and be breathing with ability to pretend to have emotion. The standards for men from women is that you resemble Channing Tatum, be slightly richer than the Koch Brothers, and be able to trade blow for blow mentally with at least 3 out of the 5 top astrophysicist alive at the moment.........................for the first date of coarse.
34:56 Shoutout to stressed depressed and badly dressed. Keep strong!
I am a communist. Exploitation pissed me off...
Loving this video so much, +ContraPoints .  You're fantastic and absolutely hilarious. And I just reaally wanna ask you where you got your blouse in 11:58 from? It's so pretty! <3 Keep up the good work :)
Uuuuubgghhh digitally hurrrt meeee morrre uuuuooooooo hahahahah
My fucking god if your so weak that a bunch of cave dwellers on a forum post sight “effects your mental health “ you’re to weak and spoiled to even live through or understand reality. Ffffffffuck that’s incredibly cringy. It’s almost as bad as this gay dudes fake woman voice.
this is I feel like such an important perspective to have on the incel issue like I'm not going to pander to misogynistic men but I understand through the shit the society gives "incel" men and how that leads to them feeling like they do and I think it's so much better to unpack and understnad why they feel like they do then to just make fun of them cause that just makes it worse
Incels mostly don't get radio silence, they just don't want woman who they say are not attractive. They claim to be a community of involuntary celibacy, but they are mostly misogynistic begging choosers. See, unless someone has a fetish for misogynistic men who don't shower and have a fuckton of smegma, of course nobody will want to get it with you, because it's truly disgusting for most people. So, I don't have sympathy for misogynistic men, incels are misogynistic just like the chads and the nice guys. I wouldn't care if they all laid down sand rotted honestly, that's what people who think we are just an object deserve, since they seem to think that I'm just a cum dumpster.
Atleast it’s a funny mentally handicapped queer.
the dick makes it better
your videos are so aesthetically pleasing and atmospheric, it’s really unique and almost ethereal. i also enjoyed how this video didn’t just make fun of incels, but full on psychoanalyzed them. 12/10 you’ve earned a sub.
The wrist guy is def a troll.
Omg I literally had no Idea you were trans until you said so! You are so beautiful!
This is the most entertaining and honest and well written analysis on inceldom I've seen on YT. Subbed. All the kudos to you.  BTW, you're really attractive and I wouldda never guessed you were a transperson, and even then I wouldn't have cared.
Wtf this video was good as hell
"The chads with the fuckable skulls-" Okay let me stop you right there. I've been on the internet long enough to unfortunately know that "fuckable skulls" can be taken in a very literate sense in some circles and I dare say not even the incels want to be fucked *that* way. Unless they're already dying and it's their last chance at any kind of sex.
Do you think TTTTs and Incels are symptomatic of the same basic thing: the fact that female sexuality is highly valued in our society compared to male sexuality?
I’m 10 seconds in and I don’t think I can go anymore because of the amount of cringe I feel. I’m sorry LOL
Long before you came out, I was having trouble with pronouns when recommending your videos to friends because I kept saying 'she' even though at the time you insisted on being merely a male crossdresser. It was a relief when you came out and retroactively proved my girl-dar wasn't broken
phrenology ASMR when
I don't understand why these men are wasting their time pining for these hot, type-a women who have zero interest in them. There are plenty of cute, introverted girls who they would be far more compatible with. Just look on OkCupid or other dating sites, they are out there!
Natalie, I just wanted to say that each time I watch a video of yours, I feel that I learn something really important. You have a depth of insight that is incredibly enriching. Thank you for continuing to do what you do.
Incels consider Peterson's advice to be "blue-pilled nonsense". The idea that cleaning your room or at least trying to get your life together is "nonsense" is fucking sad.
really interesting perspective!  oddly enough, i feel like some parts of the transmasculine community closely resemble the incel community.  in some cases, misogyny and all... but in a lot of cases, more in the sense that guys are tearing eachother/themselves apart and being super hopeless.  it's admittedly super easy to get sucked into and super sad to watch happen.
Contra, you need to do a goddamn ASMR video sometime. You can't tease me like this.
I love your videos, they make long commutes seem much less long! <3
Hold my beer I'm gonna write a biting satire of them
For a time I was a very lonely man, and very bitter. I was close to being an incel save for two things: my female friends, and this kind of online communities not having been a thing just yet. Now i'm happily married, but still struggle with self-loathing and feelings of worthlessness (much less severe). You have described very accurately many of the things i felt and experienced. Thanks for this video!
Got this video in recommended, subbed as soon as you started talking. You're gorgeous and you sound just like Laura Prepon, I could watch your videos forever 💜 Also as a connoiseur of incel culture, having myself stood and watched at the fall of their Reddit empire, this was probably the best video I've seen covering incels. You're incredibly thorough and entertaining throughout this video, definitely my new favorite creator.
Lol he's a baker now
HAHAHA THAT INTRO
This was absolutely beautifully done.  I love it and you did an amazing job!  By the way, your lipstick reminds me of the Ruby slippers from the Wizard of Oz.  Just saying!!
The editing periodically was hilarious 😂   “Imagine the walls of her tight, soft, warm *BEEEP* wrapped around every inch of your *BEEEP* “
as much as i hate using internet buzzwords i would say "incels" remind me a great deal of 3rd. wave feminists except they don't enjoy nearly as much support from the media or society as a whole. they're bad intentions are right out in the open and not hidden behind this cloak of respectability.
So how many millions of mass murderers has the incel community produced?  As I understand it, there was one mentally ill young man that participated on message boards for incels.  Is one person a multitude?  I can play this game too.. Almost every woman who has murdered her own children was a feminist. Why is the feminist community producing so many murderers of children?
Another amazing video you're doing good work trudging through the depths of the internet while still being gorgeous
this is pure, unadulterated art. never in my life have i ever seen such a beautiful video merged with youtube politics
First time I watch one of your videos, I thought up to like the 18th-minute mark that you were a regular, good-looking woman, now I think you are a regular good-looking woman (no hon at all).
Okay, gonna say it -- everyone's thinking it! She looks beautiful this video.  Also, good video topic. I tend to never interact with "internet subcultures" (to be nice about it), only hearing about them when they flare up on certain sites/regarding certain topics of interest to me.
Haha telling suicidal people to return to the sea. I can imagine all the sunbathing “Stacy’”s surprise at all the waterlogged incel bodies washing up on the shore hahahaha
C L E A N   Y O U R   R O O M   B U C K O
What a brilliant video this is
Kinda interesting
you lost a chance to call Roosh a master baker
Imagine being such a loser that you blame your failure with women on your wrists.
Rock and roll is dead... but do you have any idea how many otherwise unfuckable weirdy-beardy odd-skull's are out smashing constantly with nothing more than a second-hand laptop and an unlicensed copy of Fruity Loops?  Get off reddit/4chan and make some fucking noise.  You don't even need to know how to sing/dance/play an instrument.  String together some sounds... Stand emotionless onstage  behind the dim glow of a laptop screen and look stoic for 30 minutes ... and at some point a girl will come up and say "I liked your set."  And then you'll puke up all those black pills and have some confidence.
i'm new to your channel (you've earned a new follower btw, you're awesome) and wasn't even aware you were trans until you mentioned that?? please try to refrain from any facial surgeries, you look stunning, the pain won't be worth it! D:
Funny and clever. I'm subscribing!
My wife has some serious medical problems, so we've both been incels for nine years.
I get that that rainstorm bit was a joke but rainstorms do actually make me horny lol.
first time watching your content--this video is impeccable. Subscribed! Thank you <3
You’re so beautiful and elegant!!
Thanks now I'm going to beach to masturbate
This video made me a geosexual
omfg I love you!  You didn't just shit on incels; you found common ground.  Much more tempered than most people's reactions.  You're smart and attractive and one of my new favorite people.  This was a great video!
It's funny how the commentary community are more virgin then incels  (sorry if my english is bad hihi)
This why went gay lol
re: Tindr "How would you feel, if instead of that... you were just getting radio silence... like the incels get?" It's so much worse than that post 2016. Now instead of radio silence... there's a signal on every station... and if you follow that signal for more than a few seconds... you realize it's pre-recorded messages from a scambot/spambot. Online dating is useless in 2018... totally useless.
Another reason for seeking out negative comments online: it let's us cope with real fears in a controlled environment and thus being able to manage them. Obviously doesn't always work or people can take it too far but could be motivation for some.
contra is turning me into a communist
Great now the ocean turns me on
Shit, how widespread is the "hon" thing? Have I accidentally been using insulting language with my trans friends when I call them "hon/hun" as a term of affection, or is that just a 4chan thing? But shit, I get it, thinking that your friends' support is out of sympathy , or worse, pity, rather than completely honest. I always make sure to check myself to make sure my support is honest and sincere, because, yeah, people can tell when someone is being fake, and I never want to be fake. But I want my friends to feel beautiful, and that I truly think they are.
A channel.
32:59 thank god
https://youtu.be/5J93U-iokyw  The views of these few extreme minds do not represent the entire group. That is unfair and unjust to a group who have been socially isolated and are now being further isolated and turned into pariahs because no one understands the issue at hand.
I think youre right that the self loathing of incels, which is similar self loathing due to body dysmorphia of some women, is likely to be more depressing, orbitting a black hole and fatalistic just because men are expected to pursue relationships, while women are not. Assumming that I have understood you correctly. Its still more likely that a self loathing woman find a man at least occasionally, than an incel finds a woman. (Some and some, generalization extravaganzza, Im ignoring non-heterosexual orientations etc.) The terrible thing for incels is that in order to stop being one, which they often dont believe to be possible, is to suffer through a stream of rejections and painful learning, which looks catastrophic prior going through that, and really ends up being so after trying for a while. It still leaves long term scars, memories and wounded emotions that never go away. The older one gets, the more deep it cuts. Most people go through that learning period, while still being teenage morons about it. On top of that staying in the church of incel make the things ever-present, ready-to-be consumed darkness, which can make it oddly more digestable for the confirmation it provides. Btw, have you read that essay of a "female incel" on quilette - assuming that naming that website does not make your hair stand?
"He's never heard a song in his life." 😂 😂 😂 oh Jesus I don't know why that made me laugh so much.   Amazing video by the way,  subbed 💗💞🙏
7:40 Is that JonTron? Is he an incel now...?
This is the best breakdown of Incels I've ever seen.
I so want to fuck the sea right now.
I shouldn't have been brutally hot drinking coffee when i first the words "femoids" for the first time. a spit take could have been disastrous
4:05 aww man, I picked a bad time to eat my roast beef sandwich.
Amazing!
This is fantastic. There's a brilliance at the ending I admire. I'm glad I found this channel.
Lmao, love the random TERF interjection.
A lot of incels don’t seem to be aware that it’s true, millions of men who look comparable to them do get laid. If a guy is incapable of getting laid, there’s probably something wrong with their personality. Girls can sense it when guys hate them.  If you blatantly resent women, you’re going to give off dangerous vibes, that’s just how it is. So, if any incels are watching this, maybe start by being friendly towards girls, genuinely kind, and stop feeling so sorry for yourself. Things will turn around if you give up the whole resentment thing.
Oh god that imagine a woman thing made my slin crawl
Good LORD, this was gold. Hilarious, informative, quality content. Instant sub.
@ContraPoints  Whoa! Flash backs of The Game book from 2008 when I found my way into the pick up community before I fully accepted my bisexuality. The self Loathing in the community is quite blatant.  The obsession with categorisation and is similar to other isms. The bone structure analogy  reminded of racist literature. The idea of average frustrated chump and becoming a PUA was going fix all my problems, It never did.  I was still going from one world to the other, from trans dating sites where I accept I'm attracted to trans woman to pua sites where no one talk about bisexual at it all about, "sarging" , "merging sets" and demonstrating higher value etc. It dawned on me  very slowly one day that all of it wasn't given my self-esteem any benefits and really was an insult to mine myself and my sexuality.  It's been over 10 years since since I stopped doing the pua crap and a few relationships later I do feel better for it.  I do get a few from trans community asking to "smash my new pussy" and now I would prefer a walk in the park first or even a "how's your days doing" before I smash anything.
Incels are the socialists of sexuality. "Gibs me dats gibs me dats gibs me dats".
Thank goodness she's still attracted to women!!!  Seriously good video
Are Incels still a thing?  I don't know because I haven't checked the value of Axe Body Spray on the stock market.
11/10 video
I think a piece of the puzzle of *why* people would ever seek out these abusive comments can be found in cognitive psychology. As a cognitively minded psychologist, I'm pretty much honor-bound to say that, but hear me out.  Basically, we have certain ways of seeing ourselves and the world and those views can be deeply entrenched. And worse, we don't *like it* when we have to change them. It's scary. Your current world-view might be self-destructive and dysfunctional, but changing them is hard and uncomfortable. So we try to find ways to justify not changing. To justify our existing beliefs.   And that might be why people seek out those kinds of forums and comments. Not out of a masochistic desire to be humiliated, but to justify staying the same rather than doing the unpleasant work to become better.  So great to hear that you're on the right path, though!
It might be fun to laugh at other people's bigotry and hopelessness but after a while it stops being funny and you risk bring sucked into it. I used to visit a forum called "AS partners" who are filled with older married woman who are "tormented" by the fact that their husbands aren't "normal," (I'm an autistic man myself.) A good friend told me to stop going the forum after I showed it to him because he knew the ableism was making me depressed and that I was starting to believe it myself.
Maybe I'm just too stoned but you are too hilarious
I fuckin died at Chadpreet, like they really couldn't just pick a real name
great explanation, i am horrified and educated. women do know how radio silence on tinder feels though, lol--it's women seeking women.
What the hell I wasn't expecting to laugh as hard as I did
This video, or: "I guess what I'm trying to say is GTFO the addictive, mind-warping toxic sludge that is the internet and put more real world things in your life. Even fucking Roosh is doing it."  Excellent stuff as usual.
Love the Victorian parts😂 and you look a goddamn beautiful lady✨ tricked me😂👍
That was a lot of fun. I would not have given up that time doing anything else.
Your hair is gorgeous! And you're a natural entertainer. So much work went into this video. Very impressive!
1) great vid 2) ur stunning 3) bye
I'm rape and then masshoot your boi pussy
love the Bisexual Lighting™️
Jesus christ that opening was uncomfortable
First time watcher keep up the great content.
I just found you and I love you already omg. You go, Natalie!
I think people look for negative comments about themselves to validate their thoughts. If they think they're ugly, and then read a comment that they are indeed ugly, then they can use that as proof that their thoughts are correct. They're being insulted, but they get the satisfaction of being right. It's a twisted form of self-serving masochism. If they think the only reason women don't like them is their looks, and they post a picture and get told that it's true, then they'll feel validated in an uncontrollable failure of theirs. They're both making themselves feel better and worse. But the effects are purely negative.
Contrapoints gives me an anti boner
I think a large part of the draw when it comes to the red pill philosophy is that society at large is so dogmatically unwilling to so much as hear it even in the circumstances where they are objectively right. (eg: the sexual marketplace thing) And will instead resort to the moral argument & all the buzzwords. The problem is that this is the exact same strategy that traditionalist religions employed. And these for the most part are 90s/00s kids that grew up in the death throes of religion's time at the top of the cultural hegemony of the western world. The comforting lie that there's a loving god who cares about you personally had to be brushed aside to move forward, and the truth was anything but comforting for a lot of people. And now they're faced with the dilemma in that thus far, their attempts to find love have failed spectacularly despite what may well be genuine attempts to apply the advice they've heard all throughout childhood. Questioning everyone who's ever told them "you're a nice guy, anyone would be lucky to have you... not me... but someone".  I think this makes most of the recent mainstream media's attempts to shit on them really ineffective and dangerous. It's compounded the disenfranchisement & martyrdom appeal. But it's doubled down on the reductionist and wrong interpretations and made them look more and more like the religious right trying to paint things they don't like as "devil worship". I feel like this can only embolden incels into thinking they're actually on the right track, and that their opposition is going into full damage control mode to try and cover up their "truth".  *Seriously, well done on this video.* It's super refreshing to see someone actually get this shit remotely close to right. Even among the usual suspects of the "skeptic community" (the ones you'd expect to at least entertain the devil's advocate position), it's usually just a race to disassociate & throw them under the bus. I mean... they deserve scorn & ridicule, but not slander. And you managed to nail that balance here.
Wow can I just say how blown away I am at this video? It’s the first of your videos I’ve ever seen, but I’m subscribed and really eager to see what else you have in store!
What a well-made, and thoughtful take on a perplexing subject.
2:40 the point of the video is to understand incels. why?
You are such a beautiful fucking person and mind
very brilliant work.  well done.  subscribed. cant wait to see what else you come up with next !
Hey Roosh, I am super masculine as you can see, but I play jacks! Jacks is a game of chance, and men have traditionally excelled at games of chance! All my competitors are little girls, but I always win!
No way roosh was a scientist,  dude seems too stupid, obvious by his view on women.  He was a lab tech at best.
I seriously love you. And it's mostly non romantic, you are just awesome and cool.
Holy fuck you've come far in a year... you are very beautiful!
Wait, I'm new to this channel, soooo, is this a transgender woman, or a woman with a deep voice?  Also, does she believe that calling people by their preferred pronouns should be a legal issue for which people can be put in jail?
I like your voice. You're welcome not to of course & I'm not a classically trained concert pianist with an elevated appreciation for sound or anything. Still though, as a human person I find it conversationally pleasant.
This is my favourite channel. Holy fucking shit. You are the realist bitch out there and i love you.  - Sympathy where deserved. - Mockery where deserved.  - Hard truths. - Kind truths. - A voice in the political biosphere finally willing to talk about the inherent eroticism of the sea.  - Perfection.
I honestly think you look like a woman already, especially now you're on HRT. I think you're pretty. But if you think a few millimetres of bone really makes a difference, you go get rid of it.
Oh my god. This was so enjoyable!
This is hands down the best thing I’ve watched all year, thank you for digging so deep into the subject, it’s refreshing to see such a well rounded video on the topic.
Incels don't exist. You've lost a war. Idiots...
You know these guys spend an awful lot of time thinking about the attractiveness of other men.....
That sound of nails ticking the skull wurms it's way into my head!!
This is sucha powerful, true video. Great job, I'm hooked
GREAT! Now I'm sexually attracted to the ocean. Thanks a lot. -_-
The whole incel thing is such a myth. Girls are not as shallow as incels seem to assume. I’ve dated guys shorter than me, I like guys who aren’t “conventionally” attractive and honestly, if a guy has a good personality and a good sense of humor, that’s all I care about.
But real talk contrapoint does look great.
Ya know how they say "just bleeping obscenities just makes it funnier"? Well, that remains to be true. 0:19 I'm dying!
Good luck on your transition. Now, this is not me being an asshole, I am sincerely wishing you the best.
Love it! Just found and subscribed!
This is a tranny right?
Fantastic video 👍 thank you
Wow great job Natalie. The internet is lucky to have you.
This was good. I wish more people could figure out how to talk about incels without the weird pity party we must tend to their every need so they don't murder us thing happening. You're fab.
No. the redpill theory is that you see through the illusions being put up and see the world for what it really is. I don't really like the term, but this is what the manosphere uses (along with a bunch of truther movements, hence why I hate the term). Also, about hypergamy, it is real. While most manosphere movements will only talk about female hypergamy (women marry up), the conveniently leave out male hypergamy (men seek fertile women, i.e youth and beauty). The manosphere attacks female hypergamy while leaving out male hypergamy and feminism attacks male hypergamy while leaving out female hypergamy. I prefer tackling both, not attacking them, but rather understanding them.
6:30 woa. Cool observation. Subscribed.
Are you a trany
I will forever love you.
Chadpreet lmao
I don't know how serious you were on the death of rock being related to the growth of incels. But i actually think there is a link. Before the internet proto incels would have channeled their rage and despair into angry or angsty music, emo poetry, existentialist novels and plays. All of which would ironically have brought them the attention they crave and corrected their emotional state.  Now instead they sit around complaining to each other getting attention from each other yes, but the wrong kind, intended to keep them isolated, because now they fear leaving the group.
Why are you apologizing? If the incel community is anything like the "chans" community, more often than not, it,s people who will identify this way ("Ricecel here..." and "Currycel here..." is not so much different than "Newfag here..."). If they identify this way, then why apologize for it? It,s obvious they're fine with the labels, otherwise they would not use it...
You're amazing! Loved everything that was covered, and (as usual) the way you covered it. I really needed to hear that bit about digital self-harm. So timely, and something I've also been doing for years. I really appreciate all of the hard work you must put into these works of art. We love a talented, sexy, hardworking Queen. Thank you, Natalie! 💜  Warmly, +Asher+
VOLCEL IF YOU WOULDN'T, BITCHES
How a woman herself feels sounds so good... I want to be like that too. It's that moment I realize I'm not an incel. but a trans woman. Funny how confusing it could be?  This comment is made before watching the video so probably Natalie made this point too?
35:01 Me whenever Ollie and Natalie do a collab
the only issue with saying not all incels are violent is misleading, just because they don't commit violent acts against women like  Elliot Rodger did but they still are violent to women online, post images of young girls saying they are better than older women due to their fertility and I mean young like 10-20 in a state prison young, they talk about their violent fantasies, and they talk about how eventually they should overthrow the government and have mandatory sex slaves based on a rating system of how many sexual partners women had. They harass and doxx women send threats, stalk among other cringe worthy acts, the incels are not to be taken lightly
Lol, incels? Just go out there and be yourself bro.
I never heard of a catastrophizing person until the video but after hearing that description I realized I definitely am one
You are amazing
The only real cause of inceldom is too much pride and arrogance to visit a sex worker and perform a voluntary transaction between two consenting adults with no negative effects on bystanders.
You're calling Peterson a "sexist old man" (because of course you haven't read his work) but you think so little of women you think all you need to do to become one is chop your cock off.  A woman is more than a cockless man.
BioBitch  here, I definitely went through an incel-like stage where I hated men and blamed them for all of my problems, I called it feminism. I was convinced that all men only wanted a “Stacey” and that any woman who looked that attractive couldn’t possibly have anything in the way of a personality. I’m happy to say I’ve grown out of that, but the thoughts creep up sometimes.   So as abhorrent as I find this kind of behaviour, I can’t say I’ve never been a proponent of it. It’s so fascinating how loneliness can twist you in the most monstrous ways.
I didn't think you were trans until you said something. You look beatutiful
Wow how did this get so many views already… it has more views than your last two videos that were released a while ago
Can you make a video about those of us who transition to female but still like to keep our original genitals intact. We still are female and we deserve to be treated as such...
This morning I just wanted to watch some fun video game playthroughs but ended up here and now my morning is totally over and I still can't figure out how to have a fucking relationship with Penny in Stardew Valley.
That fucking transition to talking about Jordan Peterson was fluid af
Mate, using your personal experience to provide advice for and draw parallels to a community that few would see a connection to yourself in. Inspiring. Oof, you got me in the heart again. And I think you're right that Jordan Peterson could be a decent source of self help for people like this but honestly, the compassion and understanding you showed here made me think that you'd be even better at it. Not that they'd have you. Or you want the job
Um doesn't Pablo Neruda disprove all of this?
Hmm you are generally funny and have great points. Then i understood that you were a man. So i see why :)
6:36 Unanticipated ASMR roleplay 22:30 Anticipated ASMR roleplay
Ah so Roosh has taken the bread pill.
That kid in the background was me, but it was very much self imposed. I had friends and they kept inviting me to parties but I would either make excuses and not go or convince myself they felr bad for me and I would sit in the back of parties and be too afraid to mingle, and when I did id fuck it up due to anxiety. Eventually they stopped inviting me but at least I never blamed it on them
'..Why their community produces so many mass murderers' Arent there like two people, Elliot Rodger & that armenian canadian guy?
You date black guys?
This video was so informative, funny, and brilliantly crafted I wish I could have given it multiple likes.  I’m now a subscriber! Keep up the amazing work!!!!
"Unobtainium" I love these casual burns
I was waiting for you to talk about Incels for so long. You made my dream come true. ♥
you can believe in hypergamy without believing it's negative.  It's not inherently bad that a woman want's the best condition for her and her kids, i'd say it idealistic.  However an issue may arise when women start to out earn the average mean. This ofc. doesn't mean that  society can't adapt, however the opposite isn't guaranteed either.  Also the Red pill isn't a predefined and fully established ideology such as Marxism, the community is widly different and includes both extremists and centrists.  Although alot of MGTOW ( and basically all incels) act sexist (imo), alot of men rights activists how alot of positive and thoughtful not least important things to say.    "All generalizations are dangerous, even this one." -Alexandre Dumas      ( <- hope this one sticks)
Does holding that wine glass during long takes get tiring?
Internet Anthropology is now my new fave 💕✌🏼 great job!!
Good video, instant subscribe.  I wanna talk about an incel-adjacent thing that's very relevant to the video. Hopefully some good will come out of it?  Incels are mostly unreachable, but there's a group that's essentially incels-in-training: the self-proclaimed "Nice Guys". They exhibit very similar traits - the misogyny, the self-hatred, the way they objectify women, the terminology ("Chad" being a popular term, and they're not at the "femoids" stage yet, but they're curiously fond of the term "females"). Their behaviour is different, though, they're at the stage of trying really hard, not yet locked into a cynical world view. Instead, they tend to whine about how women don't appreciate them.  Nice Guys and incels basically share the same perspective, insecurities while differeing in tactics. The go-to move of a Nice Guy is to expect sex as a prize for being remotely friendly and polite, and any rejection feeds the confirmation bias about how "being nice makes you lose" (see the proto-incel worldview there?). On the flipside, Nice Guys aren't as fanatic as incels, don't really have a community, and honestly some of what they claim and do is an extreme version of the mentality of the less-adjusted teenage boys (because teenage boys are dumb. Duh.).  Nice Guys just don't grow out of that phase for some reason. And that "they don't grow out of it" part is why a Nice Guy is a prime targets for recruitment for incels. I say that as a former Nice Guy, and a pretty bad one. In hindsight, I only didn't go in that direction due to a few radical and emotionally painful course-corrections and self-reevaluations.  The video is not directly about Nice Guys, but I made the connection the instant there was talk about catastrophising. That's a key similarity - Nice Guys don't do that yet, but they are developing the attitude that devolves into catastrophising incel-style eventually. Still not there, but approaching the point of no return.  My point (if there is any)? If you see a guy complain that he's "too nice" to get women or that they're all into "Chads" or similar, it might be a good idea to link him to this video. Nice Guys are salvageable, but they do require education AND a kick in the butt. Trust me on that.
Kmn
6:52 a fuckable skull is not something I wanted to think of today D:
Oh no... over with the lovely people of LoadingReadyRun "Get into the sea!" is a bit of a meme/catchphrase/recurring joke, but from now on it'll always have an erotic undercurrent to it in my ears XD  Amazing video, once again!
This video is so fucking good. Props to you for fully being able to understand and identify the roots and causes of why incels exist.
Can we just appreciate that hon is she pronounce in swedish.
If you're in a community like this, you can almost always ask moderators to ban you. At least it worked for me on the 2meirl4meirl discord.
I used to sympathise with incels but I realised they find it impossible to empathise with women. Also the fact that they want to redistribute the means of reproduction
I've been trying to get with you since the beginning ok contra... keep the penis your beautiful...
Please do a video on r/2meirl4meirl  or /r9k/
So you used to go on 4chan? Somehow I knew there was something wrong with you, just couldn't put my finger on it. Also, going out into the rain for... unrelated purposes.
Eminently bangable twink, gheh. True though.
I kind of feel like an incel, even though I'm getting laid.  I can so empathize with those people.  I'd be totally like them.  In fact I'm sort of like them even though I get to have sex, probably because I don't feel like I'm in control over whether I have sex or not and it's all her call and if she decided to dump me tomorrow, which I don't think she will, but if she did, I'd be incel again, just like that.  And then I'd have to go partying again and socializing and leaving my home and all the stuff I hate...  Of course my facial bone structure is fine, so there's that...
If the first 1 minute of the video told me anything, it's that incels should really get into writing smut instead of bitching about women on Reddit.
are you a tranny ?
What the fuck did I just watch
I’m so glad I stumbled across this channel pure genius!
♥♥♥
Fucking hell, i wish i wouldve found your channel sooner.
This is GOLD
Women won't date me because of my criminal record.  I'm a cellcel
you argue so well, the pictures, the edit, the music. You're so fucking great and i'm not even really interested in LGBT subculture.
Wow I wanna go fuck an ocean now
But they are dangerous with their ideas. Rape is ok to them. Age of consent should be 13 or lower. Women should be beaten if they reject a man. Women should have our rights taken away. Sorry but they are all just ticking time bombs.
I love how you just finished the corndog.
If it's any consolation, I couldn't decide if you Were trans or not when I first saw you. Your transition shouldn't be that hard... but, what do I know..
The irony is that if incels actually read Roosh V's books and listened to his podcasts on his YouTube channel, they would be motivated to take action and get out there and interact with women.
I'm a mindcel . . . I think it's just something that society has to learn to deal with. Legalizing prostitution would go a long way I think. Ultimately the thing that needs to change though is society's view on sex. It's so negatively looked at. Being sexual is inappropriate or at least seen as such. Asking directly for sex is seen as tactless and borderline harassment. Once our society stops putting a stigma on sexuality, we'll see less incels I think.
Anybody else for a swim?
Also Incels Need To be Reformed And Integrated.And Yes ,Internet is Shit.
Yeah I like this. Your style of internet video thinging, that is.  One critique tho, Stratocasters??? Really???
Alpha Males Need to be Reform.Its Good to be Alpha as long as It is Collectivist or Else....You know the usual.
Thank you for the inclusion of The Who.
You're wonderful, this is excellent!
What's funny is celibacy means not getting married. Chastity means not getting laid. It should be called Inchasts
First Chang take your Job,  Then he takes yo girl..
Wait what, suicide recommendation at the end?
This is one of the most elegant explanations of incels I have seen to date.
Mmmmm can't wait to get me some of that sexy rainstorm Petrichor.
feminist culture, that's why they're like this. you're welcome
Here before 180K
Please do an asmr phrenology video Natalie!
at one point in my life i was something pretty close to an incel, the only difference being that i never blamed women or feminism for my inability to find someone, i just blamed myself and thought i was irreparably broken on some fundamental level that made me completely unlovable. so to that extent, i can absolutely sympathize with the incels, because i lived through that "catastrophizing" anxious self-hatred.
I used to be a very active member in feminist groups, and those groups were mostly radical in their views. Though I still hold my views as somewhat feminist, I can't deny that the time I've spent there didn't went well for my mental health and views on the world. Everywhere I looked I've seen rape, opression, wage gaps and acid attacks. I barely had any male friends whom I wouldn't consider pigs or wanting to rape me, just because that's what I've been used to look for in people, society and the world at large. Once I distanced myself from those group for my own mental sake - the amount of negativity was exhausting - I felt better. I started to develop my own world views. My country is still sexist and I can still see that, but I don't see a proof of it every day. Which is a lot easier for the soul.
Great production value but you are WRONG!!! Allow me to pull FACTS out of my fedora... there, here is a FACT. Sure, you might not know what it is like to be a man, especially a man who is always so nice to all females but in the end, remains non-laid for all the nice shit I do! But yes! I had an x-ray done and my bones were fucking tiny... they were the size of pencils! FEMALES LIKE BONES! It's an evolutionary fact!!! THAT'S WHY IT IS CALLLLLLLLED BONERS! I swear, no matter how many replica samurai swords I buy, or how much dating practice I obtain via Japanese Dating Sims... FEMALES refused to get in my van. But I digress, m'lady. It seems you have had a poor experience with incels so please, allow me to change your opinion. I'm a nice guy, I swear. Please date me, please!! Pretty please! I've tried the nofap movement but... well, lets just say that... erm...walking around supermarkets with an erection is embarrassing. Teach me the ways of my enemy; the chads.
You won a subscriber with this video. Well played.
Is that Hbomberguy reading the Incel comments?
The true blackpill is realizing Contrapoints will never be your gf. :(
Does anyone else think that "Monster ContraPoints", at 28:44 looks amazing?
33:49 nut
Pro tip: You don’t need FFS, FFS. Drive on and save the money, ignore your voice (it’s fine) and haters, and just get on with it. You remind me of my niece.
Oh great. Now every time it starts raining I get horny.
Fucking stunning. Loved every second. Good job.
How YouTube somehow found me to be the target of this video I will never know, but this was truly amazing.
That opening just made me extremely uncomfortable
fantastic video codifying a lot of my feelings that about incels  I subbed because of this video
Weren't you the biggest incel until you gave up and changed genders?
excuse me imma just head over to the sea
If you ever feel insecure again about whether you look like a "hon", just know that I didn't know you were once a man until you mentioned that you were. Like I seriously thought you were just woman with a slightly deeper voice and only until you mentioned by trans did I even begin to notice anything about your facial structure or you being masculine lol  Also this was a wonderful video, I came here thinking I'm going to get infuriated again by the incel's and their echochamber of hate but you've really covered this topic very well. Especially in regards to masochistic epistemology and the incel's refusing help and being unreachable and thus theres no real way to help them until they make themselves open to help. Make me feel slightly less mad about their attitude in general, especially with the points you gave about the dating game and explaining the mentality of it all. Thank you <3
or  "you are a lesbian nonbinary amab and most women only want cis women" "you are 500 pounds" "you live in a racist area and are the only non white within a good deal of space" "you are HIV positive and people are afraid of you" "you are divergent with BPD" "you are slightly developmentally disabled and women infantilse you"  or you can't get laid for any bigoted reason, but because you are a minority your range and angst is well justified and everone else is the bad guy   woah hey. some twitter users tried saying Incel was coined by an Autistic person for herself. another said it had something to do with the non white queer community (i need to check my screen captures)   sexual bigotry is a thing.  it takes stregnth and a good personaity not to be a shitty person about it. or if they are going to bitch, do it with the right kind of name calling,.  https://everydayfeminism.com/2014/01/getting-laid-isnt-answer-to-ableism/ contrast to https://lareviewofbooks.org/article/sexual-ableism/#! rape  http://www.debate.org/forums/Society/topic/85086/ incel alert https://www.independent.co.uk/voices/comment/women-need-to-stop-discriminating-against-short-men-its-even-worse-than-fat-shaming-10494782.html oh dear so cranky   how long will it take for people to realise even some sjw marginized minoirty groups are teetering on incel https://www.vice.com/en_us/article/wjq99z/why-cant-my-famous-gender-nonconforming-friends-get-laid https://nypost.com/2017/07/02/attraction-will-always-defy-social-justice/   arg. i can't easily find what i need. https://www.out.com/lifestyle/2017/3/29/sexual-and-racial-politics-age-grindr  https://www.psychologytoday.com/us/blog/fulfillment-any-age/201306/why-women-want-tall-men   I don't know. i thought more than incels believed in that female mating stragity. humans have a lowsy ablity of knowing   which child they sired, others might be able to smell it. so a human mates with one male with good genes but lowsy fathering skills, and makes a family with the other.  you make it sound like it's a myth human females have smaller brow ridges. that is why it looks like our eyes are bigger. it gives us younger features  and promisuoity got humans to evolve into what we are. the incels are looking at humans in a skewed animalistic way, a reverse anthrophomorphisation
I tried online dating once, it made me want to curl up in a shallow grave so I can only imagine how a doom and gloom Incel might cope. Eventually I met someone through a running club; that you mentioned hobbies rings SO true.
This is definitely your best video IMO. Thoughtful, funny, real. As an insecure trans man (that's a bit on the feminine side and okay with it), there was a lot I could relate to and see. The online self-harm thing, I think a lot of trans people needed to hear.
404 Chin Not Found
Subscribbled
Well you have once been a hon but you look like a woman now.  really if you did not say you were trans I would assume you were a woman.
15:42 Jesus fucking christ. if you look like that why the fuck you even wonder that you can't get laid ? Just change this hairstyle that screams virgin from mile away, shave off that moustache, don't go out with a call of duty tshirt possibly, take shower regularly despite laughing at this idea and maybe gain some weight to then work out a bit to make yourself somewhat weel built and don't make face expressions like that. It's just.. weird and creepy. Character and personality aside if you just work a bit on your look and by work I mean just don't look like you're on purpose want to appear as virgin maybe you'll find this easier duh PS. People from comments. Don't try to teach me that it's easy for me to say that if I'm not a virgin because I am in fact a 21 yo male vigin. I just don't make myself look like I don't want to ever get laid on purpose like this guy on a photo.
Wow this is a really good video. I’m a new subscriber and the last few vids were ok, but this one was really honest and elegantly stated. I hope this gets a million views. Well done! Looking forward to your future vids.
"There are skulls on them!" https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hn1VxaMEjRU&t=2s
The history of western philosophy is filled with masochistic epistemology, starting all the way from "better to be unhappy wise Socrates than a happy dirty pig" and stoic stuff. I think it was first Nietzsche to question the will of truth as a basis of western morality (and propose a will of power instead). For Nietzsche every epistemology is also a moral system. He argued that the will of truth has been responsible for the ascetic ideals (and transcendental metaphysics) that have long governed the morality in the west.  Most interestingly he claims that this sort of morality borns everytime humans go through stress under ruhtless rulers or physiologically challenging conditions. It is a reactive plan for life to survive in circumstances hostile for life, by turning against life itself. Nietzsche made often natural analogues (like hibernation that some species do in order to survive) to understand this paradoxical behaviour of human morality. Nietzsche, throughout his life as a sick incelish man, knew what he was talking about. There are probably many others "philcels" as well.
Yet another masterpiece, bravo!
more like cringecels. they're 'celibate' because they're cringey as fuck.
i'm not sure i should say this, but the behavior of seeking out anxiety induced criticism and members of these group forming names to call each other that reflect their biggest fears is seen within dark black women.  For the longest time dark skinned women have been the literal bottom of the dating pool, having to hear from family, friends and black men that if we were a little lighter, we'd be attractive. So groups formed, especially on reddit, where dark skinned women would put of pictures of themselves and black women who were just a tiny shade lighter would bash them and encourage bleaching. There were so many videos that went deep on why as a dark skinned women you could never be seen as attractive and the best thing was to put a paper bag on your face. I used to eat this shit up until i realized i was just feeding my anxiety. Now I could not give a shit who thinks i'm attractive, because the ones who do have exquisite taste.
The whole bigotry skull theory thing is kinda ridic.  You're comparing bigotry being assigned to something completely unrelated like a skull... to their postulation based on actual physical attraction to a physical characteristic (bone structure).  I mean, if they were saying all people with a certain skull feature had a specific personality characteristic then you might have a point.  But, that's not what's happening.  They are saying that the reason some men don't get laid is literally because of the shape of their skull.
Love it! Subscribed!
Amazing vid!
Please be my big sister
i've always thought it so funny that a group of men who claim they want to get laid then BUILD AN ENTIRE IDENTITY ON NOT GETTING LAID lolll. isn't that counterproductive
First-time viewer. Subbed. You're witty and funny with a healthy amount of sass. Keep it up :D Quality content right here.
Yo, what the fucks a tinder? Some kind of lunchbox?
"cooking is science and men like science" yet men think they're above making their own sandwiches
Honestly jeezus ur very pretty and I'm a bi so not lying and I love you
18:45 amazing
I am become fish
you are incredibly funny and intelligent
you are so beautiful
Contra be lurking on 4chan? Cool
Saw this on reddit and initially thought it would be something super cringey and hard to get through.  Well now i'm subbed.
Gigi gorgeous 4th comming out video, sorry contra, love you, but I couldn't resist
Saw this video while watching Lindsay Ellis. Your fucking amazing. New sub.
gr8 vid bb keep em comin
Outstanding content.
Yeah Stalin didn't name it the Politburo. We did.
You could cut my dick off and I still wouldn't be as depressed as these incels who think sex is so important.
yer a fucking genious
I don't understand the whole idea that life is pointless without sex. There is so much more to give life meaning. I get that the incels won't be interested in knowing that. Actually, learning about this makes me want to deal with my own self loathing, before I lose track of my optimism.
so good
WHERE DO YOU KEEP GETTING THESE CORNDOGS?!
Love the video but the font made me binge Batman the Animated Series. Not really a complaint I guess.
Dat "Volcel if you wouldn't" though
>I-I have to leave 4chan, it's turning me into a monster!  Oh, sweetie.... Nobody leaves. You're one of us forever now. Forever.
I was hearing this voice over narrator and I'm thinking "damn, I know this Brit from somewhere, and I precum over his voice, it's definitely philosophytube" and I was right
Damn...
First time viewer & subscribed because of this! Great work!
It's a very sad community. This rock and roll manosphere you mention at the very end existed for me in the metal music. It was a way to look and act that was very forgiving. Lots of facial features and body structures become acceptable with long hair, beards and a Slayer shirt. Maybe that was my salvation.   One other thing I'll mention is the puberty angle. At 12-20 you're as horny as you will ever be and it will seem like everyone around you is having sex, but they're not. The episode of Glow when Marc Marrons daughter is revealed to be having more sex than all the other women on the show,  that's more like reality.   Secondly, as I grew older more body types became attractive to me. I don't think that's just me. Personality also became more important. Honestly, masturbation can be better than some sex you will have in your life. And I'm a man, that's not just a women thing.  Lastly, I hope incels grow over it. Most men over 35 have problems maintaining an erection. Sex becomes far less important. Achieving something, independence, that's the true holy grail of human happiness.
I want a platonic relationship with you.
"Catastrophizing" thanks for letting me know about that term.
Wow! This was so well done. You are beamingly intelligent. Subscribing now.
I realy liked that Video. The Music was nice, you made good points and i do like your make up.    Just one thing: there is nothing to forgive ;) you go girl <3
You remind me somewhat of Jim Sterling. Make of that what you will :P
I can't say that I wasn't an incel. trapped in a world that nobody is destined for me and that I can only lie down and rot and no such happiness is made for me for the taking and that's just it. Other than that, mass murders and in depth explanation of the rest now scares me.
aRE THOSE ANAL BEAD EARRINGS?!
contrapoints i would let you eat Jell-O out of the darkest places on my body
I'm an incel myself and I love this video!
that "masochistic epistemology" idea really hit home.
lol low quality tranny
Beautifully put together video once again. So impressed, and such a great topic that needed to be covered academically. Please do a video on proana communities, it's too controversial for anyone else to do it but it would be so interesting for the psychology to be analysed. Love u
Oh shit, this was hillarious. Time to sub
I can't tell what this... thing is. Are you a trans or an actual woman? In either case, no. Just no.
6:50 Please tell me more about those fuckable skulls
They talk a whole lot of shit but you’re still a prettier girl than I will ever be and I was born with a uterus,
I'm so glad I found this channel
I am a "incel" mainly because I am an introvert and am socially inept. I have been in a couple of relationships in the past and those have left a really bad taste in my mouth which has led me to develop trust issues.  I don't hate women in general. That would be stupid. I really enjoy being around what little female friends (ot friends in general) I have and of course I don't hate my mom, aunts or my cousin sisters. To blame 3.5 billion people in the world for your own "misery" is stupid, ignorant and extremely childish.  Also, I do make some misogynistic jokes with my guy friends. They are just that jokes based on our general observation of women. Of course its not funny when act upon those jokes and actually discriminate.
Natalie Wynn looks better than most women I know. I think I need to go away for a bit and reevaluate my life.
To be fair to Von Braun, he was quite literally a Nazi. Were we really expecting anything else?
i cannot believe this is the first time im seeing your channel. dude. i know how my next 3 days are going to be spent
Who talks about Paris Hilton in 2018?
Your videos are so well put together I’m now going to binge watch you for hours. Also your features remind me of Winona Ryder and I’m living for it
First time viewer, I tried subscribing to you twice and it undid my subscription to you, please help what do I do?
People should learn that celibacy doesn't mean "not having sex" but "not being married". Not having sex is "chastity".
It always makes me giggle a little when incels start spouting their "women have it easy/they were handed everything on a platter/they can get any man they want" because like......that's not true for every woman. I sympathize with them a lot, just like you, because I've spent most of my adolescence being a mentally ill socially inept person. I've never dated, I only just had my first kiss at 19 and that was about 2 yrs ago.  Incels make it seem like all women can get any man they want, like women aren't complex individuals with their own feelings, preferences, etc. Finding out what incels think about fat women, wlw, women of color, and etc is just horrible. Women really aren't anything but objects to them, it seems. I guess my point is that these guys have such a horrible worldview and *need* therapy. They put sex on a pedestal and as such think their life is over because they're virgins. They're so self-loathing, that any change isn't necessary or possible. Which isn't true at all.
Damn Contra, I am also a trans-woman and I feel like you and I have had very similar experiences in many ways, (4chan, hon, etc).  Started hormones 5 months ago to avoid killing myself due to depression and just stopped caring decided that if I needed to I could retaliate against anyone using what I learned from the razor and blades communities (as I started calling them) I was apart of. My face is more feminine now and even though I am unable to dress how I want to due to my current circumstances, I have a hard time even hiding the feminine nature of my face now.  Anyway, my point is that I wanted you do know you aren't alone if you see this message, I just wanted you to know that, because I thought I was, for a long time.
Fucking great video.
CONTRA tell me the secret of your「STAND」!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
turning neglect into self hatred and hatred for others hits reaaaaal close to home these assholes are ultimately human, and whether they believe it or not they're just as swayed by the content they take in as anybody else
I learned I yearn for a romantic and fulfilling relationship with the sea.
I remember when incel communities actually had women and stuff.  I don't count as a celibate anymore, but I almost made it to wizard.  I really regret giving up my powers.  Paradoxically, many incels have unusual and high standards.
Your comedic timing is on point. Consider me a new fan 💛
First time viewer and I just gotta say I really love the vibe that I get from the room you're sitting and talking in. Even though the topic is gross, the room makes me feel comfortable. And girl, you're GORGEOUS!!
So, I've never seen any of your vids before, I just ended up here because a person I follow on Twitter tweeted your vid and I was curious because "oh, incels! I've heard of them!" Anyway, I feel like I'm about to vanish down a rabbit-hole of watching more videos by you, so before I disappear into the sinkhole I wanted to say thanks for the video. It was well-researched, genuine without being too serious, and legit made me look at incel-dom in a different way. So, thanks for sharing your perspective, I'm gonna go vanish into the rabbit-hole that is your channel!
This was my first video of yours. Just wanna say that it's brilliant and you're gorgeous  <3
I love how a woman who does not have a penis is telling men about the characteristics of vaginas and how they feel. Reely? Vaginas do stretch and feel more loose because whats left of the hymen at the entrance creates the tight feeling. Larger penises stretch this ring like ridge of skin. I have had vaginas that were looser and been the one doing the stretching but believe me they do stretch and you can tell.
I'm pretty sure we're the same age, but I need you to adopt me. lol
This channel deserves way more subs than it already has.
TTTT, man it’s been awhile. Hons, voice and passing threads, agp’s... smh Those were dark times.
I can't help but ask, What's the effing solution? I talk to girls. Offline, online, apps. I try to strike up conversion at my work, their work, at the grocery store, at the game store, whenever I see a girl that I think looks interesting. Not pretty, or hot, persay, just interesting. They have cool looking hair, an anime thing I recognize, or are in fact pretty and/or hot. But they all go the same, they either ignore me and walk away, or claim to have a boyfriend when I start to ask details, like their name, general area where they live, and if they want to hang out more in future; and I mean, they're either telling the true, to which it would be wrong to try and convents her of adultery, or she's lying and i would be an asshole for harassing further. Online girls just don't do anything really. I ask a question, they answer. A make a joke, they lol. I make a general statement of something, they don't reply at all. And dating apps don't help. So what's the solution? And not what I can do, or you can do, because we're just two meat bags on the internet. But what's the solution for the world to fix this problem of men trying and failing while remaining respectful. Because from my view that's the problem of "The Nice Guy"; they don't disrespect women to their faces until their become assholes. That seems to be the trait the "chads" and 'pick up artist' all share, they're assholes. They harass until they win, and I am not going to do that. Also, for what it's worth, I thought you were a very creative(or mentally unstable) cis woman when I started watching your videos. Of course I didn't watch your early stuff.
Bravo
I am knee deep in my /TTTT/ phase. Help me.
In some of my darker moments I've gone down the exact progression of thoughts as the Black Pill, however I only ever get to step 5, being unhappy and thinking you're worthless and that those things will never change is one thing, blaming those thoughts and feelings on anybody else is just childish.
One thing I really like about your videos is they make me think about my weaknesses and cognitive dissonances in an open way. Not that I identify with any of the groups discussed, but I have definitely found myself going down very similar thought and emotional processes. Thank you for your well thought out vids!!
"At least these pricks care enough about my pussy to be an asshole about my dick." How do I nominate this for the youtube Emmy's?
This is my first time watching and I think I'm already in love with you. I too feel an almost sexual thrill during thunderstorms.
What was the first minute and a half of this video. WHAT WAS THE LAST MINUTE AND A HALF OF THIS VIDEO?!?!?!
based incels
"The inherent eroticism of the sea."  im losing my mind laughing
Don't recommend me tranny shit, youtube.
Really though provoking video. Not only did it make sympathize with incels (thought impossible) it made we wonder about frenology and racism, and the need for irrational ideology to have a non alterable, unchangeable and unrelated  "cause" (skull shape).
How the fuck is Jordan Peterson Sexist Contra ...SRSLY 😐
Just scrolled top 20 comments - you are that much more and better than your audience. You should deep into daddy Jordan territory though, about how women are genetic selection mechanism and status indicator. There is kind of reverse action in here, its not that you are cant get laid because you are genetically inferior omega, but as soon as you are continuously rejected, you are de facto failing as a biological being, low status social primate with nothing but obligations towards your group.  These are all nerdy scientific kind of guys and this is completely rational and Darwinian point of view. And as soon as they, unlike the chimps, could cause enormous harm to the group in many different ways, monogamy was introduced by paleolithic Chads and enforced since than.
Natalie, have you seen HeyThisIsRya? She's a transwoman who talks about things you imply.
I think you are gorgeous. Yer skull is just right. Point of Order - This could be the best, or only, insight online about INCEL.   Keep it up. Keep reporting, you are better at it than most! :)
Brilliant
The bone shape is a result of testosterone.
Never thought about the skull thing as broader phenomenon before. Just, wow, the fixation seems almost determined to crop up if the conditions are right. I mean, your explanation pretty much covered it, but damn. Psychology is weird.
CHADPREET omfg 💀
There's a certain level of...comfort in being told that everything is hopeless. Sounds strange, I know.  But like, if you're told that you will fail because of some immutable trait, it's actually kind of reassuring. I'm gonna fail no matter what I do, so why bother? It fosters complacency, a sort of comfort.
First ContraPoints video I've ever seen, have to say - that was quite a puzzling opener. The music was pretty classy, though. Could've used a little harpsichord perhaps, to really drive the point home.
This is one of the greatest videos in the history of Youtube.
There were a lot of words in this video that I never heard before. It's amazing how the experiences of other people can be so vastly different from my own.
this is good
I just did some looking at images of men and women and looking at their foreheads.  The whole "vertical" forehead being only for women...is blown out of the water in the first few images.  There are many women that LACK that feature, and there are many men that HAVE that feature.  The whole skull thing is a bunch of bunk for the most part.
This channel really has amazingly impressive content I love it
Yikes
I un subscibed just so I could subscribe again, I love your work
ContraPoints, You are a gorgeous Goddess every day.
Wow! What an interesting perspective! I've watched a lot of videos on incels, but I never would've thought about that link between them and the trans community. It makes perfect sense, though; as soon as you mentioned it, I could see where you were going with it.  I don't think there's anything wrong with having sympathy for incels; in fact, I think it's a good thing. It certainly doesn't equate to agreeing with them or excusing their behavior.
entertaining way to become incel-educated, great work!
omg... This video hits home. I was never really an incel but I came close to that mentality when I was a teenager. I was more of a red piller. Then I realized it's all gender dysphoria.  Now I'm a happy enby :)
What's it called when you are not 100% black pilled? Grey scale?
bu  bu i am a woman with a big noggin,  do i exist?
Wow. I‘m just gonna make this quick; I‘m a white male in his 20s and after experiencing CSD in Stockholm I wondered how I truly feel about any kind of sexuality except hetero. And you not only just showed me in only 35min that trans people are completely normal and can be just as funny, intelligent and well spoken as anyone else but also that I should never generalize any group of people, be it women or members of the lgbt community. Thank you.
Man I came here for salt and I got some damn ASMR. I’m gonna hang around bruh.
Thanks for making this video since the trans subculture intersection is definitely something I've dealt with for years (still am) which has delayed by attempt to transition by ten years. Worse still, I've also had been part of some toxic groups on Second Life despite having some meaningful relationships on the platform. It's something I've learned that you can't grow a thick skin around, you literally do have to cut it out of your life as you mentioned. I just hope some of the guys in the whole incel subculture get out too. It's not worth the pain.
Why is there something rather than nothing?  ... Why is there something rather than nothing, in a world that birthed the Holocaust and the M.A.D. world, etc.?   -Because I will there to be something rather nothing; because I hope there will be something rather than nothing; because I will Something in the face of those who will Nothing. I choose Something rather than Nothing, not because something is more rational than nothing as an end (telos), but because I hope. I resist nihilism, antinatalism, a logic of destruction, a will to Nothing, with hope. I hope there will be something in the future to will.   Why is there something rather than nothing?  - A hope-filled Will.
Why does this remind me of someone thinking along the lines of "Heathcliffe it's me Cathy, I'm so cold let me in through your window" they seem to be lost in a bygone era and fiction.
(Calculates the distance to Baltimore in head...)
christ the first minute was uncomfortable to listen to
I think claiming that hanging around incel forums is unhealthy is one of the few completely apolitical statements that it is possible to make in America these days. Commentators from the far left to the far right and everywhere in between all seem to agree on it.
Holy shit, this video is amazing. Thank you for this. I got into pick up artist stuff to learn some better strategies for dating, but the red pill shit is just oppressive. I have a few friends i habe to share this video with.
I don't see why it's considered Soviet. The Japanese do it, too. And in the same way--take the first one or two syllables of each word.
Do you think some of us could band together to start an opposite r/Braincels thread, like a “get out of your incel-ness” group? Not sure how it might happen, but we might help some people, maybe? I dunno. Something to do with self-support similar to self-help threads. Not sure if the purposes might intersect too much.
What's really unsettling about inceldom, to me at least, is that it reminds me  terribly of the whole idea of that women have an "expiration date" or are unattractive past a certain age (with it's whole base in gendered/hetero anxieties vs. preferences in dating and expectations of partners), and it's almost heartbreaking because it's a little inverse, but we're all anxious and vindictive on the internet, it just manifests in really ugly ways.
Beautiful...  Like you babe.  ;)
I've been in 4chan since 2002 and the site has changed significantly. It's sad to see so much people getting deluded into this Chad/virgin nonsense. And by the way, it only applies to some western societies, (mostly Usa) because the dating scene is VERY different in China where I live.
Great piece! Hits hard. Keep it up!
Love you Natalie, keep making amazing content. I'd never heard the term digital self-harm before but it really drives home the crux of the issue - the harm of negative self reinforcing feed back loops in online echo chambers. You are amazing xoxo :)
...was that your TV remote control you were talking to Stacy on?
Drugcels aren't real. Anyone who's ever actually been an addict would know it's incredibly easy to get laid provided there's an available femoid who's own dependency can be exploited. Now, whether or not your dick will work when the time comes depends on what drugs you're taking, but mostly, it won't. So.. maybe drugcels are a thing after all.
Nice to see skullanon getting his debut from /tttt/!!!
Queen
A well spoken, thorough, good humored channel with well thought out production and scene directive? How have I not seen this before? And she's an intelligent, musically gifted and extremely beautiful goddess. HOW HAVE I NOT SEEN THIS BEFORE?!
Great video! I've never heard of "digital self-harm" before, but it makes a lot of sense as a concept. I'm a person who stutters and as a younger person, I found a pretty dispicable Encyclopedia Dramatica article which likened autism to "stuttering ADD." This was when I was 12. That one article impacted my self-perception for years to come. I used to search for other articles which likened my speech impediment to mental deficiencies. Recognizing that as "digital self-harm" recontextualizes that for me.
Cosmetics, women's clothes, women's hormones, mutilation does not make a man a woman. Nonetheless, I hope you have a good life if you're a good person and women have the right not to lose rights because trans should have rights too. I have no prob with trans if they respect women and all we have gone through with men and the victories we've won. Reality remains despite feelings.
S K U L L P E O P L E
You omitted the 80% of the 80/20 rule otherwise very well put together
What you miss is that a lack of human contact severely damages the human body and mind. The human body requires physical contact to survive. Natural Selection has determined that absent the social contract this individual no longer has any value to the passing on of relevant genes and thus as put in place ways to slowly kill you. Its why prisoners in solitary confinement are 7x more likely to commit suicide than prisoners in the general prison population. Isolation dramatically increases suicidal ideation and mental illness. I am 100% convinced that the reason male suicides are 4x higher than female suicides are because women have a massively easier time getting intimate sex than men do. They never feel crippling isolation and thus don't understand male depression
10/10 ASMR. Heeding the Sirens' call.
Did you know that incel communities have theorized that the rise of transgendered males is a direct consequence of the same sexual stratification that incels suffer from? Many men see how much attention and access to romance women get from modern society via online dating etc., and naively attempt to proxy that security by switching genders. Only these trans men find themselves caught in a twisted, ostracized, decimated void of a body dejected by both men and women who are fundamentally looking for honest sexual signals.
It's not that hard to get laid. You can always find someone to fuck if that goal is important enough to you. Maybe these guys just have unrealistic standards or expectations.
I have always respected you. I don't always agree with your opinions, but can always agree with your approach. You could totally SHIT on incels, like many do, but you sympathize - which we ought to do - and that in a small sense in commendable.
22:13 this is the first vid I watched on ur channel. I literally didn’t know you were trans until u said u had a penis. I aspire to be as hot and confident as u
if they hate women so much why don't they turn to guys🤷🏽‍♀️
Wristcels...... I thought that was gonna be a label for cutters.
I'm thankful for yt algorithm to suggest this channel for me. You're wonderful!!  And Foppington's law is just on point. Though nowadays, people in mainstream communities abandoned anthropometry in favor of badly interpreted/made up genetic research in order to prove their bigoted views to the rest of the world. Just wait and see for incels to catch up with this trend. Oh, wait, nevermind. They already did.
I found you on my recommends 35 minutes ago.  I love you already.  Subbed.  Have a nice day.
The whole 'incel' movement is just... painfully backwards.  Instead of taking responsibility for their own misfortunes and just be fucking GENUINE for once, men fall back on the 'woe is me, woman are evil :( :( '...  Men scare me.
I thought VaatiVidya was narrating the beginning of this video... So soothing.
lol
As a Failed Woman (nonbinary sarcasm), I'm in the odd position of never having been on the receiving end of much male attention, so I never understood the standpoint that women can date whomever they want and are set for a life in luxury if they're willing to put out. In some way, I went through my own female version of the incel rationalization spiral into thinking other girls were Stacies that can date anyone, boys dated up, and that I would always be alone. Later I figured out romance is overrated, somebody will find you attractive no matter what you're like, I had been quite the anxious asshole in the past, and that I wasn't even a girl after all.  Nobody wants to date me now either, but I don't care nearly as much, because I began pursuing a life.
'too many bones, not enough cash? Sell your bones for cash!' 1-800-CASH-BONE!
Funny, a lot of the things you talk about like catastrophizing and black pilling are also applicable to my recent thoughts about climate change. I mean the idea that climate change and increased food scarcity or price fluctuation will lead to more and more instability, extremism and ultimately nuclear war and the extermination of humanity.  At least it got me off my depression about not getting laid hahaha :D
I love thunderstorms. I lived in Arizona for a while and the mansoons were amazing.
I too have a collection of skulls, well I have 2 anyway. one is ceramic, I painted it years and years ago, and the other one, no joke, amazon sent me by mistake. Its a medical display skull, I just never wanted to return it. Call me greedy but when the universe sends you a second free skull (the first one being the one in your head) you keep it.
I just grabbed and ate two small bags of popcorn while watching this entire video. Your content is as amazing and refreshing as a beautiful, psychological-drama film
Totally not relevant, but damn your eye makeup was beautiful.
Wow. Amazing video, well done!
Amazing, respectful and unique video. Bravo!
So ContraPoints has a water fetish - good to know.
Why is this censored? Is this the world we want? Have we reverted back to puritan ideals?  Censorship is always bad. *Always.*
Some dude trying so hard to explain that making bread doesn't immediately make him a woman is probably the funniest thing of all time.  The fact that he feels the need to do this and that there are probably a pretty high number of his followers that need this explanation is probably the saddest. ALSO Lindsay Ellis brought me here.
Wow I didn’t even know u were a tranny.  This is a great vid nonetheless
This is the first Youtube video essay I’ve ever seen that I can safely and confidently say belongs in future history books.
incredible
By the way the first few sentences of the opening poem were nice, and rather beautiful....then it went to subject No. 1 and it became gross.
Again another great, and well done video about something so few actually understand.  I have heard the terms you stated in this, especially the "chad" and "Becky", and now understand where they come from.  Our world is truly messed up for sure.  It is just sad that people fail to understand not everyone is here to reproduce (which is what sex is pretty much all about).
On the matter of 'femoids', I feel the same way about the substitution of 'female' over 'women'. It's disgustingly clinical and not in a sexy way.
Thanks for putting me in a dysphoric mood Abby
My biggest takeaway now that I finished this video:  I am going to fuck the ocean.
First time viewer here and I'm incredibly amazed to learn about all this, especially with you adding points about yourself and a similar community you've gone through in relation to what they're facing, learning about the similarities of two different cultures and how what they do (which probably has some similar form in most other cultures as well I think) affects their mental health is eye-opening.   One thing that kind of baffles me is their blame for how media shaped these women which seems hypocritical because I honestly believe media is partially to blame for shaping the incel beliefs of entitlement to women because of decades of toxic masculinity being portrayed as attractive and the norm, so I was kind of expecting you to maybe touch up on those but already having it in my mind makes me better appreciate that you took it on from a different perspective, more so since I have a sister who's a transwoman so I like learning more about her culture.  So that was long and I just want to basically say thanks and I'm gonna enjoy watching all your old videos and future ones. Also, in case you actually read this, pass on a thank you to Lindsay Ellis for introducing me to you haha!
I love your lighting! And your social commentary!
To be honest, you really don't need FFS and some of the results I have seen of it have made the recipient look like a Campell's kid.  Look, there are women out there that have bone structures that look more "masculine".  Reason being....THERE IS NO SUCH THING AS MALE OR FEMALE BONE STRUCTURE.  I'm male....but I also have a vertical forehead...a characteristic of women, I do not have that pronounced brow ridge.  This whole notion the incels...along with other people putting out there about bone structure is inane, and not based on the reality that people of all sexes, races, and genders have certain features when it comes to their bone structure.  Of course you do what you feel is right, but I don't think I am alone in thinking you really don't need that damnable surgery that only enforces BS stereotypes and beauty standards.
ALL WOMEN ARE QUEENS
13:55 this is a drake-like problem too
You might not appreciate this but they theorize that trans people are just narcissists who failed at attracting people as one gender so are trying with the other. They call it trannymaxxing and there are in depth theories about it, guides etc. The theory behind this movement can go a variety of ways but the most interesting to me is the ones that take looks to be superior to money and status for attracting a partner, they are basically men who have the same obsession with looks women do. It makes sense that trans women can relate because they're undergoing a similar journey from their perspectives, becoming what one is.  I think men worrying about looks is a positive social trend believe it or not. It is utopian egalitarianism to think that the only thing that should matter is looks for men because it does away with the exchange of sex for status, money and power in patriarchy that radical feminists recognize as underpinning rape culture. Focusing on the eugenicist overtones can reveal a lot but I don't think that's enough to understand what's happening. There are greater structural trends that inform these movements and frankly it comes down to the successes of feminism. It's the democratization of appearance anxiety. Of course we might want it to be done away with all together at some point but at least for now it should be recognized as a promising development, the fascism inherent in it is a product of capitalism in the first place.
I'm never going to be able to look at the sea the same way again..
20:50 10/10 joke.
I've never felt worse for incels
Thanks, I always feel quite more wise after a ContraPoint video!
1:42 https://www.psypost.org/2018/08/study-finds-evidence-that-trigger-warnings-can-be-psychologically-harmful-52007 trigger warnings cause harm
Dig it. It's not like there's a human shortage. They get to fuck off. That's Nature's way.  You're lucky. Nature is usually deadly to non-survival types. Usually something eats you.
i lost my shit at *chads of colour*
Superb
I've been trying to block youtube and fb and twitter etc for a while with the hosts file, but i keep finding myself going back anyways. pretty much just down to youtube at this point. managed to break away from my kotaku, wired, reddit, and william gibson's twitter feed finally
When I was in middle and high school I was honestly confused at the choices the girls were making as dates.  I mean, these guys were brutes, bullies, violent, or mentally unstable.  Many of those girls later in life ended up getting beaten to a pulp by some of these guys.  Me personally just never saw much in "hooking up" and the teenage pregnancies that were happening in my school made it that much more a turn off.  That said, the Incel groups are.....pathetic.  But then again people that base their worth off the number of people they have had sex with in many many ways are pathetic as well.  Quite frankly the whole issue of sex is in so many ways irrevocably messed up.  Not sure what can be done about it, though I think exposure of the concepts behind the Incel groups, and the more precise definition of "toxic masculinity", along with the gradual acceptance of gender variant people are a first step.
That reddit op was cringy as fuck ERMAHGERD!
i honestly think with my whole self, my naked and uncompromised mind - that everyone is possessed of beauty. that there are facets of glistening beauty and loveliness shimmering always. what it requires? you only you to look and be to see it. Everyone is beautiful and disagreeing or being cynical and hurting others who are heroic or (in my case) too terminally exhausted to pretend is not about PC in any way. there are moments of ferver, delight and adulation to be  found everywhere and in every face and voice. i do not pretend that everyone is like me, however, i find the idea that my living with an artist's eyes for truth and joy is placating those who are "lesser" to be unwarranted and hurtful.  seeing beauty is sometimes dresses up as the crime of trying to make others happy.  pretending it can only be cynicism is false and often immature. "i feel this way about myself, therefore, nothing else can be true."   an accusation of cynicism is a hurtful way to be blind to the most basic thing in the world.    love looks not with the eyes but with the mind.   the thing about the sacred is it becomes sacred through ritual.
Okay this was way better, thoughtful and sympathetic than I thought it would be thanks for this
"leave my buns alone you savages" lmaoooo but true
This was amazing
Incels - school mass shooter online training grounds. FBI..???
25:09  omg Philosophy Tube
i'm dying XD
I loved watching this video, you've got yourself a new subscriber! The way you talk is very captivating, coherent and interesting. And I love the way you presented the video, with your editing, clothes, makeup, and room decor, very fun and beautiful to watch.
slow clap
This was a great video, I like you a lot - I must subscribe.
Nah. The second these guys started calling for the deaths of women, "normies," and "chads," they crossed over into terrorism. Coupled with the fact that some of these guys have actually gone out and murdered people, any potential sympathy or empathy they could have received was destroyed.    There may be some who can be redeemed from this mindset, but honestly, they should just stay away from women. Even if you could convince them to better themselves and to practice social skills, they'll still have misogyny at their core. Even if they manage to start a relationship, how long do you think it will last? Because as soon as the "holy shit I have a girlfriend" stage passes, the abuse will start.
I mean, women do have a tendency toward hypergamy. And men have a tendency toward hypogamy. But that's a statistical trend, not a rule, and it doesn't always go down that way.
This isn't what "red pill" means to everyone colloquially. The definition you're using here only applies to the communities you mentioned. I think you are smart enough to know this and could be misleading your normie lefty audience.
"25 gay men that like Milo" thanks for the shout out sweetie.
I never find myself really agreeing with your point of view but I do love your videos. They're just so well done and unique. Never stop being you. :)
Natalie has provided a better analysis of the INCEL phenomena than any other. Thank you.
Wow, knocked it outta the fuckin park with this one, kudos.
Firing squad of dicks! Lmao! That is my new favorite phrase this week <3
I’d imagine your video about the #menaretrash thing going on could be interesting
If Nicolas Winding Refn and Stanley Kubrick got together to make social commentary videos, I like to think this would be the result.
Lmao, I love Werner Von Braun!
A lot of this Incel stuff seems a little too real to me, it's a bit scary that over years I had taken on some of that world view without realising (it is a small relief that I never got as far as HATING or attacking the way women look, dress or behave - yikes!). Hell, I didn't even hear the term 'incel' until recently, and it's scary to think I could of turned out like them and only accidentally dodged that bullet.  Being able to look back with invigorated self-awareness, it really is a weird form of masochism that orbits around a vague sense of "look what you did to me" immediately followed by a desire for validation of this perceived slight. It walks hand in hand (oh the irony) with learned hopelessness and an almost militant degree of self-sabotaging behaviour.  It really is true that someone can look like a 10/10, but there is nothing uglier than a rotten personality. And the personalities of the folk on those braincel message boards are fetid by their own design.   On a more positive note, first time viewer, loved your theatrical presentation :)
https://www.scmp.com/news/china/article/2054126/why-do-asians-have-bigger-brains-europeans-or-africans Races do have different skull sizes. https://menghublog.wordpress.com/2012/04/20/brain-size-iq-and-racial-group-differences-evidence-from-musculoskeletal-traits/ Never forget that one study on intelligence boosting genes correlating with current race IQ scores in the right ranking order. http://thealternativehypothesis.org/index.php/2016/04/15/brain-size-race-and-iq/  But this comment is too backed up to get thumbs up. If I spoke nice sounding egalitarian bullshit that would be nice if it were true and gave no sources then maybe...
We live in a society.
I feel like Incels also get their idea of relationships from various toxic places.   One of them is porn.  The chad they describe sounds like the description of the kind of guys you see in porn. Most of the male performers look like total douchebags. Since porn is probably the closest they get to seeing a vagina, they probably also took note of the kind of guys that are in these things.  The other is from naive sayings from people who either never been in a relationship, or based the concept of a relationship from fantasy. Garbage like: "There's someone for everyone," gives people a distorted sense of entitlement. No, there isn't someone for everyone. There are plenty of people who ends up being alone for the rest of their life, or ends up in various bad relationships thinking they found the one. Sure, some people can get married, but they still end up being divorced due to various reasons. Some people can marry multiple times and go through multiple divorces, and at the end of the day, what do they have to show for it other than a bunch of mistakes in their life?   I'm not saying you should throw your hands up and give up. You should still try to find that special person in your life. However, don't live your life believing some fantasy. You could every well search your whole life and never find someone that's right for you. Just don't give up without at least trying.
I don't understand the focus on slender wrists. For me it's not the slenderness of a man's wrist that turns me off, it's how pudgy his hands are. Yuck! Nothing sexy about pudgy hands. Give me long strong lean hands with a little bit of hair on the back any day.
Hi ContraPoints, this was the first video I watched of your channel, and my first thought was, "Oh here is a woman explaining cultural issues that I am interested in, this is what I need because I only see men talking about these topics." I've been watching the rest of your channel and it is so helpful.   I am a government student in postgraduate study, I've struggled for a long time resisting the Jordan Peterson's of the world, mainly because I am academically interested in conservative politics and realism.   It's a paradox allot people can't seem to understand, that I support progressive politics but focus my study on conservatism, and like, after studying George W. Bush for years I've started to enjoy the guy and feel genuinely sorry for him even though under his watch the whole world went to shit. But often when I try to talk to other people about my ideas and concepts, I get shouted at about neoliberalism called a fascist.   I grew up on 4chan and have lurked r9k for years writing sociology essays about incels and redpills, but the whole anti-feminism debate, cultural Marxism - whatever - has never interested me. I've always been into hard politics, realism, game theory, nuclear proliferation which seems very right wing to allot of people. I've tried to counterbalance all this by ranting about the danger of climate change to everyone who would listen but even so people would write me off as a fascist and shout at me about neoliberalism.   Allot of people on the left don't seem to understand that this is entirely unhelpful, I might be a progressive-moderate, but just being shouted all the time makes you feel isolated, resentful of social justice warriors and the left pushing me down the rabbit hole of Jordan Peterson, Pragur-U and Ben Shapiro for a very long time.  Even though I didn't agree with everything they said, I think the content is designed to target people like me specifically. It is easy to take refuge in these men because it looks like a safe place where people outside of mainstream politics can gather. These men focus their discussion on open debates which is so tempting for government students who are scared to talk about politics. The effect of this exposure was to push me away from progressive values and towards this very insidious, sexist and racist form of rightwing politics.  I've been suffering the paradox of feeling marginalised and repressed by capitalism but at the same time brainwashed into thinking that inequality is a good thing and that the free market creates jobs for the working class. Anyway, my form of resisting has been through studying international public health. Shifting my brain from thinking about inequality to measure a state's success through equal access to health care has been very helpful in resisting these men.   Anyway, I just wanted to say I think you are doing great work with this channel, I love the sets, and I'm going to be recommending you to all my friends.
Be it i'm ftm, she's a way hotter woman than I ever was.
Olly's American accent O_o
Everything about this video is so great. The TTTT shit fucking hurt tho took me way too deep into my dysphoria. When am I gonna stop thinking about how girly I look. Why do people say those things.
S U R P L U S     E N J O Y M E N T
even though I disagree with you on a few things I genuinely enjoy you, what you have to say, and your aesthetic. Keep being awesome.
Incels have been with the human race for as long as it existed. Men have to compete for women, and some men just cant or wont compete. Any hatred they feel is a result, not a cause. They dont get women because they hate them, they are already lost. It's just evolution.  On the bright side, Tinder has solved most of these problems. You can fuck anything you encounter now that gives you the time of day.
I'd be into more Phrenology ASMR
12:15 oh man I have never seen more hopeless insecurity
I had no idea these guys were measuring bone length my god.
It is not the words that are infectious, it is the meme that is at their core. It is an easy, lazy answer to: "What is wrong with me?" -- Nothing, nothing at all. That answer is much easier to hear than, you're a piece of crap that needs to get their shart figured out. Self inquest is never the easy answer and always takes a lot of work. That is no longer the modern way or standard to solve any problems. Go to the doctor and have him write you a prescription to fix you instead of exercise, balanced diet, good night of sleep, etc. Give me the quick fix DOC!  The meme of incell is a thought architype like most good memes. In this case it is a logical self fulfilling trap.
Hey Incels, Currycel here, stop worrying about getting a gf. Do something creative, try and make money, it's a good alternative if you can't find happiness with women, its what I've been doing for a while and I feel a lot better than I did 2 years ago. Making music, writing books, painting art pieces all give you a sense of fulfilment that you need/crave (helping people also gives you the same feeling)  Also get a dog, from a shelter preferably. Those bitches will love you unconditionally.
Man that was gay, but nice
A part of me wants to believe that the last part of the video was you literally telling incels to just walk into the ocean
The sea forgives all. Not like those mean old mountains. I hate them so much!
I think this is one of the best videos you've done, Natalie, but also one of the most depressing and disturbing one. Personally, I felt really uncomfortable when you had PhilosophyTube reading these depressed incel posts while trying to do it in a funny way, because I just can't find anything funny about it.  These people have severe mental health issues - it's like reading the writings of someone right before they commit mass murder (which in some cases I guess it is).
"becky" literally looks just like my friend lmao
Well, this was dark and personal at times, and especially interesting! I can't wait to see more ContraPoints, I'm subscribing!
15:42 What can Call of Duty: Black Ops II do for *YOU?*
This video is exactly what I've been waiting for. Thank you for your this and I admire your courage.
You know, I have a *huge* thing for beards but that beard on Roosh ugh.  Is it an ugly beard by nature or is it just who it's attached to?
I love you
Do these men want their counterparts?
"The manisphere exists because rock and roll is dead"  is.... scary accurate
"WHAT IS IT WITH YOU PEOPLE AND SKULLS?"
This is my first vid after glossing over a couple of recommendations for a few days...  and I’m in fucking love with you!  Bravo!  Bravo!  👏🏼   Also I actively like your head but I get it.  I can’t go anywhere in anything resembling feminine attire because I feel like I look something like the simian Neanderthal we all truly aspire to be... heh...  my legs are bangin’ though so fuck it.
I can understsnd criticizing MGTOW. They're proud, they're active, they're doing things, they have a fractional impact on society as whole, so alright, fair game.  But what does it take to look at a group of people whose defining two characteristics are   A. My life is terrible  And B. It's only getting worse from here  And decide "Yes. This is a group I need to drop a big passive aggressive shit on."? In the words of SJWs trying to dismiss the value of personal experince the world over:  "Who hurt you?"
That video was amazingly creative and showed a lot of talent.  There are probably people in the entertainment industry who don't have as much talent.
Wow, this is really good. I've seen a lot of people try to explain incels after spending a day on the internet, but you've clearly done a lot of research - not to mention how entertaining and well polished it is. WP
I'm sorry these guys (incels) are FUCKING PATHETIC, I'm a ugly cunt but i have had quite a lot of girlfriends, but i have also had LONG PERIODS when i haven't had a girlfriend, it's just LIFE
okay. . . .    . . . . i kinda felt like i could have easily been one of these people had i not found coping mechanisms, but now i see it's somehow far far deeper than I thought. . . .. . .whoa. . . .   . . . also, these people believe sluts exist.   hmmmmmmmm   as for online dating, I know a guy that joined bumble . . . . . . . .it's DEAD.
Well I myself am not an incell, I do feel as if to some degree they might be right. It used to be that guys didn't have to go to the gym or have a well paying job due to the decline in traditional values.  I am not in the place to judge whether or not this is a good thing.  Although there is a point to address, this point being that it leaves a lot of people behind that will not be able to adapt to these changes. Such people will naturally become frustrated by there inability to function in society, and may even dare I say become angry and in some cases even violent.
Yeah.... yeah... A trans person mocking incels would be something special. I mean you're both at the lowest end of the totem pole.... Wouldn't look good optically...  I advise the rest of you commie dorks and libs to look in the mirror before talking shit.... I've seen you Antifa.... Its not sexy...
iM uLTrA MAsCuliNE
i seen the terms “chad” and “incel” everywhere but never knew what they meant/referred to until i watched this video which now is bad cuz i’m like the parents on facebook where they learn one cool words “the kids are saying” then they use it in every sentence and that’s exactly what i’m gonna do
"Men like scientific things." YES TINDER IS TRASH. Even "better" apps are still trash. LDAR. lol This was brilliant. Hilarious, relatable, and also chilling all at the same time. Also you are NO hon, my god. Your appeal is second only to the sea. <3
A lot of incels are men with anxiety and psychological problems. This impacts men way more when it comes to sexuality. Acquiring sex is much easier for women. Women and feminists don't understand this sort of thing. Women get validated sexually all the time, men have to work for it. Sexuality and human touch is a human need. Which is why they go nutty.  But of course no one gives a fuck about this problem of theirs so they join up together because at least they can empathize with each other.  If incels were majority women, the conversation would be completely different.  So go ahead and make fun of them because it won't resolve anything.  *PS: Marry me Contra*
I'm afraid of the sea the vast and unknown mystery's of its depths chills me. or may be it's just the fact that when I was little I almost drown in a pool.
this is significant
Please keep talking about the rain... *shiver* <3
I used to be an incel and thankfully I no longer identify with that crowd. Unlike them I've never hated women, just myself for not being good enough for them.   Off topic but I never thought I'd find a trans woman attractive and you just shattered that illusion. You are quite beautiful
Great video. I like that you showed some empathy whilst keeping your weird humor in.
I’ve never been to this channel before but nw I’m in love with you, so that’s cool. 😈😜
so, what you're saying is... think of a burial at sea?  How morbid!
Alguien de buen corazón que pueda subtitular el video, quiero entender :,c
How do you make a video about incels into a deep cometary on human nature, this was incredibly insightful
People seriously think this way?.....What is happening here........
I sympathize with ur digital self harm story, I'm a trans guy and our equivalent of /tttt/ is the truscum community of tumblr. Basically it's a bunch of self hating trans guys who like policing who is and who isn't a trans guy. It often doesn't involve vocabulary like Hon, but I guess you could call their idea of a false trans man "Skylar" (that's a ref for those of u familiar with truscum tumblr). Skylars are trans men that have no dysphoria or at least not enough to stop them from wearing feminine clothing, put minimal effort into covering their breasts, hips, etc... and overall will never pass and are viewed as hugboxers by truscum trans guys. I am a trans man with huge hips, almost completely unbindable tits, and a feminine gay disposition and I guess I would qualify as a Skylar by this definition. However, I was incredibly dysphoric, and what ended up happening was that I digitally self harmed by reading truscum posts along with posts by run of the mill cis transphobes. I've started cutting back since I got on antidepressants, but I still unfortunately do it sometimes.
Not all incels are like this. I ecpect this type of generalization from the MSM, but this is juat ridiculous.
You are so much kinder to those weirdos than I am. I hate it when people aren't willing to improve themselves. It gets on my last nerve.
Jeez the 4th Base part of this video bummed the hell out of me.
+ContraPoints Isn't it a _little_ unfair to lump in Father's Rights Activists (also known as Men's Rights Activists) in with the pick-up artists, Incels, and MGTOWs?  I mean, we wouldn't lump Feminists (a.k.a. Women's Rights Activists) in with the actual man-haters, so why should we lump Father's Rights Activists in with the PUAs?
RiceCels and CurryCels???  Fuck me, that's so racist it's actually hilarous.  WTF
Ugh your videos are too fucking good 😭😂
Okay I demand a full-length Skull ASMR video pls
Mgtow is really worrying me just like some fascist talking points slip in to center skeptic talking points so does mgtow. I understand how some feminism is truly awful, even criminal saying we should lock up all men or all heterosexual sex is rape. However mgtow takes that and just dives in too deep. Please do a debate or a separate video on mgtow PLEASE
i love you contra
I want to see how incels react to this video
damn those costumes
I love your videos, its a shame you haven't looked into stalin's legacy all to much.
There is a bit of hypocrisy in the existence of incels. Mostly in that straight women and queer people have to deal with rejection too, and aren't massive assholes about it.   Gonna get personal as an example. So, men have never shown any interest in me. This has understandably made me feel really lonely and isolated growing up. I'm a super romantic person, which made the loneliness worse and all my friends were really pretty and sought after. As a teenager, this catastrophic thinking really fueled my depression too. Still, I NEVER took these feelings out on men or even other girls. It hasn't stopped me from being good friends with guys I had crushes on or the girls they dated.   I got better with the feelings of isolation by taking time to get to know myself. I've still never dated anyone, but I've never been happier. I spend time with friends, and focus on my interests and ambitions. I think coming to terms that a relationship isn't going to magically fix all of your problems is really important.   I really wish the best for everyone dealing with this sort of thing and encourage them to not be so catastrophic. There are so many different types of loving relationships that aren't romantic that you may be missing out on because you're wallowing in hatred and self-pity.
I came here from someone's retweet and OH! MY! GOD! your content is amazing! Immediately subscribed
holy shit mickey mouse and winny the pooh, i can hear it now
Jesus Christ that intro.
You're a genius. Thank you.
Love your show. Wow. You know how to Youtube. I think that Incels are right about the economics of sex, but here’s the thing: ITS NOT OTHER PEOPLES PROBLEM.  No one has to answer for not being sexually attracted to you.  It’s not a legitimate social justice issue. One has to be self-reliant about one’s self-esteem. Because you have no choice. It’s either that or go mad and become a hazard.
That was very informative and interesting  I didnt even know what an incel was until like 2 months ago and my friends explained the "lore" to me esp. Focusing on elliot rodgers
This was my first time watching one of your videos. You absolutely won me over. I subscribed to your channel halfway through the video. Looking forward to more of your great content. And, while I know this is totally unsolicited (and I apologize if its overstepping boundaries), I think you look absolutely gorgeous just the way you are. Keep doing what you're doing, appearance and content-wise!
Love you. I was mostly hating and being disgusted by incels, now it's slightly less manicheaic (manichean?). Thanks for all and for those amazing videos. Thanks for having them subtitled also.
Man... I’m really craving some chad skulls to fuck
You are wrong! First: Incels generally  believe that  PUA does not work ! Second: Majority of incels dont have high standards, reason incels dont get have sex is because they are either  ugly or  dont know how to interact with women in order to get women have sex with them! And the reason you dont empathize with incels  is because you are  hateful !
"I A M N O T A W O M A N"
Recently I said I Identify as demisexual in a comment section, basically someone who is only attracted to someone they are very close to and don't really have a high sex drive; not really asexual but still not having a huge interest in sex. And someone responded it was a made up term and I'm pretty sure conflated me with an incel. It was bizarre and infuriating.  I have suffered from self loathing and anxiety about my looks, thus I've felt like no one will be attracted to me or love me. But at the same time I never really ever had a true desire to engage in sex, though I do have sexual desires. Its just not a huge priority or interest.  Heck I've never been in relationship and I'm 30. This is not only due to my demisexuality but also just personal hang ups brought on by past trauma. Aka I've had a fear of men.  And right now I'm just a bit more occupied improving myself and living situation, and just trying to love myself, which is corny but the most apt term I can think of. Its very difficult to engage in love and intimacy when you have just so little love for yourself. But for fuck sakes you can't blame a whole gender for your feelings of self loathing. Sex can be great but yeah I wish people would stop believing its the main thing in life. But thats hard to disbelieve when you're barraged by commercials, movies, tv shows and all kinds of people saying that sex is fantastic and the only thing that matters. And if you're not having sex you're loser, regardless of the fact that hey maybe its again not a high priority for some people personally. So yeah step away from the forums that stink of negativity and encourage self loathing. It will only lead to pain...
I don't think incels need any more salt, so telling them to embrace the sea may be a bad idea.
I always thought these taxonomies were memes meant to be dumb
Dear lord, just look at Rooshie-boy's beard. Big, wiry, and unkempt--that is not the beard of a happy man. Incels may be some miserable fucks, but pickup artists seem pretty depressed too. This is not a worldview that leads to happiness, for anyone.
You are doing god’s work Thank you
Yep, this one's going in my cringe compilation
Burning question: what are you drinking in this video?
I’m so glad to find a youtuber who is as gay for the sea as I am.
One interesting thing about hypergamy... There is a fair amount of evidence for it being true. One study in particular comes to mind: https://www.yourtango.com/2016285828/women-find-80-percent-men-unattractive-says-crazy-study  Not agreeing with or justifying the negativity of incels. Your video is the most empathetic things I've seen come from someone I would put on the left of the political spectrum. I agree with almost everything you've said in it.  I just wanted to provide a data point.
You're a fucking idiot. The problem is casually sleeping around and the destruction of marriage, but you're too hot headed to admit that.
If she's ugly, I'm a hideous horse-beast.
an important point to make, if incels will never breed, why do we care what they whine about?
I genuinely never knew "hon" was a slur. Thanks for the informative content as per, CP c:
good video, thanks for making this. I never heard about half this stuff but a bit in passing on the news commentators mention "incel" in passing more just as a bullet point in a long list of crazy stuff on the interwebs. Good luck with being famous, if it's any conciliation I never heard of you before somehow stumbling on this video
Nope nope nope. Not going to read the comments: I have enough knowledge into what Incel is about to know how toxic conversations revolving around the topic can get.
This was a very good video and well-done. Sure, you have an agenda and perspective but I think a lot of great points were raised and the section on cyber harm and the black pill were really strong. This was one of the best takes I've seen on incels.  The incel social phenomenon is not going away. A lot of the analysis provided by those in more mainstream media tends to be demonising or really does propose that these men just ought to "get good" and then all their loneliness and social dysfunction will disappear. This sort of "insight" actually does more harm than good as you have a many men simply becoming unreachable and unconnected. Life is hard to navigate, with modern society even more so. In that sense, the advice given in this video should be heeded.
Still fuck tho
You are not a woman gmfag
I landed here because Lindsay Ellis mentioned you in one of her videos. The recommendation was spot on. Love your work so far and I can't wait to see more!
23:00 oh yeah, I remember that Elliot Rogers murderer. I remember thinking he seemed like a handsome and soft spoken person and couldn't get why he wouldn't be able to have decent relationships with women so he he must have been a huge jerk or psycho.. well, yeah I guess it turned out he was.
Feeeeeemales
Do you keep up with your musical talent anymore? Now that you have transitioned, perhaps the Zeppelin and M. Waters are more awkward to commit to film, but think of what you could achieve with some PJ Harvey covers. - Seriously though, I miss your talents on guitar and piano.
I hate women......and men.....and those that leith betwixt....pretty much anything in the universe I hate
wait, is this "red pill" thing what Trumpies are always talking about? I thought it was some kind of political thing... no?
the inherent eroticism of the Sea?  I thought I had an exclusive relationship with the Sea, and now I find out that not only is that not true,  You (The Sea) I'm talking to theSea here, is seeing ContraPoints?  At  the very least this body of water could have inroduced us!   Wait!  Pacific or Atlantic,  I don't want to fly of the handle.
rekt
Natalie. Loved the video. Keep up the good work.
why did you show raw beef under the words "roast beef"? Seems femoid is the least denigrating term they have , it's kind of neutral I guess.
Sounds about right...Taking miscellaneous facts about life and society and putting them together to fit their narrative. So, someone sees these facts put together to fit a narrative that they WANT to believe is true, and thus now have a justification for their desire to believe something is true. This is not unique, especially on the internet. There's a certain black Youtuber who thinks racism never existed for example, and that people just hated black people for other reasons. You will love the hypocrisy he has in some of his views though...so you can check it out at your own pleasure/peril lol.  Ok, so let's assume everything they say about sex preferences between hetero men and woman are right. What does that prove? ALL it says is that people are shallow when it comes to sex. Yes people, not just woman. That's because things go both ways here - men also have their preferences when it comes to physical attractiveness. In fact, as much as they blame woman for their shallowness when it comes to things like status and bone structure, woman blame men for things like wanting perfect t&a, skin, face and body in general. I'm absolutely positive there are statistically close to as many incel woman due to their physique as there are incel men due to theirs.   This is all fine by the way, because we can't control who we are attracted to. This is like if gay men were to complain that there aren't enough men to f. If you're in the minority in terms of what people find sexually attractive, that sucks. However, complaining about it and especially making the other seem like they're directly responsible and demonizing them is the absolute worst thing you can do about it. So if you're in the minority in terms of what nature selected for, then you are going to have problems in that area. You can work to change that though, and every once and a while nature doesn't matter as much as luck does. You might get lucky and find another incel on the other side that you find attractive! You can then convince them that you are just as terribad as them, and you two can be happy in your misery together!
That was a fantastic watch! Educational, funny, insightful and... Well let's be frank, kind of disturbing at times. Thank you. 😁
Please feel free to mock away, I thought this was a joke when i first heard about it ,it is funny though.
Tracy wants to fuck the ocean
I feel a tremendous amount of ambivalence when watching your videos. There is joy in seeing my opinions reflected, and the pissiness that comes with thinking anytime I express said opinions folk will think I am aping you. Love your work.
lol
Excellent video, awesome lighting.
This video made me feel less weird about that time I jerked off in the ocean.
ngl, if you gave up The Discourse and took up ASMR I don't think any sane individuals would complain.
Excellent video. I am always impressed with how you can expand the subject and frame the bigger picture, but this one was especially significant.
This is very deeply reminding me of everyday experiance of racism, which seems often, especially if it is very mild, somthing you can tolerate or what is working according to rules "what hurts is true" so you accually internalize racist depiction of yourself and others
Thank you for doing this so I didn’t have to.
I love that you manage to be compassionate to even the ugliest of your opposition. I love your tone of "your experience is valid but your conclusions aren't."   P.s. Will you ever do a meetup? Some of us Bmore area folks would be stoked to show up for that.
My dick got really confused when she said she used to be a man  Explains why I initially thought her voice was weird
Extremely informative video! Mind if I subtitle it in portuguese?
Contra you destroyed theryn's marriage you've already became a monster.
It's just reddit losers that spent ages 12-19 playing xbox all day, eating cheetos and watching Forsen on twitch
Thank you for talking about the troubling parts of inceldom, while still having compassion for the members of it. The part about being on Tinder as MfW and WfM was particularly informative. Also, you look good. I don’t say that unless I mean it.
I stopped at 2:43. It seems to me to misrepresenting already the population of single hetero dudes.
This is so real it hurts. I used to be involved with incels, because I was depressed and isolated. I was so delusional and I hated myself so much. It was a lot of self hatred. The forums I would read were really infectious too.
I am: sailor Seeking: the open sea
Amazing, amazing video. I have been somewhat intimidated by the length of many of your videos and was wary that costuming was being substituted for clear and incisive analysis. I WAS WRONG!  Great video!
This is the first of your videos I've ever watched and I didn't even think you were trans until you mentioned it. I was suprised!
19:03 hilarious.
Another faaaaantastic video, you absolute wonder Natalie <3
Jesus christ your content is so fucking good.
https://youtu.be/AsA4CoCjp-8
Great video x
Wow. I like you very much.
Anyone else looking forward to a 10-hour ASMR video from ContraPoints with whispering over skull-tapping interspersed with erotic sea clips?
19:44 Maybe he is synaesthetic
The introduction just gave me an unerection... I feel legitimately disgusted good video though
#notalldicks xD  I think I´m in love with you o.o
Why don't they rename blackcel to kfcel
"Never heard a song in his entire life" is such a bizarre criticism.
22:20   okay...i never had an asmr response that quick....  only took a few seconds.
This is terrifying and heartbreaking. Amazing work.
Wow, a tour de force, Contrapoints. Great balance between sociological observation, psychological insight, relevant personal disclosure, moral concern and critique, and genuine empathy (not to mention "on point" humor!). Really well done.
Incels=future serial killers and rapists
the transition of the skull over her face was cool... also i love her voice sm. ok time to watch the video
How am I just finding this channel??? You are incredible omg
Why does it matter that she's trans? She's gorgeous AF. :3 (Clearly, she has that superior bone structure or something.)
Just want you to know Contra that you are a feminine beauty and you've really blossomed this past year, coming into your own in every conceivable way! Looks, makeup, style, content, acting, humor, etc.etc.   I'm not just saying that either like the usual fan lip service or internet flattery you mentioned. I really mean it regardless of whether you believe it or not! If you want proof of your Intrinsic beauty than look no further than your goddess like empathy (and those eyes hot damn!) the most beautiful ability a person can have! And you have it in loads. I know its often for the sake of a fair arguement but you do genuinely seem like you try to understand those you speak out against. Perhaps not in an effort to change those in your spotlight to far gone but to change those like them or who might become like them. Its an underated ability which we need more of in the online forum.  Also last but not least you are funny as fuck. Love ya!
She's good. Engaging, smart, and funny. Subbed
Ref. "alpha fux, beta bux"...  That implies the manosphere has a strange, incomplete and contradictory definition of "alpha", which excludes the ability to support a household, a traditional measure of masculinity. Not too many generations ago it would have been actively shameful for a middle-class woman to work, as it would have reflected badly on her husband's ability to bring in an income.  Also, they don't follow the "red pill" metaphor to its conclusion. Obviously the reference comes from the Matrix. But in that film, the "red pill", for all its symbolism, exists within the simulation, not outside it.
"Masochistic epistemology"... That word sent shivers down my spine, because that has been pretty my worldview, and I didn't even realize that.   Thank you Natalie, it's nice that someone coined that word and has the same problem. I thought I was crazy for being obsessed with blocking myself from websites.
This was surprisingly depressing wowie
i've never commented on a youtube video before and i'm not a big commenter in general, but i've had some thoughts on this video that won't leave me alone. not sure if you're much of a comment replier but it seemed worthwhile to share my thoughts in case you or someone else might be able to shed light on some things i feel murky about.  as a cis woman who has struggled with body image and beauty norms my whole life, i have to admit that i flinched when you mentioned your plans to get facial feminization surgery. my gut reaction was to think "what a waste, you're perfect just the way you are!" obviously i can't relate to the specific experience of gender dysphoria (which you so brilliantly portrayed in a previous video) but i do feel that being dissatisfied with oneself, and particularly with one's appearance, is as fundamental to "womanhood" as anything else, and in fact that's part of why i feel that trans women have just as much claim to womanhood as cis women. we are all held to an impossible standard, and some women (trans and cis alike) respond to societal pressures by going to drastic lengths to modify their bodies in the pursuit of obtaining the "ideal" female form. and although that's a matter of personal choice it does feel somewhat like a betrayal of women who can't or won't go to the same lengths. (and i think it's worth noting that cosmetic procedures seem very different to me than taking hormones or getting surgeries to modify primary sex characteristics, though i can't quite articulate how.)  so while the better part of me wants to be unequivocally supportive of trans women doing whatever helps them feel more comfortable with their bodies and move through the world more easily, there's still that stubborn [screechy feminist] voice in my head that cries out in dismay i think for too long about the implications of facial feminization surgery. maybe i just need to stop overthinking it and leave people alone who are just trying to make their lives easier by not getting misgendered or harassed at the supermarket. probably.  anyway thanks in advance to anyone who wants to take the time to respond to my dumb opinions and thank you to contrapoints for [always] making me think.
A lonely bisexual? Wow rejected from both sides.
Roosh V is so pathetic.
Pretty much sounds like inverted feminism to me. Victim status for the win.
add me to the list of fans telling you that you're a gorgeous goddess
Rock and Roll may be dead but Slamming Brutal Death metal is not god damn it!!. Unsubscribed!
So two things about incels: they're aiming for the wrong girls and they reek of desperation.   Girls can usually smell when you're being disingenuous from a mile away. If you set up a date and she thinks it's for a relationship and you're mainly thinking about sex, she can tell and probably won't be interested in a second date. There are plenty of girls who are aromantic and would be up for casual sex. But those aren't the girls Incels want.   They're also not aiming at girls who they could even hold a conversation with. If your Tinder says that you like video games, golden age comics, and want to be a Twitch streamer maybe stop swiping on the girls in yoga pants who like jogging and traveling. You're probably not gotta get anywhere with her.
It's scary (/sad?) how much of that "Becky" stereotype described me😆 Don't come after my messy bun and refusal to wear makeup on a daily basis, bro! Also, have incels never watched any TV sitcoms before? Because in almost every single one there's a big fat guy married to a "hot babe." I would think that society encourages "ordinary" looking men to think they can still marry a model, because I see couples IRL like that all the time! But then again that's from my perspective as a white cis woman who has been rejected and had her heart broken many times before finally finding true love that's going 7 years strong. But my point is it takes a lot of pain and heartbreak for everyone to find love. To think you're special because of your looks so your rejection is more painful than ours is incredibly small-minded (and that's my PG version).
lmfao!!!
First video I watch from you. Goodbye everybody, I'm gonna go binge watching every single frame from this channel 'cause this is pure gold 🌟🌟🌟🌟🌟
I love everything you said, this video is amazing through and through. I subscribed immediately!
I was shocked when you revealed you're trans. You are pretty damn attractive. Part of it is the way you present yourself in the video, but...yeah, even your voice is fine.  I have a feeling incels won't be around long, as a community. It's sort of a meme, the way they talk and respond to current social trends. Lots of them will grow out of it.
Well done Sis... Well done.
And I thought people's obsession with skin-color was bad. I guess they took the whole "beauty is on the inside" a tad to literally and considered bones to be a quality in declaring the master-race.
SMASHED THE SUBSCRIBE BUTTON
I think a lot of the "women hating" might come from the fact that it's just easier to blame others, especially women who are often bombarded with options as you demonstrated with the Tindr comparison. When you see other people succeeding and you are not, it's just a lot easier to blame them rather than go through serious self reflection and improvement. After a while, the blame twists into hatred for a lot of the unhealthy mental states you explored in your video. I'm not saying it's right. But I think that might be a primary cause.
Wow my brother just sent me this. Insta subscribed! Very funny and sweet <3
I for one welcome the incel insurrection. At least my genioplastic clinic will be swimming in customers for that Chad chin elongation.
Why don't incels just get a waifu instead?
Intro killed me
I would also be super interested in a video on the overlap between the manosphere and fascist &/or white supremacist online spaces. How do incels react/respond to crypto fash rhetoric on their boards? Where does red pill ideology fit in to the worldview of specific "alt right" groups? Do they actively seek out recruits among lonely, desperate, self-loathing men?  I know you mentioned that there are incels who are poc, and I'm not trying to skip over that. TBH I'm most interested in, what is the path of average-to-nerdy white guys becoming radicalized, what does that actually look like, what attracts/interests them about it, etc. (And is anyone successfully intervening?)
Ugly Short Man - 3 matches on Tinder and those are from 1/10 obese uglies Ugly Short Female - 1000 matches on Tinder and most of them from average guys
Damn that intro makes me fucking uncomfortable. Christ, how did this make it onto my recommended vids
Wow Wow Wow. This is the best.
In my interpretation black pill is set of alternative values that replace society's values and morals. People who are worthless to society use this alternative values to make self worth something at least from their own perspective. Black pilled incels still cannot get love, but they can accept different meaning of love and once fully accepted it can feel real. It is less about catastrophe and more about finding anything valuable in your life and living with what you got. In my view suffering is the road to salvation to which entry can only be paid in blood.
I'm a woman whose skull, according to the psychologist who measured it, exhibits a "mild macrocephaly".  This means it's two standard deviations above the average for my gender, so larger than that of most men.  Despite this, I don't pass for a trans woman because my bone structure is otherwise so fine, my skin extremely soft.
I think the points of made about the an incels pathological desire for self harm is dead on.  If just not getting laid was really the core part of the problem, that could be easily fixed by prostitution.  Granted not every community has easy access to sexual services, but is just go to show that the problem is a deep rooted psychological self loathing rather than a physiological deprivation.
I still don't understand why people want to screw the ocean
Thank you Contra, for providing much needed insight regarding this unfortunate topic.  Unforseen side-effect= Watching Philosophy Tube videos is going to be a little different now....[blush/cringe]. Thanks again
5th Base: A N A L
your channel is a gift
so relieved I'm not the only one that thinks Elliot Roger was attractive. very sean cody
They're basically you, only they're more easy to identify since they're just males... so I guess a little bit better than you.
wow dat ending,  I'm actually impressed by the poetry, that hasn't happened in a long time you sir/madam are talented
Damn this is some deep stuff that I feel like someone needed to say, especially someone with such a unique yet knowledgeable veiwpoint
but how can we bring rock back?
I regret that I have but one thumbs-up to give to this video.
Read Bowling Alone. The atomization and the consequences such as a rise of incels goes further then them being losers or narcissistic. ContrPoints you are not that smart. AlternativeHypothesis owns you everytime. You have to flat out ignore him because you can't muster a response. You know the deep down you are an idiot.
There is also a chrome extension called BlockSite where you can easily create a list to block harmful websites. Great video, i will follow the natureporn advise too. ;)
"lamentation and cuckoldry" hahaha oh how i love thee
So uh, I just realized, how does the incel community explain aging and the loss of youthful beauty during aging? If chads and stacies exist, they won't be that way for long. Everyone ages. The assumption, say, that a woman in her 30's would leave her husband for some chad boyfriend doesn't hold water unless she actively jumps from boyfriend to boyfriend on a constant basis, and at that point that just sounds utterly tiring.
There is no such thing as Incel  There is only Volrehipro - voluntarily refuse to hire a prostitute
your hair looks mad good styled like that. And as always you're smart af and have major insight <3 love ya contra
How to get women as an incel! A 1-step guide: Step 1: Don't call yourself an Incel.  Think about it, you willingfully identify yourself as someone who no woman wants to fuck. Really? Why not like a musician? Or a science whiz? A creative writer? Life doesn't revolve entirely around fucking women! You don't want to be lonely? Maybe you should stop going on the internet, specifically a place where people only bolster your opinion.
chadpreet, I am now dead
So alphas follow the D.E.N.N.I.S. System. It's kind of like when I found out that the Klan was originally a LARPing group; now I cannot take them the least bit seriously now that I know this.
great video
funny that an image of Peterson appears when you say: "clean your room!" ^^
I'm a Stacy who dresses like a Becky.  I'm also a voluntary celibate.
The internet was a mistake
Amazing video!
My own modernist artistic predilections were triggered that you chose to pair the atonal chamber music with the demented wristcel rant.
It's very frustrating for someone who should be revolutionizing cognitive neuroscience (or something) to be falling in love with you. Seems unnecessary (much like cognitive neuroscience).
16:30, how many ? Liked the video tho :ok_hand:
Excellent video as always.
You're my favorite liberal YouTuber. In fact, you're the only liberal YouTuber I watch. All the rest are narcotically boring Trump's-a-literal-Nazi herpty-derps.
"Femoid Science" sounds like the kind of absurd pseudoscience you would find in a humor-based coffee-table book you'd find in Urban Outfitters.
OH MY GODDDD
“Bread scientist” 😂
what are you
The more you learn about Eliot Rodger, the more you realize it isn't adequate to simply describe him as an incel. He was a human manifestation of pure entitlement. This kid spent a small fortune on lottery tickets because he convinced himself the universe _owed_ him the jackpot. He drove around in a brand new BMW, wearing Gucci sunglasses, drinking overpriced coffee, thinking to himself: "if only I had more money, I could get a cutie blonde girlfriend."
I'm certainly no advocate for violence against women, but when it comes to venting anger online, isn't it funny how so many feminists will give a pass to writers like Valerie Solanas (let's cut up men!) or Andrea Dworkin (let's castrate men!), and yet instantly condemn these incel types for engaging in much the same cathartic (if a tad silly) behavior?
This was great, funny and informative.
Some women just need to take one for the team before the incel rebellion really begins, problem solved.
You're absolutely amazing! I'm a 45 year old man, of average attractiveness, who loves women. I never had an issue with having fulfilling sexual relationships over the last three decades. I never understood the incel mindset, until now. Thank you.
Flagged for mature audiences only due to that sexy, sexy sea.
I have written a comment like a thousand times and erased it because I don't know how to connect the many thoughts that resonate on my head after watching this video. Hopefully, this last try is somehow decent. I identify a lot with what is talked about here, I see the things I used to think about the world at large, and how I viewed myself because of my circumstances. I'm glad I got through some of it, but it's hard to battle the feelings of inadequacy when they seem so unsormountable. The hardest part about getting out of that late stage of catastrophizing is to lay down and rot is a lot easier than to improve. The fantasy of being forever inadequate because of your physical characteristics is perfect, because it gives you an excuse to say you're unfixable, it lets you trap yourself in a very deep but comfortable hole where you're not happy, but you also don't have to suffer the pain of self-improvement. That's a big part of what the incel communtity, as it's known now, makes it so infectious and unescapable. The idea of a group of people that tell you "you're a reject, but you can be with other rejects here" is attractive, it lets you stay in that hole with other people, thinking it's better to isolate yourself and blame others for all your shortcomings than to self reflect and improve.
You are well informed and pleasant.
33:35 is dirty and baseless slander.    I had a telecaster.
When I was younger, I fell into this trap. I was so angry and to be honest if incel forums existed I would have likely joined one. I struggled with mental health and hated the anxiety women gave me and thus I blamed my anxieties on women. I was lucky to come to a conclusion that saved me from falling deeper into misogyny and hatred. You could call it the 'white pill' I guess. Sort of a kinder, gentler version of the black pill with an emphasis on peace with being single rather than loathing because of it. I soon threw that pill up when after focusing on myself for a few years I got asked out by a friend and after a lengthy period of dating, I realized that focusing on improving myself was the only way to be successful in dating. I still have anxiety and I am occasionally socially awkward and cringy, but now I take care of myself and I'm confident enough to ask girls out and go on dates.   Sorry if this is long, but I just wanted to share my journey, thanks for reading if you did.
You're beautiful. No need to shave the bones but of course go ahead if you like. But again, you're feminine and beautiful.
Another great (and necessary) video!  My brother (who's in his 30's) has been influenced by internet forums like these since the late 90's, and our dad shares a similar worldview without the vocab (misogyny, resentment, self-loathing, catastrophizing, all of it really)- despite being married.   Since I'm not a cis dude (enby here) I don't relate with them entirely, but I definitely have felt big waves of inadequacy, hopelessness, "cards stacked against me" etc when it comes to dating. So when the topic of incels comes up in some social justice circles, I feel conflicted. I find the incredible misogyny, rape apologism, and occasional violence abhorrent.... but I also relate to the loneliness, isolation, etc and that feeling "I've already done everything." I look at my brother's and father's lives and kind of understand why they feel the way they do, even though their beliefs about women (and themselves) deeply trouble me.  I find the sometimes-mean-spirited advice offered to incels like "anyone can find a date"/"just get a hobby"/"it's all about confidence"/etc kind of glib and, idk, I don't really buy it? Like part of me wonders if the advice-giver actually understands what that level of rejection feels like, or has taken into account actual trends in dating (and especially app/online dating?). For example - there have been surveys saying some 50% of cis LGBs wouldn't consider dating a trans person. I don't think my dating life is hopeless, and I believe there is (much) more to life than sex and romance, *but*. If someone's gonna give  me advice when I'm feeling low, I really need them to take the actual context of my life (and bias, rejection, isolation, harassment, etc) into consideration, you know?  Final thing... especially when I was younger (I first had internet access in the 90's), I found it really hard to distinguish between a healthy online space for marginalized folks that validated my identity (e.g. some trans forums), versus a self-harmy, sorta-culty, communal-spiral-into-darkness like the incel spaces you describe (or the pro-ana spaces others have brought up). Especially dicey in an online world where the anti-trans folks are constantly crowing that *all* trans affirming spaces are somehow culty, deluded, etc...
I was on "/tttt/" for a while, and got a lot of dense info, from general threads, and some people that genuinely wanted to help, but it only takes a few hours to see the toxic cancer circlejerk that it is... It's quite sad. You can find more support on /b/, ffs...
incel rubbish had me convinced i was aro ace for years because if that's what relationships are like, having one is basically immoral and not one to be immoral, i swore off the concept the only class i had in school that discussed relationships in any way was astronomy. fucking astronomy, where the teacher wouldn't goddamn shut up about her own sex life and giving people incredibly conservative relationship tips, frequently unasked for and shared with the entire class. i could have reported her but literally everyone else in the school loved her for this and i wasn't about to become a pariah for stopping the only teacher most people didn't hate. and her advice largely echoed incel advice. become someone you detest/who bores you, do horrible things. and of course this all echoed messages in entertainment.  actually i tell a lie, AP psychology touched on this. at least the topic belongs in that class. but the teacher still said "all women want is protection. all men want is youth and beauty. studies have shown this." and who can argue with the immutable iron truth of *rational* *** s c i e n t i s m ***  (incidentally, if the specific formulation of the above has made you realize "hey, aren't you the guy who wrote that real shitty incel-adjacent story in the form of a dictionary in form&tech," yes, that was me, and i am deeply sorry for making anyone endure that. i know "i am deeply sorry" sounds like a cookie cutter fake apology but this seriously haunts me. there are like 20 of you and probably none of you will read this comment, and even if you do you've probably put it out of your mind until now [how i envy you], but an apology needs to be made.)  i am always extremely doubtful when someone says they've always been good on something the general culture is bad on. which is probably not a good way to think because i always found the "schools are like prisons" argument meaningless because duhhhh of course they are, use your eyes, why does this need saying? and on a perhaps less childish note, i always thought patriotism was extremely harmful/willfully stupid and was afraid of cops though i couldn't articulate why.  but there is enough faux anti-authoritarianism in media and so much pushing for "america is free" from a young age that someone who is a little odd and less bound by social rituals (the same sort of person who might have trouble dating, say) to see through the ruse and call it out. however given how ubiquitous shitty patriarchal relationships are in media, and how everyone is compelled to make their relationship look a certain way to the outside world (not to mention how ubiquitous shitty patriarchal relationships are outside of media, too), i am especially skeptical of any guy who claims to have never been influenced in incel-ish ways. and i hate the implication that anyone who has these beliefs does so because they're just inherently bad people or whatever, when so much constant messaging has been pushing them in this direction.  i used to think that because i disliked the conventional venues for dating (restaurants, movie theaters, all the flavors of sportsball, dances) yet still experienced some sort of attraction that i was this unlovable irredeemable piece of crap because i didn't have any clue what i would replace them with. like i got nothing against a good meal out but it feels like how you would get to know a colleague or someone you intend to keep at arm's length, not someone you could be potentially getting very close to. then for a year or so i thought i was poly. but i stopped believing that because it didn't feel genuine and felt more like... greed? wanting no consequences? looking back it defo was that thing.  so all of this jumping around between ideologies has left me basically spiritually mangled. i cannot deny that i was a horrible person who said some horrible things. i am some manner of sex-repulsed but i cannot say why. there seems to be some level of disgust at fluids and organs and such, but so much of it is self-loathing like it's sinful to even imagine such a thing. and i think the whole thing of going on about mediocre men is not helping anyone's self loathing. i have literally thought that i am a bad ally because i long for some kind of closer-than-friendship connection while not being conventionally attractive. i literally hate what is considered conventionally attractive for men, i think it is boring and restrictive and ties can go fuck off. anyone who claims to like ties is a philosophical zombie and i stand by this stance.  so does this mean i am agender? it doesn't feel quite right. but part of that feels like i am abdicating responsibility, fleeing the man box without breaking it down. like i have some kind of duty to get rid of emotional repression and toxic masculinity and i can't do that from outside the box (though arguably, everyone who creates art/education/rhetoric/media/whatever has the duty to at least not support those things.) it also seems to be... saying that the box is correct, and the only problem is that i don't fit its description.?  there is also a metaphorical aspect that i have not seen anyone talk about really (though i only really read aven and even then, not so much anymore). like i dunno if it was because i was around an abnormally high number of kinksters or if this was just more patriarchy bullshit, but there was always this idea of "who is dominant in the relationship?" and like people were all "i'm progressive women can be dominant" but there was nary a mention of... yanno, equality? non-hierarchical interactions? so because of this i became a bit morally disgusted with sex because for the longest time the only people i heard discussing it deeper than "yes, it is a thing that happens" were all steeped in this dominance bullshit. and also, need i mention it, "telling it like it is" -style support of gender norms. x is always attractive, only x is attractive. all mention of sex became a reminder of my failure to live up. it was very tiring. college literature classes were a nightmare. and when x was aggression, it was even worse. like "all endorsement of sex is endorsement of aggression." to this day i have trouble separating the mere concept of sexuality from disgusting notions of domination and aggression.  also making fun of incels not taking care of themselves is pretty shitty because as someone who only recently realized yes, i am in fact depressed beyond what anyone should consider reasonable and not just lazy, it's really difficult to find the energy for even basic maintenance tasks like showering, let alone self-improvement, especially when self-improvement is so often framed only as "become an athlete and anyone else is subhuman," i find there is an infinite amount of exercise information out there about How To Get Really Strong For No Reason and very little for "yo i just wanna avoid heart disease." obviously this is only one dimension but the obsession with physicality in any place that won't jump to the conclusion of 'you are immoral scum' if you feel sad because you're lonely.  also "get some hobbies" hurts when almost everything in the world bores you, like you're defective and the small handful of things you still enjoy don't count. and "stop wanting the thing you want without offering any idea how to do that or anything else to fill the emotional void in yourself" can also go die. like if you have no actionable advice, just be kind enough to get someone to a therapist who will say the same thing but also be able to help them pursue such things. most of the places that help with this are progressive liberal at best (see r/menslib, it is pretty okay) and fail to point out how much of the sad, desolate existence incels fear and turn into a self-fulfilling prophecy is a result of capitalism, or at least fail to point it out consistently. instead they tend to deal in "existence is bad and lonely, that's just the way it is and nothing can fix it, suck it up, i am definitely not supporting toxic man up behaviors or whatever"  can i just say also that masochistic epistemology is a fantastic framing and hopefully now that a prominent lefty has noticed that people who are already in a bad place seek out insults, the entire concept of "saying men are trash will somehow magically only make you feel bad if you actually are trash" can go away. (the hand has been tipped. i am a horrible person.)  on the other hand we are all objectively fucked by climate change so you're wrong about pessimism being delusional, despair is literally the only factually correct emotion.       jesus fucking christ why did i write an autobiography in the comments section of contrapoints. i can tell people will hate me for this. (hits send anyway)
Is this male or female? Please help
Cats? Cats.
I guess you popped in my recommendations after Lindsay's latest video. And DAMMIT AM I HAPPY THAT YOU DID.  I can't stop watching your videos. Send help.   (I'm a very happy new subscriber)
Omg, first vid of yours I've seen. I like it, you are fab, gonna go find more!
Hey ladies, it's me Chad. Anyone looking to get cheated on hit me up.
You've put this is such an amazing way. And you're cool too <3
What is it with these people and skulls? o.o
If they're so disappointed with life now, imagine how it'll be after they're with a woman.
You lied. You said you did not intend to mock them but instead "understand them"....... Maybe the joke went over my head but I felt that if these people are genuinely churning out mass murderers faster than Marvel can make movies (as you said) then you have pretty good reason to try to understand them instead of mocking them.
Low to no sexual success doesn't make a guy an Incel(TM). Nor does it make him entitled or misogynist, or even jealous of "alphas", etc. I trace Incel(TM) origins to society's frankly arrogant attitude toward sexually unsuccessful - especially men. Mainstream society seems to think sexual success is the litmus for a guy deserving even the basics of respect or dignity.  It's a reverse 1950s: instead of society slut-shaming women, it's virgin-shaming men. I don't think that's what the Sexual Revolution was supposed to be all about. That revolution really lost its way over the past 50 years, and even longer ago than that.  If you're sick of Incels, then consider that mainstream society once again is irrationally shaming others due to some harmlessly different personal trait (the mainstream has a poor track record of sizing up a person's worth. Ask any black, GLBT, woman, Muslim, Jew, if you don't agree with me).
Alexa, ship Stacy and Becky.
This is really, really well-researched
im 15 btw
Who knew that the key to not being an incel and to actually have a long outstanding and fulfilling relationship with a woman is to genuinely be a nice person?  The crazy thing is in high school, I saw myself as the ugly fat Asian guy. Very little confidence and very shy. But what kept me going was genuinely being a nice person and within a year, I met my girlfriend (now wife).  So the key is having respect for others and having confidence. Clean yourself up and go make some friends. That's literally it. And if you refuse to do that, that's your problem, not the problem of women.
I'll be honest, this video was very interesting and illustrating, but I just clicked because of how much the thumbnail was S T Y L I N''''''''
GOD I REALLY HAVE BEEN SLEEPING ON UR CHANNEL...!! Two good friends recommended u to me yesterday and i absolutely loved this vid..! Im about to binge your channel now omg great work❤️❤️❤️
"I am not a woman. I am ultra masculine as you can see" is one of the most insecure things I've heard a man say.
This guy has the look in his eyes that says “FUCK I GUESS I CAN NEVER FLOURISH IN TRADITIONAL HIERARCHIES AS A HYPER FEMININE MAN SO AS A DEFENSE MECHANISM I’M GOING TO CREATE MY OWN HIERARCHY THAT OPPOSES THE TEMPERAMENTALLY CONSERVATIVE JUST SO I CAN SPITE GOD BECAUSE HE CREATED ME AS A BEING MADE TO SUFFER DUE TO MY INHERENT LACK OF MASCULINE PERSONALITY TRAITS”
12:15                   I am  U L T R A    M A S C U L I N E  BEHOLD MY BEARD! COULD A "WO-MAN" POSSESS SUCH A GLORIOUS DISPLAY OF MASCULINE FACIAL HAIR?? NAY. 'TIS PURELY A SCIENTIFIC FACT!  Roosh REALLY needs to realize his unwavering insecurity that he is not 100% masculine is the most unattractive, non-masculine thing about him!
"True forced loneliness"  Another version of the blackpill incel mess.
You just became my favorite youtube rn.
Tinder and OKCupid prove the 80/20 ratio as true in online dating
Second time commenting, and as someone struggling in a small way with some aspects of this, the support and common sense in (most) of these comment discussion is refreshing to see for once on this site.
This is irrelevant but I really like your voice. It's really soothing. Since you can put on personas and whatnot, it would be fun to listen to you read an audiobook or something similar
in for about 4 min before I realized this wasnt a joke
Resentment is a VERY comfy shade to lounge beneath at the peak of a midsummer’s daylight of truth. “Chadsplaining” is actually very good advice, if solutions were what incels wanted. What complaints, then, could they live for?
First time getting exposed to this channel.  Sub'd. Nothing but the sober truth here.
"LEAVE MY FUCKHOLE OUT OF THIS"
Someday, they will find someone that will let them sex them, and they will discover that sex will never be what they fetishise it to be. And that, too, will be women’s fault.  My first time encountering your videos, and I am hooked. Your costuming is fierce. :) Also nice to see another trans person out there. Myself, I was probably a 5 on the incel scale of attractiveness, yet never had an issue. Still don’t really. Minot mitch on sex anymore (my own grs, alas, had poor results. Great surgeon, bad luck and body. Turns out you can actually heal too fast.)   Yet even with that, I have a loving family, a loving girlfriend (there’s the secret, I’m not monogamous! Alas, openly and consensual. breaks their brains. fun fax to, my wife’s ‘type’ is likely in line with incel body types. shock!)   Anyway, good luck with everything. loving your channel. i too see many parallels between us and incel. but we’re usually get better. Also, we may be prone to instability, but we are usually .nice. while being batshit. ;)
Bones are white privilege, we must remove bones from humans.
Just discovered this channel and boom, instant subscriber. Really well written and presented!
Go off!!!!
You know what Contra? For a short amount of time I was drawn to the anti-sjw community....unti I could not bear incels. I am SO glad you made this video. I want more youtubers to make videos about this topic. Maybe even the anti-sjw ones, so that incels will see and reflect maybe on their behaviour
Thanks for this deep and insightful analysis  cuntrapointless.
This was really well presented. Great video!
You are a gorgeous goddess every day.  Also, well put together and well said points here.
You're so intelligent and beautiful <3
I apologise if I'm wrong but I can really relate to the whole "Masochistic epistemology" thing, and I found that what helped me was compliments that acknowledged parts of what I feared, your face does have some masculine features, but it's really not a bad thing you have the same vibe as like Ruby Rose and other women who are seen as attractive for blending feminine features with stronger masculine features, I've always found you really attractive but it's in a way that I'd call a "power move" and commands respect more than invite objectification, I'm genderfluid myself, I get the dysphoria and how it might prevent this but embracing masculine characteristics and subverting them into a "trim" for the femininity was really helpful for me.  tl;dr, you have a "boyish" masculinity in your face not a grown ass man face and it gives you an androgynous beauty, it does not make you look like a man in a dress, like a female presenting David Bowie.
Did he just end the video by suggesting people kill themselves by swimming out to sea in the nude? That insights violence.
back when I was still male, I often was so lonely that I pretended the wind was my girlfriend because at the worst of times, you can just go outside and the breeze can keep you company. I also wished on the International Space Station regularly.
The thing you said about the 'manly face' for trans-women who haven't yet (physically-don't know how else to put this and I apologize for the kind of shitty implications) transitioned is interesting to me, because it seems the entirety of the fashion industry heralds so-called androgynous faced women as the most beautiful.  And I would hypothesize an incredible number of men find these women to be the most beautiful.  Just seems contrary to their whole idea--even if their face is quite 'manly', would that even be an issue?
becky is hot, stacy is thot
Stacy, chad, etc. reminds me of a twisted version of the buzzfeed quiz that tries to find out what character from the tv show Friends you are
Contra great video but why do u sometimes say positive comments to trans people on reddit are just being politically correct and hugboxing. Whereas you want to "actually look good". It feels like you're impying its bad to look visibly trans and you only look "actually" good if you look cis. Positive comments towards non passing trans people from cis or trans people are not hugboxing, they're completely genuine but from people who are capable of seeing the beauty of visibly trans folk.   The transfems trapped on 4chan are so depressed bcz they think being visibly trans is inherently bad and so interpret positivity as fake hugboxing. most of them will never pass and so the only way they can get better is by realising you can still be pretty and happy with yourself and visibly trans.
WONDERFUL VIDEO. Will share and will watch again.
Where my Chad’s at? 😤😤
Don't know if this matters, but until you brought it up I had no idea you where trans. Subbed, great work.
i find it funny how incels expect women to have no standards in dating, yet incels expect women to be skinny (they tend to hate fat women), and virgins.
Your costumes are absolutely amazing, lights are perfection, set dressing, gorgeous. I love it.
Damn good research.
hi! new huge fan here. I was an incel as a teen male before the groups were a thing and it was bad and I can relate to them on a lot of levels. I've experienced dating apps from both sides talking to all genders, so I totally know what you mean and how it feels. interestingly, my roommate is a trans alt model and adult star with lots of friends and fans, but she doesn't believe anyone will ever love her because she's trans and people on dating apps and hookups at bars are all terrible. she creates her own reality by believing the lie she makes up for herself that's perpetuated through fetish sites and chasers. but I know that real guys can love real girls, even if they are trans. and trans me. are definitely people who often deal with the same issues even though they're often very attractive and very masculine. basically what I think I'm saying is: incels, trans people understand your plights, often from multiple angles, we're often lonely, depressed, and suicidal too. If you're looking to leave your violent self-loathing places, there are thousands of tran girls and boys out there who want the same things as you and who want love and sex, but often can't find it because we're a fetish to the general public. don't fetishize us and we could be a big part of the incel helpful solution. Also, hygiene is important no matter what kind of life you want. don't lose hope, find someone who needs love and see how it goes. there are thousands of wonderful trans people out there looking for happiness too.
the big question nobody is asking if the sea is sensual does this mean the Egyptian god of the moon Thoth is a Thot?
15:42 ...i laughed so hard
*Lets get down to business, to defeat, the* 24:48
The extreme misogyny these people have stupefy me, I mean, do they not have mothers, sisters, female relatives in general? let alone friends? Are they unable to think of women outside of a dating context? I mean, women are their fellow human beings with many of the same problems and aspirations they have. I just don't know how someone could get to that point.
I'm sorry but disenfranchising "incels" is how militant groups form. back in 2001, when 'Islamophobia' was rampant in the western world, and Zionist Israel with their stronger militaries and such were pushing Palestinians, Iranians, etc around like bullies do to smaller people, a similar thing is happening to incels, when the whole world starts declaring you as 'undesirable', be it through political realms (left/right/authoritarian/libertarian) and start pushing you out of proper societal discourse (disregarding whether you believe their beliefs are backwards or not) they get bolder, the rise of Incels explains the formations of PLO which led to Hamas, Hezbollah, ISIS, etc. the longer radlibs (I consider that from a personal viewpoint you may just be) ostracize them, the more militancy they gain from this. I would think a person who identifies as 'leftist' and 'anti-imperialist' would understand this point blank but it seems to fall on deaf ears. every. fucking, time.
this whole video is completely incomprehensible to me as an ace person.  no offense, but wtf is wrong with allo people?
Dating sites in general are just garbage and terrible and aren't conducive to healthy, satisfying relationships.  How to have a good relationship. Step 1: Make friends. Step 2: Stop worrying about having a relationship.
This channel is slowly becoming an ASMR channel
Your voice reminds me of the dark elves from Oblivion
What a great discovery this video was! Personally, I love the calm cadence of your voice, and props to the lighting choices. Your research and analysis were informational, well reasoned and argued, and your asides were wonderfully funny. Keep up the great work, I look forward to watching other videos by you.
I do feel somewhat bad for them, i very recently found out my ex has a new boyfriend. I thought i was over her and tired to get in tp a new relationship and it hasn't worked out. When i found out lets say i didn't take it well. So i know now the pain of rejection for my ex and other girls ive liked. Where they loss me is there sence of entitlement. I think thats the difference between me and them. When i message a girl on Instagram or talk to a girl i see out and about and they ignore me, im not gonna lie it hurts but i know they dont owe me a responses much less a relationship.
Great vid -- now I have the confidence to go out and  get my dick wet! **runs into ocean**
LFA MGTOW is a fairly attractive MGTOW guy. He's 6'1" and pretty muscular. https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCkS25_BA441NQMkbJG_k9Kg
Brilliant! I loved the appearance of Abigail and your reference back to the mouthfeel. I look forward to every video you make and they never disappoint. So glad you did the incel topic and the take on it relating it to TTTT was a unique take.
2/3 of our ancestors are women. In prehistoric times, 80% of women got to reproduce while only 40% of men got to reproduce. https://www.smithsonianmag.com/smart-news/through-history-more-women-have-reproduced-men-180952840/ https://psmag.com/environment/17-to-1-reproductive-success https://www.theguardian.com/science/2014/sep/24/women-men-dna-human-gene-pool
I have been watching your vids for a couple of years and I think this is my favorite you’ve ever done. I immediately shared with all of my friends in my discord chat and told them to watch you ASAP. There are so many striking things about this video. The journalism in it first off is top notch, unveiling incels better than anyone I’ve seen (and as a fellow connoisseur of internet bigotry I’ve researched them myself too). But more to the point I think your section on digital self harm is SO IMPORTANT. It’s not just incels or TTTT or even pro ana like people mention later in this thread - it’s EVERYWHERE. From people who label themselves as ‘antis’ on tumblr seeking out content they hate to yell at other people to persons who conversely interact with or stalk anti blogs to see if people are talking bad about them, their friends, or people ‘like them’ (ugh, so guilty!!!) You have those depression memes on tumblr, reddit, and twitter about how ugly and unlovable the people are. You have social media communities encouraging people to not recover because like ‘you’re mentally ill/disabled so your life is just going to suck.’ Better to let it fester! I have worked on digital self harm in therapy but I had no name for it until now. But now I understand why when I am lonely or stressed I find myself in that same position, checking blogs I hate to see if people are talking bad about me.
Very well done analysis yet again! Also, I'm here for Contra-Mom things. It really is a confidence issue and holding on to rejection.
This is the first time I've ever heard of you, or watched one of your videos. So you're not that famous yet. But this was hilarious, and honestly the best video I've seen explaining Incels, and also with added commentary of other Incel-type movements in other communities, which I appreciated.   It took me more than a moment to realize you were trans, and wouldn't have really guessed it until you said something about it. I thought you just had a sore throat or a cold, or maybe a smoker's voice. This video was highly entertaining, so thanks for that!   You also got me with "foppington's law", I immediately did a google search of it and found nothing. Is that a real thing, or did you just make it up? I feel stupid asking. :(
*Please more* of that Victorian Phrenologist character.
Still haven’t finished —might not.  I’m glad you referenced Peterson but if your intent was in fact to say that his advice is simple as to clean yourself up a bit etc., I don’t think you’ve spent any meaningful amount of time listening to or read Peterson’s work. To compare him to that dude who says “just go to parties bruh” says a lot about you perspectives.  I’m just one person and I already knew from prior videos that we don’t see eye to eye, or we don’t see the world in the same light, which is fine. I am however taken a bit back by a few other statements on top of this. Do what you will but I’m not interested in watching people who attempt to study and explain things, but fail to use sufficient effort or fail to be ...right... as in correct.  Others might feel the same as me though; it’s up to you to stay the same in that aspect, or to not.
Nice try normies
I'm hearing-impaired, and I just wanted to thank you for taking the time to type out a detailed transcription of the video for the closed-captioning. I don't always need it on YouTube, but I always notice when a content-maker goes out of their way to do so. You're the best!
I Haven’t made it to the end but there’s at least one mistake. The red pill concept didn’t come from the incel community, I believe it came from Cassie J who created a documentary that in turn removed her from the feminist community that she was more than an adamant supporter of prior to. She coined the term from the Matrix where Neo chose the red pill over the blue, daring to question his beliefs and try to understand the other side, a side that seemed foolish and not worth investigation, or generally to escape ignorance or simplicity.  The name of her documentary became a lightning rod to represent people who disagreed with the current cultural narratives, being extreme female empowerment (by the majority of perspectives I believe).  IE: It’s half political and half philosophical by nature or origin.  I don’t know where the black pill started because it was only a matter of time before the pill thing was milked to this point. It’s nihilism essentially, and blue pill is for normies and people who are feminist by default, trying to support equality.
What drives me crazy about this group is that most of the people I have seen calling themselves incels ARE NOT UNATTRACTIVE!!! I have told many this, they don't believe me. I have found myself attracted to some just by their picture. Idk, maybe I'm just a crazy roastie, but most are not as bad off as they think
Hi! I know you always advise ppl to not get all our info from the internet (& I really don’t..I read books too! 🤗) but just wanna say-with the boom in alt right/facist/videos on YouTube happening atm.. I’m so so so glad you exist. You are amazing, you are my voice of reason; a glittering mermaid that calls and pulls me up back into the light of reason through the murky dirge water..& you help me feel less alone against those same terrifying rage-fuelled opinion vlogs I constantly find myself coming across..(I know I shouldn’t watch-but I do that thing where I tell myself its for researching the enemy ..but it usually makes me feel weird and bad). So, yeh.. I think you’re awesome ♥️♥️♥️
“...and Chadpreet” CHADPEEEEET! YO I’M DEAD 💀💀💀 🤣😂 😭
I love the satire here.
Ultra masculine baker... Tonio Trussardi from JoJo's bizarre adventure?
First time watcher of this channel. Very good video. Good work!
I sympathize with men who struggle with loneliness, sexual frustration and a lack of intamacy in their lives but I don't sympthaize with the hateful online movement.
Excellent video. 10 points to Gryffindor!
The end of this video reminds of your alpha male video (same background). Now I have to watch that one.
Ahhh, Contra. This is one of your best videos to date; it strikes just the right balance between shock, gut-busting humor, information, and emotion that your videos sometimes get. I think the last one I found to be this thoroughly-well-put-together was your exposé on TheGoldenOne, one of your all-time greats which I’m sure still gets you a steady stream of subscribers.  Also holy shit your makeup is on point, you look just like one of my (very, very feminine) crushes, its uncanny and I could just look at that face all day *squees internally* ^Aand you’re probably going to disregard that as trying to make you feel better but it was seriously distracting me from the moment you were on screen
People do that at least in part because finding disparaging comments validates their insecurity
Tolkien is probably having an erection in his grave. Unless he was cremated. Was he cremated? I have no idea and I don't really care actually.
As a straight dude, the first time I saw the Elliott Rodger vid, I immediately thought to myself "wtf dude he's at least two steps above average in terms of looks."
'digital self-harm' omg finally there is a word for the shit I had been doing to myself for ages other than that: great video!!!
Damn kids these days. Compensating for the lack of culture with nihilistic cults. If only they had been properly nurtured and had values to live for
I'm just in love with the term "masochistic epistemology". What a succinct way to put this phenomenon. I think it just comes from the simple fact that there is less incentive to lie in an insult to someone than in a compliment. A compliment can come from a place of self-inflating virtue-signaling (I think of people calling someone with frankly hideous birth defects "gorgeous" in a way I cannot imagine doesn't feel condescending, as well as the "hun" phenomenon) or even the good intention of bringing a smile to someone's face, even if you don't believe in whatever you're saying. An insult, on the other hand, only works if it's honest to some degree, or you perceive it to be honest. It just doesn't work that well to call someone who is clearly a healthy weight fat to try and insult them. Therefore, when looking at what people are saying about you, we think of insults as inherently more honest than compliments, and disregard compliments, even if they're true.  And for the record: I really do honest to god think you're super attractive.
I don't often comment on videos but I just have to say your makeup looks amazing!! I can't even imagine how long that must have taken!!! I keept thinking it trough out the entire video
A transvestite man goes on Tinder and tries to make that an example of "women's experience on Tinder".
A lot of this sounds like the mental health version of l'appel du vide
Natalie is the bigot whisperer.
is being hot for natalie wynn gay?
I should stop pressing the 'like' button before I've even watched a video. I know I'll press that button anyways eventually. It just feels too impulsive when I press it early. Maybe I should be more impulsive like that, though. Maybe I'll forget to press the button afterwards, or I'll think about all the pros and cons of pressing it for so long that the button loses its appeal.
I'm a 34 year old ForeverAlone. We distinguish ourselves from incels in 2 ways. The first is found in our labels. Incels define themselves on their lack of sexual activity. For ForeverAlones, lack of sex is secondary to the persistent, oppressive reality of being alone, permanently. Second, Incels are primarily angry and hateful, and their worldview reflects it.  ForeverAlones are primarily simply sad, and again, our worldviews end up reflecting it. ForeverAlones aren't misogynist or hateful. For us, there's just Normies and Foreveralones. No chads or staceys, or racism. Just mind crushing loneliness.
Every time I watch your videos I am stunned by how feminine and beautiful you look, especially as I was watching your vids before you started transitioning. I honestly don't think you need any work done, you are killing it <3
Loved this. You’re so smart.
this is a weird question but what do incels think of trans people? like most guys like that hate trans women but what about trans men and enbies?
i would totally date you, Natalie, but i'm afraid that my lack of charm and mediocre looks won't compete with the 2,500+ people who want you. i think i shouldn't even bother, i'm barely above the poverty line, i don't drive, and i don't have any strong future plans. you deserve someone who has their life together, but i swear, if i wasn't such a loser, i would totally take you for coffee or something, maybe a movie.
So, do you have a penis?
A quick thank you to god that I have yet to stoop low enough to stand in front of a camera and justify my baking bread by saying "I am ultra masculine" with a straight face
It's really hard to make this stupid bullshit funny.
I am hydrosexual now.
this wasn't bad actually
https://www.reddit.com/r/Braincels/comments/9880dw/contrapoints_garbage_debunked_point_by_point/  I'll just leave this here for your attention.
Why is 4chan a man thing?  Im a teenage girl and i go there for my dose of shittalking and cringe (reddit just didnt do enough for me anymore.) I have been. Desensistized... Probably a bit too much
w-why did this get recommended to me
i watched this video for   12 minutes because u reminded me of someone and then it hit me u look like mia from californicaation. idc about incels or any of that shit, i'm gonna go now and get validated by all the girls that would love to fuck me.hoshimota is out. bye
Being red pilled is nazi code for believing in a jewish/marxist/leftist/feminist conspiracy that supposedly works against straight, white males to destroy western civilization. It's kind of the nazi version of "woke" and it's basically a gateway to fascism.  I think it's important to mention how these manosphere communities are used to normalize far right rhetoric and are fertile ground for far right recruitment. That's really the point of cultivating this world view.   The red pill has also infected the skeptic/atheist community, which used to be about pwning creationists and laughing at ridiculous things religious people say, and now it's about "exposing" feminists and cultural marxist conspiracies.
...Wait, that was 35 minutes? Didn't even feel like it, so engrossed it felt like 15.
Here I was hoping you were a lesbian. Gorgeous woman!
Bork
amazing. this is absolutely my favorite of your videos so far
wat is this
Are you a tranny?
one of your best videos, love the humour and production value as always. but mainly you're just a decent, compassionate and articulate person, keep up the good work dark mother
I was with you until rock and roll is dead.  It's not dead i say as i clutch to what rock bands we have left that aren't filled with octogenarians
One of my favorite youtubers, even though you're a commie
Eyyyy I'm also a pre-op transwoman who feels bad looking at these posts <3
Great, was just about to go to the pub for a roast lunch, now I'll have to eat blindfolded lest I be reminded of vulvas
I mean, a couple thoughts. 1. If women don't want to receive messages like that, then they need to not be the only kind of messages that get responses 2. Incels may be normal looking dudes, but are told they're not by other incels ... and by women. That's the whole problem. I remember when I used to actually give a shit and try I got women telling me I "looked" like a rapist, whatever that means, I was accused of beating women by a complete stranger because I "looked like the kind of guy who did", and women i was friends with would say stuff like the thought of me in a relationship was gross and they didnt want to think about that. Specifically, I was at a party one time and this chick I had never spoken to before interrupted a conversation I was having to let me know that I was creepy. That's what it's like for them. It's not like it just comes out of nowhere and they just wake up one day and say "you know What? I'm gonna be an incel from now on" you just kinda skipped over the part where incels actually can't get dates because of their looks. This isn't behaviour that people are born with. It's learned.
Yeah thanks for reminding me our Minnesota summer thunderstorm game is completely off point this year and totally f'ing with my ability to get some primal carnal satisfaction while I'm trying to deal with (and get better at) being bad at women and relationships in general.  What I'm trying to say is a good thunderstorm might well reignite some of that CHAD in me but here it's just mostly been hot and humid and now we have an overcast of Canadian wildfires.
It's basically /tttt/ and /incel/ are self inflicted porn
Contra Points, i'm sorry that we don't have a active physical white genocide starting with you.
Nice new Contraception vedoi
Contra Points you are an inferior white male.
The 20/80 rules is based of real data tho, it's not unknown, or something the incels made up. While I do also think personalty count for something, which the 20/80 do not account for or care about, it's also now what it's trying to explain.
What if I believe that white males have been made inferior by marxist policy?
If someone has white blood cells does that make them a Nazi?
If a male has white bones is that white male supremacy?
I find incels not just depressing, but I also get a 'there but the grace of god' vibe from them. I had a REALLY bad run when it came to dating in my 20s, to the point of ridiculousness - like, me and this girl and who I never got a chance to see because we were always busy and didn't live nearby had a chance to hook up and my FUCKING CAR BROKE DOWN, getting a rare tropical disease that gave me two years of chronic fatigue, everyone I did get on a date with was crazy or stood me up, etc. It made me feel like I was deficient in some way and I was already insecure about being a little overweight, but at that stage I knew nothing about incel culture. I DID adopt some of the ideas of PUA culture and red-pill shit off the back of GamerGate, but I've left that behind me.  If I had found the incels, I worry it would have just sucked me in and taken me over. The last thing I needed was more negative reinforcement, but without realising it I was seeking it out at the time, and there was a massive reservoir of it out there waiting for me. Somehow I dodged the bullet and I'm really grateful I did. It's nice to be able to like yourself.
If you aren't having a relationship with women, why would you care?
If a male has white teeth is that white male privilege?
You do know that the UFC's ultra black Chad Welterweight champion's name is Tyron? The Incels named their black Chad perfectly. Tyron is a god among men. All heil king bro!
18:47 i am un-woke. help explain please?
I guess I technically fit the definition of an incel. I’ve never had sex, never been in a relationship at all, and my fist kiss was when I was 18. I never blamed women for how miserable and alone I was, bc everyone should have the freedom to fuck who they want. And if they don’t want me, that’s just nature filtering out my bad genetics. That’s how natural selection works. I try to focus on my career and hobbies, but truthfully, I identify with the pain of the incels. The truth is, not everyone will be loved. That’s how it’s always been, and that’s probably how it always will be. It’s okay to be saddened by this, but it’s not okay to blame others for this. It’s not women’s fault for not fucking You, it’s not your fault for being ugly, it’s just bad luck.
I'm pretty sure incels were raised in a feminist environment and/or by single mothers.  That said, feminism did make women shittier. Why? Because women are now a protected class, protected from criticism and consequences. You're no longer allowed to criticize any of them for any immoral, irrational, crazy, obscene, irresponsible behavior they might have. They are protected from dealing with the consequences of those as well. You might have a woman who's unhinged and incompetent in your company wreaking havok and any criticism of her behavior will be treated as misogyny and discrimination and who ever spoke up is gonna lose his job and have a discrimination lawsuit to deal with. You can have a crazy promiscuous woman who'll just sleep around and swap boyfriends every five seconds run off with their money and there's a whole system of safety nets in place for any of the kids born from that woman. The list goes on but my point is that women no longer have the opportunity to learn from their mistakes. They can just go about their lives and do whatever they want, however they want and never face any of the consequences. They can be toddlers for ever and never have to clean their own mess and have an army of white knights telling them everyday on instagram how amazingly beautiful and kind they are no matter what they look like or how they treat others. There isn't any social pressure on women to do good anymore, they can be as evil as they want, they're women.   Men have to work hard on their social skills, polish their personality, be physically and mentally healthy, learn a skill so they can make money, be responsible, civilized, intelligent and charming to be seen as valuable and there's a lot of non written rules they have to abide to to be approved by women and by society as whole. Women on the other hand can just be socially awkward, have no personality whatsoever, be physically and mentally unhealthy, be incompetent, in debt, be antisocial screaming banshees, dumb and repulsive and they'll still manage to land a partner and have kids.  Personally I've never been to incel forums because I can come up with my own edgy shit. My hope is that these guys are just learning to stand up for themselves since they've been told never to be angry, to always be nice and to never defend themselves as I'm pretty sure it's what happened.  By personal experience none of the tricks we give incels worked for me. It always happened at times where I had nothing going on in my life, I hadn't showered for a day or two and I was wearing rags with holes in it. (Crust punks have sex right?) Whenever I consciously try to approach a girl, it fails. I only got dates when one of them texted me "I WANT TO SEEEEE YOUUUUUUUU!~<3" and when sex happened it was rarely a conscious decision on my part. I think I've been raped more than I actually had sex tbh. That said I still think dating is a mine field where if you blink the wrong way, you suddenly become an unattractive loser in her eyes and she's gonna tell all of her female friends how much of a pathetic loser you are on the way home even if everything seemed fine a millisecond ago. Our brains are very good at selectively suppressing information and denial so I'm gonna do that for sex and dating until I get lucky again and think "What the?! Oh shit now I remember sex is actually a thing."
Im a gay man and I know more than 25 men who like Milo Yiannopolous.. All gay men I know love him.... Except the lefties, who only love stalin and Che and other homophobes.. Cause they're DUMB
This reminds me of a WHTH post I saw last month, and the comment discussion. Yes, incels need help, and we've tried to help them, we can't because they refuse to be helped. Even the smallest, simplest act that could improve their lives even in the slightest is rejected out of hand.  http://www.wehuntedthemammoth.com/2018/07/25/are-we-being-too-mean-to-incels-who-laugh-at-murdered-ten-year-olds-one-concerned-ex-sjw-says-yes/comment-page-1/
No one's going to help the incel community. Your sympathy towards incels does nothing for them. They are a very small minority of young men that society as a whole has collectively decided to beat down, because they're worthless to society as a whole. Take note of this phenomenon for the next time your political salesman tries to sell you the idea of a just world.
Next time: War
Incels _need_ to be told they're undesirable physically because otherwise, they'd have to admit what huge pieces of shit they are.
Algorithm
Thanks! keep it up, i love your work :) feel hugged!
Roosh must be really insecure... good on him for baking, but dude if you read this... you don't need to make excuses. You're making good food and everyone needs to eat. I hope you make sandwiches for yourself too without having to justify it in some deformed way.
Thanks for outlining how fucking AMAZING INCELS ARE!
oly is boner fule
Pre-op > Post-op Also, isn't blue pill viagra? I think we've all got this goatseewards.
Who's the bloke with the sexy voice and is he looking for a hair wooly Cthulhu switch bi
I can't take your voice seriously. Thanks for not mocking them at least
Ram Bow?  Jesus fuck.
I'd much rather have a Becky than a Stacy.
I knew incels were sad and lame but fuck, they're almost more sad than I could ever imagine them being.
Oddly I have feelings of suicide partly due to government and the Brexit and partly I was banned from twitter which is a major loss of social support, really I don't normally with pain and suffering on others but I do hope twitter dies in a burning pit. But also I recognise that Twitter is a patch to cover the loneliness of a society that makes people working longer hours and punishments for being single in the UK is paying just 25% less than a couple with children in local taxes the paranoia and hatred of drunkenness make people feel isolated along with neo puritanism that is making single people feel guilt for being single but not creating systems to help people meet
OMG YAS NEW CONTRAPOINTS
This video is on point on so many levels and I also love the fabulous backdrops and outfits. Glad to have stumbled across your channel ♥
I felt really weird when I put this video on in front of my boyfriend and blurted out "omg she keeps getting hotter"  Then I got to the end of the video and felt like some hivemind hugbox  Oh no
"Chads with fuckable skulls" .... Yes..... Yes. *seeks out Chads to skull-fuck, straight or not* <3
Just discovered your channel.  You do an excellent job in your analyses.  I love how you actually pointed out the normalcy of the incel mindset while simultaneously providing the most viable strategy to break away from it.  I plan on watching your catalog over the next few weeks.
Can you Juul during these vids?
omfg this starts out hilarious and ends in a deep psychological excursion. Contra please marry me. I would say the same thing on tttt or whatever
And may I say, you have no problem with your brow ridge, and are quite beautiful..
This video is fantastically made, incredible work
You are my  favorite channel on YouTube. Never go  away.
Awesome video, pls keep on doing thiss
i don't want to get rid of my dick tho
Absolutely love your video!
It's as if the Incels didn't actually know any women...
i don't like you because you're clearly rich.
Sea accepts us all. Sea is our home, our love, our life.  JOIN US IN THE DEPTHS.
it's terrifying to me how a person's mind can twist and internalize bad experiences like that to the point where your entire worldview could shift into one where women are evil and inhuman, and you will never find love and be satisfied with yourself.
Subbed at "bread scientist"
Can someone please TLDR this video? Don't feel like listening to that raspy HRT laden voice. You shouldn't be talking about this subject you gender bender
I'm 14min in and I gotta say this makes me feel more than a little uncomfortable. I mean for starters I don't know how you couldn't feel uncomfortable seeing such naked hatred for women (or any group of humans for that matter). Many of these things are so implausible on the face of it that they would be laughable if you didn't see a bunch of depressed and I guess probably at least somewhat angry guys all taking it very seriously. However there is another big reason I'm uncomfortable too - seeing so much of myself in what is being described.  Not the hate, or the blaming of women or others in general, but the fatalism and hopelessness. at 14:02 there's a series of thoughts displayed that an incel might go through. I've been through 1-5, and then jumped to 10 (sort of). While I have to believe that I wouldn't ever fall into this blaming of women or others, seeing a path laid out like that so close to my own is somewhat scary.
This is true art.  As a question, Does the negative connotation of Hon  extend to Honey as well? I have a few Female trans friends and I had never realized it to be an intrinsically negative context.
This is the first video I’ve seen of yours and it is truly a work of art. Thank you.
Contra, you've got a great face. Don't go Michael Jackson on it. Don't try to follow clichés of femininity. If I were to post my picture on an trans forum, people would probably tell me that I couldn't pull it of as a woman because my skull is too big, my jaw too broad, my hands too big, my shoulders too broad tc. But I was born a woman. LOL.  Women can be big boned. And I still consider myself to be beautiful. I wear my hair long or pinned up so my head won't seem so big, I like my jaw because it tells idiot asshole guys to not fuck with me, and I love my big hands and broad shoulders because unlike other women I can lift and carry really heavy things easily. I'm also rather tall. I'm still a "naturally born woman". We come in lots of variety after all.  You're one of us. Compared to me you're a real looker, which is cool if that's what you want to be. If you want to be less eye-catching, then that's okay too. Some women are like me and don't like dressing up. I never wear makeup, I hate the feel on my skin. But it's totally fine if women love their makeup.  Be yourself. Don't try to fit a cliché. Don't compare yourself to others. You're not others. You're you. And you seem to be a really cool clever woman. Keep being that! :)
The parts about the sea are a titanic mood.
Hmm. There is some truth in red pill theory. At least when referring to the top 10% of women. Especially in the trans community, its even more out in the open there.
I'm a lesbian so this is purely theoretical BUT: god it's impossible to see why a woman would rather fuck a guy who never heard a song in his life and apparently only thinks about pussy than a guy who spends his time fantasising about misogynistic torture on the internet and thinking going to the gym makes up for their personality that's as hollow as an empty barn
love ya bravo, another good episode
first video i've ever watched by you - instant subscriber!
What an interesting and intelligent concepts. Thanks for the big think, CP.
You _are_ a gorgeous goddess. But unfortunately I'm a "volcel", because women are more trouble than they're worth.
b-but M E R E M I L L I M E T E R S O F B O N E  edit: BREAD SCIENCE
So Awesome!!!
"VOLCEL IF YOU WOULDNT" that was so good, i audibly gasped
I love your nose, its sooo cute.
this was amazing. really broke down the incel culture you see popping up all over reddit.
great video but i dont think thats what redpilled means
Hey to be fair it is far easier to kill people than to make movies.
Alright, I am sold. Subbed. Thanks for making me feel better about the fact incels exist.
hey zoë blade music woo!!
I am also into cats..
Hey, I just want to say, you pass VERY well.  Edit: OH SHIT, I posted this, like, a 4th of the way through the vid.
Not sure how this weird corner of youtube has been hiding from me.. but this documentary style of covering retardation is fucking addicting.  Thanks for wading through that mess and making sense of it. I used to call this shit retarded out of ignorance, now I can confidently call it retarded with facts.
Loved the video. (Side note though: skeletons kinda creep me out lol)
Good video. Some quick points tho many of the terms mentioned such as chad and Stacy existed before incel culture and outside of it. Just wanted to mention that so if anyone hears it in a different context they don’t immediately assume incel (although that very well could be the case). And one more thing, I do agree with the incel general black pill sentiments of hopelessness and loss but not based on an inability to find meaningful sexual relations (although that hasn’t been going great either lmao). But yeah would have liked to see a more theoretical refutation of both the philosophical and biological assertions of incel culture. However, I also understand sometimes such degrading ideologies don’t deserve such effort or acknowledgement. Love the videos tho and big fan.
The part about them living in cartoon world is something I've been saying for a while and I'm glad you mentioned it. It's like they live in a bad stand up comedy version of the world where everything happens based on stereotypes and nobody actually chooses to do anything. They KNOW that cynical gender and race and attractiveness stereotypes are all true just like we KNOW that Tom's face will look like a pan after Jerry hits him with one.
This is an incredible video. I've never really understood what incel was but this was so well thought out, well-structured and articulate.
For anyone interested about learning how the incel community was born and how it became what it is today, look up Reply All's podcast episode on Incels they talk to Alana the bisexual woman who first coined the term that natalie mentioned!
This video was so so well made. It was organized, entertaining and informative. First vid i've seen on the channel and insta-subbed. Also your makeup looks gorgeous.
every incel should be shot in the head
Why does a woman have to be a former man in order to have genuine sympathy for Men?
oh god as soon as i got to the "because your skeleton is too small" i laughed so hard i choked on my own hair
I wonder if they would still exist if prostitution was legalized? i mean surely that would atleast help them right?
I love your honesty.
My asexual ass didn't need that intro
"Hey you, with the fuckable wrists"
But contra arnt you just a left wing incel? Or are you a stacey?
For what it's worth, while we might not agree on everything, this is a well made video and I ended up watching the whole thing.  There were even moments where I had to pause and think deeply about my life and beliefs.  I was actually thinking to myself, "I'm too far gone.  I can't unredpill myself."  And then that's the very next thing you said.  It's true.  I'm too far gone.  Redpills/blackpills really are like Pandora's box.  This comment is heavily edited.  At first I left a comment attacking you, I made a trans joke, and I basically hated you.  But I was compelled to keep watching because the quality of video was pretty good, and I had to delete my comment and change it to this.  I even changed my dislike to a like.
So they secretly  like/attracted to alpha males.. gay or trans tendicies..
This video was... (speaks in tongues) but then it was CAPTIONED too!? *ascends into a higher dimension*
I have nothing to add other than yet another well done video. This was fantastic!
A  N  A  L 31:19
You are so so so so brilliant.
One of the best videos I have seen in a long time. A talented orator and an empathetic study on humanity.
I still disklike this channel for what you said about Papi Peterson, even though you had a few good arguments most of them are not relevant. FUUUUUUCK YOU!!!!! (_)_)::::::::::::::::::::::D~~~~
no offense but is the person talking a tranny?. And trying to make virgins out to be the weirdos?.. ok...
In Mexico they say "words kill looks, money kills words".
Third observation: I see a lot of connection between incel culture, the TTTT culture you describe, and other more general conspiracy theory cults, a la Alex Jones.  Specialized vocab; secret knowledge; complex, involved yarn networks on cork boards that connect trivial semi-facts into catastrophizing narratives.  As a species, we desperately want an ironclad theory of our social world, because even if it's awful, at least it's certain. And nothing is more terrifying than uncertainty, which is why each of these cults furiously attacks anyone who dares try to penetrate it with doubt or reason. There's a book here and you should write it Natalie.
Lol! Loved it
You have a wicked sense of humor
this video rocks
AH! I'm so happy I found this channel. You're so freaking charming and intelligent and funny and make interesting content ahhh! There's something about your voice and mannerisms that just commands the space you're taking up and I love it. (Also, I'm apart of inbetwix erotic sea and you totally nailed all the trans jokes.) Excuse me while I go binge your videos :)
Something I believe that factors in to "The truth is what hurts" is the desire for certainty.  It is hard too impossible to spin every experience into a positive one, to make it conform to an optimistic ideology.  On the other hand, it's very easy to spin every good experience into a bad one.  Talked to someone? They're just being polite  Got a date? It's just pity  Date went well? The relationship is now a day closer to ending.  And so on. Even if it's dismal and depressing it gives people certainty. The world isn't chaotic, it's just terrible.
A skull tapping ASMR video would be great. I got tingles from that bit.
Fehm-oids not feem-oids  :)  Sometimes also referred to as fembots, for the ideology that their sole purpose is to be offspring producing obedient robots.
the awakening
I think this was very well done. Remarkably so. It makes me wonder how much time and thought goes into all of this.
Always entertaining even though I probably disagree with you on MANY things.
But will women really date-stay with a 5'7" man? It seems to me that the rejectiong they felt at some point was/is real..
Best. Human. Ever.    A little less treble in her voice and I could listen to more than 2 videos in a row a day....
I am just admiring your amazing set and props!
This video came up in my suggestions and now I'm suddenly in love with you and your sense of humor 😍
I appreciate your perspective on things.
Holy fuck i have to say it. But damn how hot youre on with this outfit/makeup combo
Watching this again and realizing that blackpill incel culture is a kind of secular, sexual Calvinism.  Again, like you point out: a cult of death.
HEY ROOSH! FUCKING SHAVE! YOU LOOK LIKE YOU ARE PLANNING AN ATTACK ON A WESTERN TARGET FOR THE GLORY OF ALLAH!
Always insightful, always thought provoking.
god i love your voice. how did you do it?
This is like a weird religion. WTF
Imagine fucking a rainstorm
I love you
Welp, now I kinda feel bad about some of these guys. I say some, because fuck the ones who couldn't hold back their murderous rampages. There's no excuse for murdering people.
I think I watched this video wrong All I got from it was bread scientist,  a possible Carrie reference, rock n roll is dead and find sexual pleasure in weather? Ok but seriously, good video.
Thank you for the ASMR  - Sincerely, Lesbians
I disagree with most of the stuff you say, but this was a really good explanation of this sad subculture. It’s the first time I’ve seen a video about them that was not just pure ridicule and jokes.
Came to disagree. Agreed.
I love you.
4:40 "Thinks guys like the natural look" I actually do though :(
*F Ē M O I D*
Social media causes societal stagnation. People need to get out more. Incels aren't all evil, but a lot of this has to do with the internet being everywhere and the amount of echo chambers causing people to give up.
Needs more ocean.
Here for the #VolcelIfYouWouldnt t shirt
Great video, you hit a lot of the main points of the incel community and I hope a lot of them can see this and realise how ridiculous it is. Also not that it matters but I'd just thought I'd let you know until you mentioned being trans I actually had absolutely no idea you were.
wouldn’t it be funny if woman were real
The 80/20 rule probably stems from an old OKCupid blogpost that looked at how men and women see each other and found that the women of the site were extremely critical of physical appearance in their ratings. While the male ratings of women tended follow a standard bellcurve the women rated only 20% of men more attractive than average.  The incel thing hits close to home for me. Fur much of my 20s I struggled with a lot of the same issues. Probably 1-5 of that catastrophizing list. I actively worked against blaming women for problems I thought were my own. Being on the spectrum gave me the idea I was romantically doomed and was incredibly shy and felt I wasn't particularly attractive. I felt society was incredibly unfair putting the risk of rejection seemingly on the shoulders on men alone. And kind of hoped I would be found.  Eventually I realized that whenever I did get the courage to ask a woman out my success rate in them agreeing to at least a date was incredibly high. So I put myself out there basically one time on a dating site, messaged 4 girls, 3 got back to me, 2 had conversations, and 1 I have been dating for the last 7 years.  I used to think I'd be so much more a wonderful caring boyfriend than the schmucks I see women date. I now realize, though, I'm a shit boyfriend who is stubborn and emotionally unavailable. I'm glad she puts up with me. :P
Great video and channel. Subscribe
This is the coolest channel of all time
God bless Olly for the voice overs
I’m extremely happy this is the first vid I’ve seen by you, cause this is amazing. All of this, from Tinder to discussion on dysphoria, to deep diving into Incels, the group I’ve been terrified of for ages, for a multitude of reason. Definitely gonna binge your stuff over the next week or so, cause this is great. Also do you know of Nyx Fears videos? Cause she’s also dealing with gender issues and making super dope content too. Plus she’s got a cool Skelton friend!
Holy shit!  Your Victorian make up is fucking amazing!
The most baffling part of incels for me is their assertion that short dudes cannot possibly get laid.  The two guys I knew who got laid the most were like 5'10'' and 5'7''.
I always get about 15 minutes into one of these videos and have a post of "Well yeah...but" and then my post gets answered usually around the 20 minute mark...
I thought you were kidding about "wristcels."
I never wanted to know basically anything about the incel community, but this video was insightful and the commentary as a trans woman specifically was truly eye opening. I laughed. I learned. Thank you for this video.
The ocean is my true love. I may be Asexual but you have reminded me of my unbridled lust for the sea.
Post your Celfies here.
im not even finished with the video, but i'm liking it a lot. it always scares me, honestly, learning about these communities. what's so frustrating is that of course it's normal to be afraid one might never find intimacy or "true love". i'm a woman, and that's a real fear, of course tying in with the general worry of being alone and disliked. and the existence of the "incel" community as it exists today discourages these men from truly investigating their feelings and possibly seeking therapy or at least a healthier way to let out their worries, leading them instead to take the (apparently) easy route of shifting blame to the outside world and resigning themselves to hopelessness. i'd almost feel sad for them if that worldview didn't lead them to such violently misogynist views (and, sometimes, actions)...
Thanks Contrapoints... This video will help many people maybe start seeing the light of life and not subject themselves to this dark black pill shit.
so, this is the first video of yours I've seen I instantly loved it. just wanted to say that.
"At least these pricks care enough about my pussy to be an asshole about my dick!" Poetry.
This is easily the best video on incels I've come across. Such a strange phenomenon, but I suppose it's one of the side effects of people spending more and more of their time in digital spaces, such that communities can form around ideas that previously would have had a hard time finding any traction.
Great video. Love your stuff.
step 1:  type in, escorts and your area step 2: find an escort you think is hot step 3:  schedule a time to meet escort step 4: follow rules, be nice and proceed to have intercourse with escort step 5: congrats you just had sex
Gold at 20:55
This was incredibly well done.
femoids lmfao
Who would be harder to reason with an incel or a member of cult 45?
fantastic
You are starting to sound like a dude again, time to fill your ass with more progesterone I guess
Fucking Incels....wait was that an oxymoron?
Personally I can say that when I've had bad internet habits, they've gone away by having productive stress in my life, such as a school semester starting up and getting bogged down with work. Maybe what could help people like this would be purposely seeking out stress, such as by taking two jobs, so that they are working towards something (money) and occupying their time, so they don't spend it on /r/braincels and the like.
i mean yeah im a trans guy and when it comes to relationships i've been feeling really shitty because i'm supposed to be the pursuer now and idk how to do that? and the way dating works is so weird and convoluted and i wish i could just sit back and let other ppl be the aggressor but i'm having to relearn how to date.. i understand the frustration but like... it's a culture men created yknow
And here I've always admired slender wrists on men. Honestly, I've noticed startling similarities to eating disorder communities in how many of these incels talk, seems like they're suffering from body dysphoria .
I gotta say, I'm morbidly fascinated by this subculture, but this video is by far the best video on them. You're both very funny and extremely empathetic and revealing. I don't think I've ever heard a better explanation for the phenomenon and the mindset of those in it. This is the first video of yours I've watched, but I'm definitely a comitted fan. Thanks for doing the Lords work.
Your best work yet Contra!!! I love your work <3
Self help books next. $cholar.
Big brother big sister club 2.O.  help two separate communities that have no obvious connection.
*laughs* *in* *gay*
Great video. Really good analysis of these lonely sad people.
What a fantastic introduction to this channel... 😂 Eye-opening, funny, and I absolutely love your aesthetic 💕
I like this channel. I did not expect to, but I do. Also, amazing video. It calms me down to be able to understand incels a bit more and feel less afraid of men in general.
loved when you cut to that shot of tiffany when you said the word "monster", gave me chills, made me feel like i was being let in on secret nuances and shit. hopefully we'll see more tiffany in the future? what an interesting character
So, y'know good ol' Doktor Pederson has advocated that the state should provide incels w/ wives?  To, y'know, keep them from murdering people?  'Cuz, like, that should be the state's responsibility?  To supply lonely, hateful guys w/ women's bodies to use sexually?  Yeah.  Maybe call them "Joy Provisions" or something?  Kind'a surprised that didn't come up...
man, i really was hoping that "roastie" was going to be a type of sandwich
Imagine a table with 10 oranges on it.  One is green on one side, a couple look maybe a bit dry, but ultimately you can't tell which is juicy sweet inside and which is gross and pithy.  There are nine other people and if you choose an orange no one else chose, you get to eat it.  Now imagine it's 10,000 oranges and you have no idea how many other people are in your silent auction.  Dating and mating used to be finite, just the people in your immediate community playing the ultimate game of musical chairs.  Lets not be surprised that it's as shitty and ego-damaging as it is for EVERYONE in the presence of choice overload.  We accidentally f*cked ourselves with our technology.   Good on ya' human race!  Now add to that anonymous unfettered access to any and all kinds of pornography you could ever conceive of and you get exactly the kind of FOMO that incels are made of.
What are your preferred pronouns?
That video was pretty frickin great. Very thought provoking, informative, and entertaining.
13:50 acually kind of made me feel better about my own inadaquacy issues lol, it's good to to think that it's only anxiety that makes me feel unattractive
imagine how a woman feels. probably pretty tired it is almost midnite
0.0000001 seconds in:   I M    U N C O M F O R T A B L E
I'm lesbian because my wrists are small.
Chadpreet and currycel cannot be real  I'm not saying you're wrong, but if i accept this reality I'm worried i might explode with more force than that guy from scanners  Edit: I USED TO BE A SCIENTIST!!
The YouTube algorithm has been taking me to some cool Channels lately. Now I have to binge watch all of your stuff. Great vid
i feel really uncomfortable because this could have been me. severe social anxiety, clinical depression, few friends, fewer dates...that's me. i guess i'm lucky that my mind was ruled by obsessive-compulsive disorder during my formative years,  because i can picture myself reaching some of these conclusions on my own.  and that's the first time i've ever felt lucky to have ocd...you're hitting all the feels tonight - well done!
Can't decide which was more erotic: Natalie's monologue about the ocean or Olly's opening monologue. Probably the one about the ocean.
New Contrapoints! Today is a good day, thank you Jesus!   andweallthinkyouarebeautifulnatalie  *RUNS AWAY*
this video was so well done god bless you contrapoints
Natalie you are perfectly weird! <3
Tremendous
Everything about your set is awesome. The clothes and makeup are dope. The set and lighting are great. Now you just need to replace that fake plastic medical skull with a real one.
thank u for making ur videos so pretty to look at with the cool lighting and outfits!! (in addition to the excellent content) I LOVE YOU
i'd love to talk about a few millimeters of bone >:3
Absolute fucking Queen. 👑
Keep doin yo thing girl! Well done
I've been waiting so long for someone to talk about how fucked the LGBT board of 4chan is ty Mother
I'm a bit late to the party, but the waves went over my head. I don't understand what the sea thing at the end means. Please somebody help me.
I also get the radio silence. I try to enjoy it due to the fact that I'm not getting bombarded by asshats, but it does kind of slump my self esteem. Unfortunately I highly relate to the incels, yikes. I'm working on it
I got to Roosh V with his massive over-compensating beard literally saying "I am ultra masculine as you can see" and then I died R.I.P.
This topic disturbs me personally. I was friends with Elliot Rodger’s brother, and I remember seeing the toll the shooting took on that poor kid. He had to switch schools all because of his psychotic brother’s attempts to solve an issue that didn’t exist with bullets.  These forums and communities kill confidence and force people into depression and violence to continue the false narrative of women being evil. They are using kids for this shit, and it is unacceptable.
Wow I love you. This was phenomenal.
How tortured to hate women so much, and at the same time want them so badly. It's a really unhealthy way to think. I don't necessarily pity incels (I'm both a woman & from Toronto, where the recent van attack was) but... yeah, at the same time; I've been an awkward teenager. I get feeling unwanted, and if you're young, and get trapped in an Internet echo chamber-- I dunno. I guess I think it's kind of complicated. I think for all the good the internet's done, it can do a lot of harm in this way. Trapping people in these echo chambers that just encourage them to double-down on their unhealthy behaviours & turn them into part of their identities instead of growing past them. I dunno.
When I use to use internet dating I rarely got back any feed back. I have always been kind, courteous and polite.  I usually sent three paragraphs minimum. Intro, a common connection, and a thank you for reading. If I was half heartly into a person, I would spend 45 minutes minimum. Reading, crafting and reviewing.  My replies were about 3% and that is being generous.  At points I found it urking. But I kind of got it.  Still didn't mean it didn't hurt at the time.  Now I am in a good place.  Single, not really wanting to date. I found a way to live getting all my life boxes checked without someone else there.  I feel bad for the incel community. They kid of did it to themselves, and some of them had no hope.
The companies that make sexbots should aim their product at incels. They would make literal mountains of money.
im really drunk... but your violence is but a silent scream 4 love...
aaaahhhh you’re so cool!!! i wanna be like you some day! currently i’m living as a “man” but i’m really trans. Awesome video!
Amazing video. Also I hope your FFS consult went well!! I hope the surgery goes well!
this might just be the late-night lesbianism but jesus you are gorgeous
This was interesting. I also have something to add which is while it can seem to men/male people like this type of self hating community is something particular to being in that position in the sexual market place, that’s entirely false. Look at ‘meanspo’ and ‘proana’ on tumblr. Incels and TTT communities may be harsh on each other but in similar communities populated by young women we drive each other to the literal death, begging one another to be as cruel as possible. It’s kind of frustrating because I feel like Incels, an online community populated with young men, raises a lot more alarm in the population and is actually understood quite sympathetically, with lots of people trying to help them, simply because groups of young men more often enact violence on others than themselves. It’s also more sympathetic because most Incels are average/below average looking, whereas pretty skinny young women are considered to be so sexually privledged that our pains over beauty are nothing but vanity
"at least these men care enough about my pussy to be an asshole about my dick" but jesus fuck is it important to acknowledge how you've shared some deeply personal stuff here and god damn is that is that not some of that good parasocial shit.
I think you’ve awakened a desire for the ocean hidden deep within me...I guess that’s why men like boats so much.
I did a particular version of digital self-harm. It started as a need to 'give both sides a chance', my basic skepticism demanding that I had to determine if I was actually trans by reading the arguments of anti-trans "activists". So I spent like, 3 months straight (unemployed at the time too) reading dozens of TERF blogs and streams. Everything my trans friends said was filtered through the disdain and mockery of these "womyn-born womyn." I started to hate hearing about even their unrelated positive experiences. Most of all, I started to hate myself. So I stopped.  On the positive side, I'm very sure that being trans is an actual thing and that TERFs are actually wrong. Very, very sure.
"masochistic epistemology: whatever hurts is true" , Neat.
I don't wish to be dismissive of anyone's struggle, but... Do you think that a lot of masculinity derives from a sense of competence? The complaint from an incel about a woman using a purse sparked this in my mind, and I cannot escape the idea that women can use pockets in a more fashionable and useful way than men, given current standards of presentableness. Think about Batman's utility belt. It held everything he needed, didn't look bad, and was tailored to his current outfit.  Can't some enterprising fashionista craft a belt to match a pants-suit, ball gown, or daily wear to allow anyone to just have what they need without the responsibility of toting what amounts to a wartime medic's satchel everywhere they go. I am short, heterosextual, male, and tiny-wristed, but I haven't felt unable to relate to a woman since early high school.  Granted, I haven't measured my skull, but it was a birthday present and that would seem impolite. A genuine desire to be helpful, the capacity to solve problems involving some material lack, and common decency in regards to human diginty have allowed me to completely miss this incel movement until the news brought it up. Current fashion doesn't give women pockets, incels are angry about that (though they would just find something else to be angry about if I understand the mindset), and not being able to help sucks regardless of gender. The utility belt (I'm imagining a soft leather, four pouch as the baseline) could level at least one playing field in this current sex battle. The rest is just orgasms. Human contact without them is the norm. They can be obtained with the application of WiFi and privacy. Mixing the two... Pockets won't really solve that problem.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6X9CEi8wkBc  best band
Wait, women aren't just SCP subjects?!
With regards to your final point: What do you recommend for someone who lives in Colorado, about a thousand miles from the sea?
this channel is great how have I not come across it before!
Now that's a brilliant cold open 😂
32:00 this is the way my dad talks abt black people. Anyone who thinks like this should have their brains rearranged...
I feel a little call out about the finding the sea sexy.
i am so late to the party you are fucking hilarious.
then there's clowns like me that are too busy being a wageslave, tryign to survive and shit to bother my arse chasing someone else's arse.
A silky smooth intro followed by a grating, uninspired primer about misogynistic virgins should be listed under the video in the description box.
you're the best.
I used /lgbt/ back when it wasn't so homogenous (I'm bisexual, not trans). It was pretty bad then too, but the /tttt/ situation on that board kind of got out of control... and no one has actually tried to fix 4chan since moot went all "fuck it I quit" when he couldn't stop gamergate.
This video is great, the editing is wonderful. The voices for reading the posts are hilarious, and the topic is so well researched and explained. Definitely subscribing.
Wow, congrats Natalie, you made a compelling video that didn't pigeonhole the subject in an exclusively negative perspective and displayed empathy for human beings you disagreed with. Please continue this trend in the future.
I think this is my favorite video you've done so far. You didn't go for the cheap shots and low-hanging fruit (yes I went there). You opened up a lot about your personal life to boot. You have shown true compassion, all while calling them out for their cringe-inducing misogyny. Bravo!
Goddamnit your videos are so good I don't even know how to deal with it~~ <3 Thank you for your hard work.
You need to collab with Mega64 and have them do some theater reenactments of these threads goddamn.
Just wanted to say great job, Contra. And coming from someone who was skeptical of your ability to pass at first, you look great. Kudos, also, for not falling into the "JBP's fans are all incels" trap.
As a straight guy who doesn’t date all that much and is insecure it’s nice to see that I am definitely not an Incel. Jesus
Are Incels angry misanthropes who've been left alone for too long without proper guidance, to the point where they've lost all perspective on what constitutes basic human rights and decency? Absolutely.  Do they also make some valid points about the fact that modern society seems to demonize male sexuality while celebrating female sexuality? About the fact that women's standards _have_ jumped significantly in the last 15 years and that many guys (even non-Incels) have noticed this and checked out of the dating scene altogether? Absolutely.  Nobody is saying that Incels should be catered to; but we're doing ourselves a serious disservice if we decide not to question where the Hell they came from and whether or not we're doing anything to create an environment where they're multiplying (which we are, imo).  Sometimes, everybody is a little bit to blame.
Considering that the  darkest themes of MGTOW and Incels are a lack of self-reflection, I am staggered by the amount of irony in this video.
This is not what the red pill is, nor is it restricted to incels and related parties.
One word; Brilliant! My god... Intelligence is SO SEXY!
Proof that Incels are wrong: my mom married a man who describes himself as alpha( my dad) and remarried a guy who would be considered a beta (cooks cleans is nice) lol
This saved me like 5 years of trolling Reddit.
are gay incels a thing?
Women definitely like hot guys but they're not nearly as looks oriented as men. Being interesting, witty/funny, successful, accomplished, or talented in some way etc. are much more important to women. They want a man that they're not only attracted to, but also one that they admire. They want a man who has passions and goals that they're working towards. These incels have never developed as people. They've never become the strongest version of themselves or even tried to. They waste their lives in escapism and wonder why they're miserable and alone. It's because they have no purpose. No passions. That is why they're miserable, not because they don't get sex. I have a lot of empathy for them because as men, we've all felt this way at some point. But when you have an isolated community of men and they're all echoing this self defeating bullshit and perpetuating each others delusions then you basically become no better than the fat, purple haired land whales on tumblr bitching about the patriarchy all day. It's not healthy.
Wow..this is real...huh.
Incels really scare me sometimes but this video makes them seem less terrifying and also ur awesome.
I... didn't notice the problematic thing. Can a winner of discourse illuminate me please?
I wonder how large the overlap between the set of people who like "Creep" by Radiohead and the set of people who are disgusted by incels is. I'll wager it's actually pretty substantial.
My motto is: "If Verne Troyer can get laid with hot bitches, then you have no excuse."
Holy shit.  This was amazing.  Incredible content.
This is probably my favourite video of yours. The Left used to be the top of the list, but this was just great from the sympathy to the criticism to the brilliant edits and jokes that only added to what you were saying.  11/10. Will watch again.
"Chads and their fuckable skulls"
This might be my favorite ContraPoints video so far!
They should get jaw jobs just like women get boob jobs
I honestly want to know what their view on gay people is. Like do they think there are lesbian stacys and gay chads.
I didn't watch this video and expect to find Roosh V saying something right: I _do_ feel ultra masculine when I apply bread science in my kitchen.
You know, when I was in high school I got a huge crush on a boy in my class. This happened pretty early in the first year. I just one day saw him and got so attracted. It took a while for me to notice him because like me he was very shy, and I hadn't really heard him talk. He usually hanged around with a friend of his, as I hanged around with mine. He had this very dark brown hair, almost black. I adored it, maybe because most people here are blond. To me he was the cutest boy I had ever seen, even though I guess he just looked normal to most people. Actually, I bet there are some people in the incel community who have many of the same features as he has. In the first year I think I only saw him wear two different hoodies. I couldn't have cared less. For a year I had a crush on him, drooling after him every day and my friends trying to get me to ask him on a date. But I didn't because I used to be shy beyond belief. I was very insecure and only later realised that I'm actually very beautiful. I just didn't hear that from anyone while growing up, while these days I hear it a bit too often. I feel like I'm the ugly duckling that became a swan.   Anyway, in the summer break I was afraid he'd meet someone, but to my luck he didn't. Then started the second year, and everyone started to talk about a traditional ball that we would have later that year. Long story short; I gathered some courage, asked this boy to be my pair (via Facebook), almost got a heart attack while doing it, HE SAID YES, I asked him on a date as well, he said yes again. I had never been more proud of myself after daring to do this... We went on dates and to the ball, but never had any chemistry, and neither dared to say or do anything, so we never became anything. We literally didn't know what to talk about to each other, it was awkward. But it was still a nice experience. I like to think that I significantly boosted his self esteem by asking him, and I regret giving up. Years later we met at my work and I told him I wished that I had been less shy, implying that we might've become more. He agreed, also regretting his own shyness. We are both dating other people now.   I guess my point is that it's useless to wallow in self pity or to think that you're ugly and will never find anyone. There is someone out there who loves the way you look. Even if you have a big nose (I personally like that), weak chin (also like that or at least don't think it makes anyone less attractive) or eyes that are positioned in a way that they make you look tired. Actually, this crush of mine had all of these features. If an incel saw me out partying they'd probably see me as a "Stacy". So stop with your 'out of my league' shit, and IMPROVE yourselves!   Seriously, stop hating women, do something to improve your looks, go out there, see a therapist if you need to, and your situation WILL improve. It's crucial that you get out of your toxic mindset and the community of incels.
Ok Contrapints if new wave of horny naked people running into the sea begins. We will  now is your fault.
Drop the goofy tranny voice. You're not fooling anyone. Sounds like Mickey Mouse. Also the whole INCEL mass murderer narrative is total BS. You could say that hip hop also produces mass murderers but you won't do that because it's not PC. How many actual INCEL mass shootings occur a year? How many gang related shootings occur a year?
You're the best
*BREAD SCIENTIST*
LOL loved this video, the wrap up is hysterical (you're so mean)...these poor guys though, for real.
YOU are AMAZING
the sex robots are on the way..all will be well guys!
Nat, your brow ridge is perfect.  You do what you think is best for you, but your brow really doesn’t need changing.
Never heard of you and was interested in the topic so i watched and am very happy I did. Very well done. And I had no idea you were trans until you brought it up. So, yeah, you pass just fine. 💀
Great video and awesome insights! Thank you!
Ouch!
This is an amazingly well presented video, but I gotta ask, was that a suicide joke at the end?
"The Chads with the fuckable skulls" Winner line...
I'm a first time viewer, and oh my god, I'm so impressed. Keep up what you're doing. It's original, unique, entertaining, and exactly what the world needs.
Thank you! When I first saw the title of the vid, I wasn't super excited about it. However, I have a habit of visiting TTTT and gender critical subs. It hit close to home, and you're so right about that being self harm. <3
Love your videos!  I believe the reason racists focus on the skull, is the human tendency to focus on faces which tend to be viewed as part of the skull.  I believe this is why racists tend to focus on the jaw bone and forehead, which racists create categories out of thin air.  This may be unpopular, however I do view these "men" as victims of toxic masculinity.  Our needs mostly arise from others expectations of us, and men are expected to have sex with a bunch of women and if you don't, you are less than.  An untouchable of sorts.  What they don't want to admit is that they are oppressed, just not in the way they believe.  They are oppressed via toxic masculinity.  Loves!
Why does everybody consider incels as male only? I mean, a lot of women out there want to get laid too. Maybe it is just thatt women do not have a website
You made another great video and looked a amazing in it
You remind me of winona ryder, you're damn pretty.
There is also "white knighting".   My initial campaigning responses to what was evidently wrong when I first contacted the incel/redpill world seem to me so pathetic as to be cute.  only 3 or 4 years ago - it seems ages. https://isshehavingfun.wordpress.com/  I think your  sage advice and counsel in this video will stand the test of time much better than my effort with a female colleague did.
Your videos keep getting better and better. The production quality is insane. I love it. Keep going you beautiful goddess.
5 bases? If I didn't know better, I'd say you don't REALLY follow baseball.
Skulls...again!!!
I know that this can be taken in a rude way but I never would have known that you were trans You look great and sound great Plus I love the mannequin heads in the background!
Good video.
I came into this video knowing next to nothing about the term "incel", and I now feel pretty confident to discuss the topic if it should come up in conversation. I'm a cisgender heterosexual male, and I've had nihilistic thoughts about dating, like the incel community seems to foster. Especially during High School, I couldn't even imagine that a woman would find me attractive; I dread to think how I might have been affected during that time, had I gotten involved in this community. I still deal with a lot of rejection while dating, but I keep my chin up. I have the mental clarity to stay positive, but I wonder how many self-proclaimed incels are dealing with depression or another undiagnosed mental disorder. Blocking off websites sounds like a great solution, and I hope anyone struggling with this sense of hopelessness makes good use of that tool. What an excellent video; I love the style and visual creativity, thorough discussion, and humor, and I'm looking forward to more!
#bonecession #feminism
I can't handle the serious emotional parts right now so have this tangent instead...  Why does baking bread have to be justified as science? Why do you have to even try and justify said discipline as gendered. Why gender baking at all? Because I just made a weird blob monster of flour and bananas and chocolate chips and it's delicious and transcends such petty concepts as gender.  I mean, maybe I'm hitting my adulthood and it's changing me but I thought life skills and general competencies are considered pretty attractive anyhow.  Who would you rather date, hypothetical person a? Or hypothetical person a but they can also bake and or cook?
Thank you for this video. I have been trying to understand the incels ~culture~, but my gut rejected the incredible hate present on this subject. I'm actually surprised about the eugenics of the matter, but I know I should't be... Also, what you said about the toxicity of the mean content we seek affecting our psyque is very true. Let's keep our minds free of all the self loathing and live our lives... it's hard enough already, we don't need to sabotage ourselves too. Congratulations on your work, luv from 🇧🇷!
I AM ULTRA MASCULINE also queen your makeup was cutting in this video id kill for u
OMG, this was so thoughtful and great. <3 Also, now I have to go write some ocean and thunderstorm erotica.
Here's a personal comment nobody asked about: This video was very hard for me to watch and left me powerless on my bed for a while. I'm not an incel, but I do understand their hatred and depression. Look, I know I'm handsome and funny (if you get to know me), but sometimes it feels like I'm not cut for this world and I will die alone without anyone loving me. Most of the time I feel like I wanna die, then I swallow all this destructive thoughts and try to stand straight, just to be rejected again. It's a bit unpleasant, honestly, and I do understand with sorrow in my heart why people give up and decide to take their own lives... Everyday seems like it's the only way to stop this overwhelming train of self-loathing thoughts.  Anyway, after all this sadness, I just wish you the best in your lives, I really do. Fight everyday to keep your hopes up
How have I never heard of this channel?? Subscribing together now. This is the funniest shit we've seen in a year
Masochistic Epistemology ---- sounds like an attempt to overcompensate from the opposite (yet equally ineffective) approach to epistemology known as "wishful thinking".  People need to realize that while Wishful Thinking is not the way, neither is Masochistic Epistemology. They're trying to get away from wishful thinking by just adjusting the level of convenience that causes something to be perceived as "true" from "convenient" to "inconvenient". But both are making the _same_ mistake of seeing the level of convenience of a notion as being at all RELEVANT to it's truth-value.
Lol I knew that voice was Olly from the philosophy channel.
Wow, this is the video that has delved the deepest Ive come across on youtube about this subject. Incredible stuff, well done!
I like your A E S T E T I C Contra.
They just need the teaches of Peaches, and they'll be okay
There's a lid for every pot.  What else do you need to know.
I just found your channel and I love it the video was amazing!
okay i know the point of this was *not* to get me to check out /lgbt, but i absolutely did and it is nightmarish -- and SO reminiscent of pro-ana/mia communities. digital self-harm is so real and present for people with body dysmorphia/dysphoria of any kind, and its wild how similar those communities are regardless of who they cater to.
I know that closing voice, does he have a dashing stache n' Go T and a taste for Hegel?  Btw, that ocean ending was, well...you've officially pulled a Cousteau - put something so hot into the sea, that the sea itself became hot.  Also props for reaching out to the despairing, Mary Shelley would approve.
Great video! Im not a feminist or an SJW, but I enjoy your content. It’s important to have a sense of style and a sense of humor. Good stuff!  One small point though: The “red pill” is more of a term for the PUA community, incels have taken the “black pill,” which is *much* scarier and more nihilistic.
Oh, shit. I heard that word was a transmisogynistic slur, but never understood why and how it came to be. I had no idea.  Is this why people use words like hun, hunty and similars now? To keep away from that other word?
This is ear rape for headphones.
This is truly art
That shiny shirt thing is cool tho
I see you holding that skull and think back to reading Hamlet in HS.   Yes, that is strange. I'll see myself out now.
Brilliant analysis gorgeous!
I wonder if incels ever consider that men tend to rate themselves higher than women do. They think they're a 7, so they "deserve" a 7, but they're actually a 4 chasing a 7. I think men, then, are the hypergamous ones.
I am loving all the Davis Aurini nods in this thing.
Great Video. Probably The greatest ive Seen of you. So im gonna give my Personal two Cents about this, If you care to read it: Not feeling loved The way you  Want to is probably one of The worst feelings there is. Im feeling it right now. The pain ist excrutiating, and its a small step to give in to bitterness and depression, because in the beginning it makes the pain more bearable. Love is a powerful Thing, but so is The pain that comes with it. I couldnt bear it for some time, and I consider myself lucky to have Friends who kept me from going down The incel path. I think we often overlook how easy it can be to go down paths of hatred and bitterness and self-righteousness, Just because we cant and wont Accept that we're, in this very moment, alone and miserable, and simply cant see that its okay to be that way sometimes. I pity incels, and they should be pitied. You did a great, empathic and careful Job with your Video Girl, im proud of you. Im going to curl Up in my bed and cry myself to sleep now. But tomorrow is going to be a new day, and I will survive, which is a really calming thought. Keep at it Girl. Youre doing great!
god you're really smart can i be you please
literally i fit most of the description of a “chad” but i’m a complete loser lol
wow, damn. absolutely love your work. thought i knew about incels but now i _really_ know about incels
you're the best
people out there dying and suffering that need help also the planet is dying but sure devote all your energy into how you're unattractive and will never get laid
"They're alphas because they're still in development."author forgotten
I notice you are able to play MUSIC in the video.  How are you able to do that?  Is there a license you can buy or is there some kind of Youtube category that you can join which allows you to?  I've often wondered because if I ever make videos again I would like to be able to play music.
LMFAO @the Chad Circumstances!
A few millimeters of bone can be painful when no one wants to put it in them.
This must be demonetized. Only vid I watched without commercial breaks every 5 minutes.
You are incredible! I love how honest and specific you are in detailing your own experiences. You have genuine insight into this topic which shines through the humour of the video. I was hanging on every word. You have a way of talking which perfectly encapsulates those sub concious feelings that we all have but rarely express consciously. I also adore your self acceptance in that realistic comfortable way you have about you.
You should do a video on the apparent salt you have towards lesbians alone
F E M O I D S
This was brilliant.
You’re classy as fuck
Also, a lot of the visuals in this video reminds me of the neon demon
This intro makes me want to shower
you are an amazing goddess
Huh... i thought you were going to suggest that people just jerk off at the end.
Your work is much appreciated. I can understand them better now and I do like to know the world around me.  And the visual is gorgeous. Your humor helps make the subject less unpleasant.
One thing that is weird about all this is how Elliot Rodger is pretty much the most famous "incel" murderer, yet he is very different from most of them since he actually DOES see himself as an attractive gentleman.
Mumkey Jones on his Elliot Rodger epilogue said incels the internet cultural group not random virgins are just sad, lonely, and being more scared at them would only make things worse, maybe just being more compassionate could fix things, or I'm just being a hippie.
Even though I don’t have trouble dating women (I currently have a gf) I feel like the whole incel archetypes did some damage to me, I’m very skinny and sometimes I feel like I’m not worthy enough, idk what to do but I’m trying to distance myself from those people and from their lingo.
my god, I read the word "FOIDS" on a incel forum (copy/pasted by GourmetHotTakes on Twitter, thankfully) and I died a little when I found out later what that even meant.
I fuckin love your content and your bone structyah, you absolute babe https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qlg5InsskW4
And I thought I was pathetic. After seeing these guys, I feel much better about myself
Well Done Contra! As an at-risk incel you've steered me back to shore with this, at least for a while.... Here is your daily flattery of your gorgeous goddessdom and extra kudos for speaking up for rock'n'roll and naked swimming. They together will save mankind.
You genuinely keep my mental illness in check and have greatly increased my ability to socialize.
"Bread Scientist". That was a good one
Thank you for making this one of the most usefull videos Ive watched in years.
Not a trans girl.  Not gonna say ur a beautiful goddess since u mentioned that phrase specifically, just gonna say I want to date the SHIT out of you.  Maybe that sounds a little more hugbox-y 😉  Also, holy shit I have never seen this channel before (thanks r/MensLib!) and u got me H O O K E D!  Thank you so much for existing 💕 (Also pls marry me 😫)
That was a fucking masterpiece, thank you for existing.
really good video but the stylised to look like Russian text in the beginning is kinda brain breaking for someone who knows how to read Russian
i see no real difference between the angry incel’s mysoginy and uber-feminist’s kill-all-men hashtags and male tears mugs. I think most of it is resentment and exteriorization of internal problems. No, these women don’t want to kill all men and no, these incels won’t do 99% of the crap they claim they will totally do. Except that we fear the incels and use their misguided words as means to attack them instead of helping them because penis.
Oh shit. I'm neither incel or trans but I relate to so much of this about not believing compliments and digital self harm and stuff. Thanks. It's nice to know I'm not alone.
Gosh darn, the genius of some of the material here is fucking da Vincian. Sorry for the broken subscribe button
Wow, thanks for supplying me with terms like digital self harm and masochistic epistemology. Didn't know I was the only one that did that sort of thing on the internet.
i don't understand how these people exist. do they like girls or not? they claim to but i don't believe it.
Roosh is not ultra masculine. You don't get to spend that much time on your face-hair grooming and claim to be an exemplar of manly virtue. Also- cooking is just as manly as it is womanly; at a certain point, it goes beyond mere food to *foreplay* and THAT is why a real man cooks.
Omg I’m a cis woman with a big head, I’ve never been able to wear lady hats, and I had no idea there were others out there! Anyone who doesn’t accept their gender because they think their heads are too big is my natural born sister! Come to my arms!
Getting ASMR triggers off the skull-tapping right in the middle of this was a...peculiar experience.
Contra, your attraction to the Ocean is admirable but I don't think you two are getting together anytime soon. The Ocean is in love with Mako Tsunami AKA The Fish Freak. As for cats, forget it. Unlike women, they do think  they're too good for you.   P.S.  Tinder does suck because it's Tinder and for no other reason.
Straight men who are tired of the het dating scene should commiserate with lesbians. If straight female dating is easy mode and straight male dating is hard mode, lesbian dating is chaos mode. Until you manage two or three dates, and then it's time to Uhaul. BUT YOU CAN NEVER BREAK UP because that means going back on Tinder and spending four more years looking for your next relationship. (: Straight guys, instead of begging us to do a threesome with you and your gf or trying to convince us that your dick will turn us straight, make an alliance with your local lesbians and let's swap stories.
Seeing Roosh get so defensive over the fact that he bakes stuff (a totally normal thing that some men enjoy and not every woman enjoys) just shows how he is so paranoid about his attempts to be his skewed version of masculine (Kratos bears included) that he cannot even enjoy a simple hobby without doubting his own “manliness”.
Are you saying that Wernher von Braun, the Nazi Scientist and SS-member was also a misogynist? I'm am so disappointed ;-). Maybe he isn't the best example of a nerd thought, it's not like his vita has much in common with what's considered a nerd today.
You're sure this wasn't just a 4Chan thing? This is way too intricate to be a real community.
.
35 minutes?!!!!
Thank you so much for this insight into your own hell. I really appreciate it, it helped improve my sympathies for trans people in general. And it really hits close to home and therefore really touched me as well.  Now my own story: I have had avoidant personality disorder, obsessive compulsive disorder, extremely low self-esteem and depression as well as social anxiety because of frequent childhood narcissistic abuse that I shouldn't go too much into detail right now. Therefore I used to be involuntarily celibate and pretty much completely or mostly alone because it was incredibly stressful to be outside and be around people or even talk with them via Skype. I used to think that noone wants me or could care about me and I wouldn't believe women would REALLY want me if they got to know me more. Therefore I would have been perfect recruiting material for incels, especially when I started using dating Apps and felt rejected in so many ways that I have stopped using them pretty much entirely. The only difference was this: I was also a feminist and continue to be so. My sexual frustration never resulted in an overt hatred of women.  Nowadays my struggle is not anymore with being accepted by women, but with getting close to people. I've realized that i actually got around 1 female love interest each year for the last 4 years, and right now I actually have a few people in my friendship circles who want a relationship with me or have sex with me. I just refuse to do so because I stopped accepting random people who like me just because they like me. I have to like them as well, and so far I neither want a relationship with people that I don't find that interesting nor do I want to have sex with a good female friend of mine, just because I don't consider sex as part of a friendship. Yes, there are actually men who don't jump in bed with any woman just because he can. I still don't really know my sexual orientation, or when something real develops, but until then I still am kind of involuntarily celibate.
Is nobody going to mention that intro? God damn.
6:13 "But why _skulls_ " - David Mitchell
"calm down lesbian stans" we love you contra
I can just barely infer what "Volcel if you wouldn't" means but I KNOW it's a sick comeback.
Thank you sooooo much for not mocking them. The incels need HELP, they are desperate and being mean to them will just make everything worse.
I enjoy my wine like I enjoy fact based arguments. Rosé
jbp isn't sexist :(
Oh great, now Im going to spend the rest of my life looking for more skull tapping ASMR.
The thing that always drives me nuts with these lot is they think they can't get laid because they're ugly or socially awkward or whatever, when it is in fact because they're so over-the-top misogynist they make Roosh V look likeable. To say nothing of their hatred of most men. Or their eagerness to take credit for terrorism that is second only to ISIS.
Working an overnight bread shift at a bakery would confuse the shit out of ol. Roosh.
I love how happy Natalie looks at 26:05 her smile is so sweet
Watched this bc of Carlos Maza and holy shit you're a gotdamn hilarious genius, thank you
This stuff is just making me cringe.  The material from the incels themselves are to blame.
Well, now I am questioning if I am really an incel.  I am by technicality, but there seems to be more to it and it's another community I am exiled from before joining.  At least I got chicken.
Not incel, but that path was one I was headed down a several years back. I am just glad my family is smarter than me and kept me sane and I pulled out. *like my dad didn't* (couldn't help it)   There is still a part of my brain stuck on step 4 or 5 though.  Also, you would be amazed at how many guys I know in my unit in the Army, that are body builders and "chads" but the whole reason they push themselves to be a gym rat is due to insecurity in how they look. It is almost like the entirety of "Western" society is fueled by masculine insecurity.
All the phrenologists  in the room say heeeeyyyyy, oh...
I came across this video looking for more information on this very strange subculture. This is a very informative video, so thank you for that. I am an over 40, heterosexual redneck male. I don't give a fuck how people identify. You gotta be you, and that manifest in many ways. As long as your self identity doesn't hurt someone else, I say, more power too you. You seem like a very nice person, so I want to say this, and I hope that if you read this, you take it as honest truth. I had no idea you were transitioning until you brought it up. I fucking hate when people feel the need to tear down someone to build themselves up. Hurting  someone to make yourself feel better is fucked. People can't take responsibility for their own predicaments so they have to find another group to blame. We are seeing it A LOT recently. It fucking sucks and I hate it. Sorry, I was ranting a little bit. Again, thank you for the video.
reproductive rates and marriage rates are dropping. Societal, not individual, changes have been made that are decreasing relationship satisfaction.
Well natured but misguided and cringy
"Lamentation and Cuckoldry" sounds like a great album title tbqh.
at first I was like "yeah stick it to em Contra"  then I felt personally attacked
Damn you absolutely knocked it out of the park with this one.
22:22  Can we have an ASMR of you tapping a human skull while explaining Incel theories about bone structure? Please?
Elliot Rodgers, "eminently bangable twink" is the best thing I've heard in months!  Thank you!
Poor guys self hatred turns to hating others so quickly. Lol if you want to get a girlfriend make friends with them.
An interesting thought just hit me. We on the left have our own online communities where we bemoan our underdog status and try to analyse and understand how the status quo represses and exploits us. So do the alt-right. So do feminists. So do any number of minority groups brought together by a common belief system.  Isn't this just a feature of human society? That we like to converse with familiar people, identify our perceived enemies and share our frustrations.  Yes, incels are incredibly pessimistic and worryingly hateful...but their minority community has a lot in common with every other minority community. Just a thought, not sure if it really helps though.
Thank you for reminding me I need to start drinking again.
"Chaise Longue..." NICE! FTW!
Oh and nice vid   Makes me think about legendary infamous uncle Anders Breivik
Dude. You're not a woman.  But you know that already.
Dang gurl u fuckin hot in this vid lemme get that boipussy
We are all master bakers in the privacy of our own homes.
Men dont have any body standards. Only women have societal expectations. Men can walk around free from all judgement and unfair treatment. This video is pandering to incels, you are not a real leftist. Anything short of killing pathetic and scheeming maloids. ... I love how its reasonable for a man to start catastophising, but the second a woman or lgbt person whines about wanting to be loved by others and wanting to kill themselves they are never catered to or helped out.
so. basically incels are highly narcissistic men who wouldn't dare to grow up and they project their own shit into the world around them to find something to blame for their own lack of responsibility.
For guys who push the the idea of sex robots, HAVE YOU SEEN WESTWORLD? :)
are straight dudes ok??? wtf these guy need some help
Contra, this shit is amazing 10/10. Keep doing these vids!
Splendid.
respect the pantheon. prepare for the man drop.
You're one talented mofo.
Hey! I prefer “The Becky!”
I've never been an incel or particularly hated women, but I definitely have felt that exact feeling of self loathing and sometimes still do. I feel this video may have helped somewhat with it, thanks Contrapoints <3
I hear some retro wave music throughout this vid. Respect!.
That squeaky violin during the incel comment reading was hilarious. Great video.
I liked this video for your amazing set, outfits, and lighting
"Bread scientist"
Whenever i see you’ve uploaded a new video, I’m not excited to click on it but as soon as I do I cannot leave regardless of how long the video is! Great work as usual, Tracy!
Thanks a lot. A bunch of incels just froze to death in the Oregon Ocean.
Contra really gets deep sometimes. I look up abusive comments a lot, to the point where it's become a part of my obsessive compulsive disorder. I'm glad I'm at least not alone in that. The 'what hurts is true' line is definitely familiar for me.
For you INCELence, you will be PUNished :)
Well, you are beautiful. So that's one objective opinion from a CIS male. Thanks for the info; it's quiet disturbing, but gives me new insight into a world only seen from the ranting of Twitter. It is a shame people are so confused about their identity, but I see little I can do to help the situation. I hope your doing well.
Incels are all bummed they haven't won the Indy 500 when they  haven't even had their first driving lesson.  They are aware there's such a thing as escorts, right?
With each video, I get gayer for Contra UwU
How do you recommend training one's voice? I'm really worried about this...
I had a very traumatic experience an incel roommate a few years back. No matter what I said I couldn't get through to him. He terrorized and harrassed every single woman close to me. He would even hit on women I was on dates with and lash out at them when he was inevitably rejected. Because I am an empathetic person I stopped bringing home dates (men or women. I was either a Chad or a fag in his eyes, just couldn't win.) because he felt I was lording my supposed dating prowess over him. After a few months of this he'd rant on his facebook wall about men who could date, but squandered it. i.e. me. He lost his virginity in the time we lived together. This changed nothing. He was still miserable, still hated all women, still resented me for not sharing my so-called tactics with him. He didn't believe me when I told him that I'm not tricking women into sleeping with me. This living arrangement was pure hell. He took his own life shortly after turning thirty, just as he always said he would. I guess his 30th was his black pill moment and he just didn't want to live like that. This year-long period of my life fucked me up profoundly. How does a pansexual feminist even begin to relate to these people, to help them? I tried everything I could. I've had to realize and accept over the years that not everyone can be helped. That nothing I did caused him to do what he did. I've begun to move on and date again. It's tragic that incels exist and they live in so much pain, but there's nothing I can or frankly should do for that matter that will improve their situation. I'm just going to live my life, and try to be a light in the world. I want to thank you for making this video. It helped put a lot of things in perspective that I was struggling to understand and was obsessing over. I feel an immediate sense of relief. You're absolutely wonderful. Keep making videos, and I'll keep watching.
Eyo, gotta say, you are nailing so many things on the head. I think it’s fantastic that easy to consume content that brings life saving advice and introspective is starting to really spread. It seems very much to be a fault in the system that this has developed with incels but not the way they think. Thank you for helping them!
You're such a Stacy with those lashes gal
I mean, your voice sounds kind of weird, but if i wasnt an early fan i dont think i would have suspected that you are trans. Ppl have weird voices
Contrapoints ASMR skull tapping...
I'm I a incel because im still a virgin but i already refused a girl.
NATALIE I JUST WANNA SAY YOUR HAIR IN THIS VIDEO IS FLIPPIN AMAZING AND LIKE MEGA GOALS AND AAAAAAA
ohhh kept that guitar in my bedroom that's why I'm not in the manosphere
Oh this video is my favorite so far ♥  Also do you want to marry me ?  bye
This video was brilliant,  you did a good job capturing and explaining the self loathing and the weird catharsis that's found in depression of any kind, really well done. I think it would be nice for someone currently going through this to see someone break it down in this way.
"The inherent eroticism of the sea"... didn't expect to laugh so much during a video of this nature. Brilliant!
You're fantastic!
Chang is a King of the Hill reference. I'm screaming.
Incels buy tiki torches and go to Alt-Right protests
The Incel paradox: They hate women because they can't date them, but they can't date women because they hate them.
Glad you got away from toxic forums Contra. Dick or no dick, i have the biggest crush on you <3
when you said someone finding you attractive is something you like about people I felt that hahahahaha
the only reason ive felt myself going more and more towards stuff like incel is because when i was 16 an ex i had dated with i was 13 accused me of rape and it just fucked with my brain so hard its scary to imagine going through a situation like that and it ruining my life. I just cant see myself as anything but a creep.
Incel tip of the day: Go for autistic chicks. If you are in your twenties and haven't fucked yet everyone else has better social skills than you. Even if you do somehow land a normal chick it won't last because of your stunted personality and she'll tell all her friends how much a creepy weirdo you are. With an autistic girl that isn't as big of a risk because you'll be the one with better social capital.
Also into the sea.
Why don't you have millions of subscribers? I don't get it. You should be on top of youtube. At least beside Pewds.
This was amazing. You are amazing.   Sadly though, I've also learned if I were an incel I would be a wrist-cel. And it's true. There _are_ dildos bigger than my wrist. How could any woman ever want my wrist in her knowing that?
Thank you so much for this video.  The whole thing was brilliant, but the "4th base" made me understand that I do sometimes do what incels do, intentionally seeking out that which harms my psyche in the belief that what hurts must be true.  I'd never heard it put into precise words before, and I think realizing it will help me stay mentally healthy.
Hyper subscribed
"I used to live as a man" "im not proud of that" serious misandry all over this video you're calling people with anxiety disorder depression and mental illness a death cult. Well don't worry no one would ever accuse you of empathy or sympathy.
Agree on eroticism of the sea though. I love the sea, perhaps way more than is healthy.
I love how hype she got about how it always comes back to skulls xD Quality moment
1:29 Everyone talking about Olly, but I'm just thinking how cool it is we get to see Shaun without his Shades.  22:29 Wow, Jen ain't gonna be happy to see you doing that to Shaun, Contra!
The tinder bit was unexpected but it made me wish you would make a whole video about it. Trans people comparing male vs female experience is super interesting stuff.
This is by far the most informative and most humorous video about incels I've ever seen.  I laughed continuously for several minutes when you put in a clip of Roosh having turned into an LOTR dwarf baker desperately trying to rationalize how it doesn't make him less of a man.  You are the best thing about the modern hard left.  I must wonder about the dilemma Roosh would face if he makes a baguette.  If he puts it in his mouth whole, he'll be afraid that makes him gay.  If he slices it first, he'll be afraid that makes him a feminist.
HOLY SHIT CHADPREET IS A REAL THING?!?!  I CANT HELP BUT LAUGHX
why are leftists so obsessed with this stupid fucking shit like lmao give it a rest so the internet draws out fucked up people what a surprise, i think these guys are insane but you people love to complain about this fucks and yet you don't seem to have any solution to it so it's pretty much the same negative energy incels give off like just stop
You look go good in this video
First time i ever watch a video of yours, and JFC U ARE AMAZING
Can you please narrate a nature documentary?
All real men should research about prostate pleasure and the fascinating science of anal sex.
hell yeah mendelssohn gay icon
I feel alright because people tend to come to me on vrchat.
Lol
I mean I’ve been in droughts too. But I think knowing that you’ve attracted women successfully before gives you that reason to go out and do it again. It sucks that Incel’s inexperience with intimacy directly lead to their lack of having made emotional connections with women, which  in turn fuels their misogynistic beliefs. I suppose we’ll always have incels for this reason.  Side note: Do y’all think legal prostitution would have a positive impact on the incel community?
Hello beautiful, once again you have impressed me with your intelligence, insight and humor, and lest I forget, your bone structure. As a gender dysphoric, who is primarily attracted to women I am it seems an unwanted, undesirable unworthy of a response to craftily-worded-respectful-letters-of-introduction individual and I found the more I obsessed over interwebbie dating sites the more depressed I got, so I deleted my profile and found solace with litres and litres of chocolate ice cream. Mmmmm.    It seems to me it is a vicious cycle that begins its spiral by not loving yourself, regardless, and putting too much emphasis on external validation. There is noting wrong with spending time by yourself, there is nothing wrong with being nerdy and quite frankly, popularity usually is an appeal to the lowest common denominator. Sure a Chad or a Tracey may look good on the outside, but internally these people are quite often the most vacuous heartless individuals around without an ounce of intelligence to them. ugh. And not only that, terrible sexual partners for simply being with them is supposed to be a privilege and Gawd, do not mess her hair.   Peace, luv and keep on keeping on.
Incels are non-athletic middle schoolers who refused to grow up. Sincerely, a guy who was not athletic in middle school and by the grace of bog grew up.
5:51 what are you when you have bigger eyebrow bone structure than the chad in the picture?  19:59 (Spoiler) Best out of context part.  Yeah, got to agree, the sea is pretty fucking great.
Never thought I’d end up standing intellectually side by side with Contrapoints.
Idk I think pickups are a lot easier if you're a guy. At least when you have isolation on a dating app you're in control of the situation, and besides you can always send more messages to different women if you need distraction. Then again I'm not really an unbiased source lmao
Even after watching the video I still don't understand how them not having sex is women's fault when all they do is point out how inferior they are. Like boy it's either "just nature and out of your control" or "all women are bitches" you can't have both.
I just found your channel.  I am a MTF transgender.  I never had that TTTT phase as I was never on 4chan.  I am glad that I found a great community that helped me when I first started transitioning.  There are times I am not seen as female and other times I am.  I am just me but thank you for the video and I will be looking for more videos.
Not to worry, I’d prefer face to face friendship over a catalog of idiots.
look at all of these diaperbaby dislikers lololol
From what you say right here 14:56, does this mean a plausible cause of this trend is a lack of strict parenting?
You're really funny and I like your bi lighting 💙💜💖
Wow. You are gorgeous inside and out.  Your, for lack of a better word, “deconstruction” of the incel community was very insightful. Thanks
When you mentioned, that you was a man before, I thought ok, that makes sense. But before you mentioned it, it didn´t come to my mind at all. You realy are perfectly normal woman.
"At least these pricks care enough about my pussy to be an asshole about my dick." I love this sentence and I love you for having uttered it. It's George Carlin-level linguistic fuckery. I rammed the subscribe button immediately.
You have very good content.
[Insert witty comment here.]  Just kidding, I don’t really have much to say; it was a beautiful vid as always, but damn, this one hit a bit too close to home.  I’m glad I don’t hate women.
>you live miles and miles from the sea and will never experience the wild winds whipping the waves into a frenzy, never smell the salty tang in the air as you walk along the beach, never be enveloped completely in that deep, dark water miles away from the coast Why live
I think this is the best video on incels to date. It doesn't browbeat or bully incels in the same way many other videos do, but it isn't irresponsibly sympathetic. It presents a deeper and more meaningful look into who incels really are, what they believe and why they believe it without giving them credit for their actions. I used to identify myself as a beta male until I met trans girls on the internet, but now i'm an asexual trans girl and I've honestly never been happier and more comfortable in myself. I still have anxieties and insecurities and I'm definitely no saint, but I don't feel like lying down and rotting anymore. This belief in Chads and Stacys is harmful to everyone including the incel who believes in it, and the sooner this attitude dies out the better.
Love the eerie vibes at 22:38! They make the things you say much more engaging.
such an important video.  Love you Contra!
New guy here, you looked like an average woman and I didn't notice. But I do wonder why you bring it up when your goal is to just be a woman.  Also, are you just attracted to nature? Do you dream of Gaia and Captain Planet?
Return back to the ego, return back to the land
Oh holy shit is that how you pronounce "chaise lounge?" I have to go write some apologies
the best dissection i have ever seen
Re: Masochistic Epistemology (and/or aesthetics), here's Úrsula K. Le Guin: "The  trouble  is  that  we  have  a  bad  habit,  encouraged  by  pedants and sophisticates, of considering happiness as something rather stupid. Only pain is intellectual, only  evil  interesting.  This  is  the  treason  of  the  artist:  a  refusal  to  admit  the  banality  of  evil  and the  terrible  boredom  of  pain.  If  you  can't  lick  'em,  join  'em.  If  it  hurts,  repeat  it.  But  to  praise despair  is  to  condemn  delight,  to  embrace  violence  is  to  lose  hold  of  everything  else.  We  have almost lost hold; we can no longer describe a happy man, nor make any celebration of joy." ("The Ones Who Walk Away From Omelas")
best expository on inceldom i've seen!
Jesus i havent watched you since you said you just started your transition. What. A. Change.
Your videos are amazing.
Bravo! Bravo! For thou art the goddess of Freudian thought!
This was seriously educational. Great presentation
I´m not supposed to get feelings from the discourse video T_T
Interesting video!  You’re not an unattractive woman but I find the whole idea of being trans a little strange.  Like your abandoning your heritage.  It’s good to think but sometimes thinking separates us from the transcendental moment.  I think trans people might be thinking too much.  But to each their own.  The incell phenomena is an example of what I would call identitization.  The result of the need to form concrete identities in an effort to control our worlds.  I think we need to allow or enable people to loosen the need grip identity so tightly.
These videos are so incredibly well crafted at this point. I'm continually impressed at the nuance, the unique perspective, and humor each time I watch one of your recent videos. YouTube sucks shit a lot of the time but I'm still glad we can point to channels like this and say that people are creating thought provoking, culturally relevant discourse, even on these deeply flawed platforms.
just clean your fucking room you fucking bucko fuck
Fuck you for comparing /lgbt/ to incels
Oh my God... the Chad Circumference... lol
Fucking hilarious video. Extremely well put together and explained. Love your style.
I love your set/lighting. It feels like I'm chilling out in a really cool tent while you tell me about sexism and ridiculous men.
If I pee in the Ocean does that make me a domcel?
Today I hoovered and was in a kitchen. I AM NOT A WOMAN. Also, I'm really good looking (perfect skull), but I don't get laid because of my awful personality, which pill do I need to take?
Holy fucking shit 1 minute in and I'm already in tears 😂😂😭
21:52 What the fuck is wrong with you that you would waste all that time and money for fucking nothing?
6:32 - 6:42, 22:20 - 22:33  Slipping some ASMR in there, I see.
Hell yeah new Contra
I am just ULTRA MASCULINE
Speakin' as someone who used to be prone to some pretty toxic mindsets (though never an incel), These guys seem to be in a tough fix. When you get caught into that sort of mindset and (the attendant feedback loops) the only thing that'll change you is _you_, but you've got to want it...and being miserable itself winds up being addicting so it's hard to get to that point if you're even slightly mired in the mindset. Hell, "Despair is addictive" is a big part of understanding a lot of things, come to think of it.
This is so great
Regards information I thank you for doing the work and the content's production has only ever got better.  The first video I caught was the What the Alt-Right Fears. Loved it, watched all your work since.  You're a beautiful person inside and out.
Did a similar thing as Natalie, except I kept reading TERF shit. This kind of mental self-harm is such a strange phenomenon.
A wonderful, funny, thoughtful video. Thanks for sharing your thoughts on the subject!
This is some of the best analysis I've ever seen of the incel community. Thank you so much for your perspective!! Goddamn, sharing this with everyone.
Honestly i think everyon jist needs to stop following movements, and just start listening to their inner selves.  Fuck incels, PUAS,  MGTOW, And duck feminist and SJWs also.  Stop listening to all of this garbage, it will only duck up your mind
I just found this channel a few days ago. I fucking love your videos aesthetics
So you probably won't see this in the veritable sea of comments, but every time you upload a new video, it makes me so happy. I had  a really crappy day today, and coming home from work, the first thing I did was watch this, only to immediately feel better about... everything. Seriously. There is something about watching a well-read, funny, gorgeous person talking at length and in depth about an interesting subject that just makes me feel that much better about being alive. This will sound corny, but... you give me hope. So thank you, Contra, for helping a bit with the crippling depression and all that jazz. You are amazing.
It's so absurd that guys would form their entire identity around not getting laid.  Back in the day, when people couldn't get laid they just got hobbies.   Shit, I ride my bike 10 miles a day, after that I'm not thinking about sex, I'm just thinking about sleep.
Love the Bataille/Rimbaud allusion.
Faithfully Married, old, cis, male, brought up in a 50/60's culture of 'get drunk, come home and beat the wife, which is ok, because it's just a family matter', and I LOVE the hell out of you. (P.S. my grandmother, gawd rest her soul, made sure I knew how to bake bread, knit, skin rabbits and gut a deer.)
Ummmm, alcohol?  Ever heard of it?  In reply to the beginning
3:55  Yeah, I get it, incels are fucked.  Like yeah, some people are murderers and their mindset is fucked.  We don't really have to go that far out of our way to understand them.  They hate.  I am just kind really disappointed that everyone is flocking to "understand" these incels.  It just seems like there's like no attempt to understand a typical average man..... and not in a way that the goal is to judge them as if they're terrible people, like incels.  Average guys are just ignored, like we don't have to think about them.  What about guys who are just hurting, and who are _not_ fantasizing about enslaving all women?
I just found your channel (because Lindsay Ellis) and have been binging your videos like you binge on Corn Dogs.  I have one suggestion/question: Have you tried Sausage in a Pancake on a Stick yet?  They are so much better than Corn Dogs!
"Masochistic epistemology"? Damn, that's good.
Though not as extreme as in some cases I've seen online, in my teenage years I behaved similarly to incels and was one. In my case, years of being pushed around at school which eventually lead to an inability to communicate with girls made me see women almost as something different than men, as tho theyre not human, not in a demeaning way, but rather not being able to understand that they are beings with feelings and thoughts and personalities just like everyone else. I remember at times, going out with friends, a group composed of only men, and I would see a guy going out with a friend who was a girl and Id spend a lot of time just wondering "How does he do it?" "How does he talk to her?" "What is he saying that makes her be interested in what he has to say?" I had that almost meme status mindset of "She talks to me I love her", because truth be told, just being addressed in a conversation, which is something pretty mundane, was something that never happened and would feel very special. At the time I had the ideia that you must always be looking for a partner and was unable to accept that you can just be friends with a woman, the only point in having a conversation with one is to find yourself a partner, else she friendzoned you which is bad, drop her, go find another. Eventually (late teens), I realized the problem was me and i had serious issues, and with some effort, tho harsh at times, I managed to grow out of it and all of these thoughts went away as soon as i started making girl friends, and was able to relate to them, and befriend them. I think most incels are just outcasts, who cannot understand why they are outcasts, and this frustration leads them further down in the rabbid hole theyre digging themselves into.
Who would've thought that being incredibly and irretrievably desperate and insecure would act as an unfortunately effective woman repellent? I mean everyone knows that women love being in empty relationships. It's not like while of course mutual attraction in the beginning is important, the personality has any actual importance in deciding whether or not its worth getting to know someone.
Only contra can make me laugh just by mentioning a corndog
Bran Flakes... LOL
I'm watching this with my wife and trying to help her understand. As a teen I went through a self-deprecating lonely depression spiral. In the list you presented I can see I never got past stage 5. I never blamed women for my own failings and I believe that's the key point where you go from just depressed and into full on misogyny. I became a better artist, worked on my sense of humor, re-aligned my own personal expectations, self-improvement is the answer. Also, if all you are looking for is sex, that's probably at the root of your entire problem. If you can't get past that, you are the whole of the problem and nothing external is going to solve that. Incels want something they can't have because they are not willing to put in the work and instead of blaming their own effort-shock project that hatred outward. Nobody is ever going to respect a self-loathing whiner who can't take the first step of admitting they are the actual problem and not some made-up farcical 'feminist agenda' targeting them specifically. Grow some Cojones men-children.
Hope can be paralyzing. Personally, I wasn't able to move past the pain of being single until I was able to lose all hope of changing that. Sometimes you just need to learn how to properly despair, and that's something society doesn't allow people to do these days, especially those with privilege. That said, you don't need to hate anyone else in order to despair for yourself - that's an artifact of how competitive and aggressive men are required to be.
I'm a 34 year old, miserable white, straight male virgin, but at least I understand that that I'm simply just fucked up and need to work through my own stuff.
I've no idea how I found your channel, but I'm so happy I did! You rock, I've subscribed and hit the bell. Your makeup and mode of dress is really admirable as well. And hell, lighting and sound design too... I'm gushing, but anyhow well done.
Incredible. Your personal insight in the last third of the video made this particularly profound.
I don't have anything to add aside from this is all totally true of a lot of mental health subreddits too, which is why I left BPD threads
"Imagine how a woman feels".   Ah man.... when I first read that, I thought the person was actually going to consider how women feel.  But apparently he meant how would it feel to have sex with a woman.  I get man, I totally get it.  It would feel good and it's natural to desire that.  But your chances of actually getting it would be many times greater if you took the time to actually consider how women feel.  Here's some things to consider.... women have evolved to choose men who they are attracted to, who have qualities that they desire.  And women evolved to be selective about who they have sex with because they only produce a few eggs in their whole life, and furthermore, historically, pregnancy has actually been quite life threatening.  So evolution made it so women are choosy about who they fuck, and also to repulsed by other qualities.   They didn't evolve to satisfy your desires.   The fact that you desire them so greatly is pretty much irrelevant to them, in fact, it might even be repulsive.  Basically, men pretty much evolved to satisfy women's desires.  But I don't even mean her sexual desires, I mean her evolutionary needs and want.  Getting sex is the reward for doing so.  It is irrelevant IF she is not attracted to you. The good news is, your small fuckin chin doesn't matter nearly as much as you think.  Women are attracted WAY more to behavior, and how a person carries themselves in general, and moves through life.  Confidence is way more important than your dumb ass chin. , So if you're going through life worried about your stupid chin, that right there is a signal of massive insecurity, which is a way bigger deal than your small chin, so stop worrying about the chin.  SO the good news is that you can work on these qualities that women are attracted.  Having said that, I do agree that women completely ignore some men, and they could just fuckin.... give some guys a break ffs.  Because we live in a world where people do have casual sex, ok?  Sex is not just about reproducing, in fact, it's almost always not about having a kid now.  It's about fun and good health, and women just aren't including a lot of guys.  But..... unfortunately, women don't really care about these guys desires and needs.  They just don't.   And a lot of times, it's not even about attraction, there's a lot of social pressure on women to not get with certain guys, unless he's popular, or there's something about him that is considered particularly desirable.  The idea of just getting with a guy because he's horny and depressed, and she's a little horny is not something society in general, or women care for.  But..... I think they should.  I think it would be good for society.  But..... you can't force anything.  The best I can do is just try to tell people.... look, these guys are fuckin hurtin.  Just go ahead, no one will judge you.  But anyway, the chances of my little pep talk for society to slut it up a bit, probably won't do much.  However, YOU can take action in your own life and become more confident and shit like that.  That is what is going to get you consistent results, instead of a possibly pity lay once in your life.  Having said all that though, I'm not necessarily talking about "incels" when I'm talking about the people who deserve sex.   I'm talking about regular guys who are actually decent, nice guys, who just don't get sex much.  That's often not the same thing as the people who call themselves incels.  People who call themselves incels are often so bitter and so hateful that I don't even want ANYTHING to do with them, let alone do I think they deserve sex.  I'm just seeing that in the world, a lot of perfectly decent men are completely ignored, even though there's nothing really wrong with them, and they're not even unattracitive.  They're just not AS attractive as alpha males, so women are just passing them up almost 100% of the time.  I think it's sad and it's kinda ridiculous, and I think women should just include more men in casual fun.  But incels on the other hand..... I kinda hate them.  I hate them because they've stigmatized the idea of not getting laid to become synonymous with total hateful loser, who is possibly on the verge of killing everyone.  That's not a typical sexually frustrated man.  I think incels make it harder for average people to get anything because now as soon as a man expresses any kind of sexual frustration at all, he get labelled incel, which is basically.... a terrible thing to be associated with.  The problem with my argument here is that I am making a logical point, and women don't respond to logic.  I am basically saying, "cmon, just do it, it would be good for the guy, it would be good for everyone, and you would enjoy it to".   Nah, that doesn't fly with women.  Tell you what though, I bet if kissing nice guys became a cultural phenomenon, then all of a sudden you would have women flocking to under appreciated men.  If someone made a movie, or a song that somehow made it seem cool to give sexual attention to average guys, then women would gladly do it all the time.  Right now, we have the friendzone anthem.  But I bet if there was a movie out or something that made people think that friends are actually cool and made people think, "oh, you know what.... friends actually ARE valuable.  Let's show them some love".  But now all society can think about is this friend zone anthem where this woman just endlessly rejects this poor guy who loves her, no matter what he does.  The song says, "we're nothing more than friends"...... like that's not good enough.  It _is_ enough, I think.  Not saying I demand the attention, or it is always good enough.... but it's like right now, female sexual power is so ridiculously out of whack, it's like a friend is NEVER enough and even the thought of it is just out of the question.  I just think it's too much.  I mean, think about it.... why isn't it enough to be a friend?  aka, just an average decent guy?  I figure if you are part of society, and you're not an asshole, you _should_ be having sex.  Like what is the problem?  If you contribute to the world, why are you not worthy of casual sex?  Never mind reproducing.  Or, you know what, never mind the sex.  What about just making out? If sex is too much responsibility, kissing and touching isn't.... right?  Sorry to ask the question, but women _are_ the gatekeepers of sex, they are the only ones that can be asked this question.  Pffffff.... anyway, that's just my logical opinion on the subject.  Really the most important thing is to become as attractive as possible
The bit about the memes being harmful and infecting your way of thinking was one of the more important parts of the video. It put something I'd had on my mind into words pretty well.
I wonder how much money stock photo models get off the back of being used to represent downtrodden virgins, and if any amount is enough to be worth it.
Aren't you a little late to the incel bullying train? It's ran its course.
what a surprise. some tranny who probably was an incel prior to transition now gets his asshole full of cum and is just like some middle class baby boomer like "I worked hard, why can't these God damn kids?!"   your name isn't contra, it's Uncle Tom
If incels have such a high need for sex and intimacy and such a hatred towards women -- and I'm just floating this idea here: Maybe they should just fuck each other. *shrugs*  Seriously, think about it: They already have a lot in common. They all have a burning desire to get laid at any cost, they all have little to no experience in romance or relationships. Experimenting with each other would be a perfect way to temporarily satiate those desires, de-mystify sex, and to gain experience in romance or dating (albeit with guys).
You're a gorgeous, genius goddess, Natalie. And don't let anybody–not even yourself–tell you any different ;) XOXO
And another thing it was that serious to begin with there are plenty of women for these men. Now to women in my experience prefer men of color so i might have an easier time than them. Idk they have a tough time with mental baggage that needs to be dealt with. Any man can be desired you have to make an effort to change yourself.
Honestly, This was a great video. Very well researched, of course, but also with an insanely high production quality! (Especially the lighting and colorimetry.) As a trans woman, that bit towards the end hit a little too close to home for me. While I had no idea of what was going on on /lgbt, I do have a habit of seeking discourse videos about trans people on youtube and going off in the comments, half hoping to get suicide baited for the heck of it. I didn't know this was an actual thing, since everyone else I know tends to take care of themselves and stay away from that kind of content. I guess I'll have to work on that.
op 64 nr 2 is just the best.
Tyrone? Hmm Mandingo anyone like wtf? Chaing must be Bruce Lee huh?
"At least these pricks care enough about my pussy... To be an asshole about my dick!" I think I love you. Also Ollie is lovely in this
Thanks for this video. I used to frequent /tttt/ in my pre transition days. You nailed it perfectly and I can't believe I so willingly subjected myself to such a toxic place.
w e  l i v e  i n  a  s o c i e t y
Contra made a video, now I can be happy again!
i feel like my life was immeasurably happier when i didnt know where the term roastie came from
I love the point about "masochistic epistemology". I'd never heard that term before but I've definitely noticed myself thinking in that way before, not to incel levels but still. I wonder why it's so weirdly seductive.
Little do they know men are genetically speaking a incomplete human. This is coming from a bisexual capable young man who doesn’t even have the conviction to begging to understand incels.
im sorry but can we please talk about the lighting in this video? im gagged GAGGED
i swear i had the exact same thought about elliot rodger being lowkey hot
*starts plotting how to get the salty embrace of the sea to be the next great meme*
Hey I'm back,  just watching this video for the 5th time
Last week I was talking to my friend online about how it was the first time I heard of "incels" and today, this video was suggested me. I subscribed to you 8 mins in. The quality and the presentation and the way you break down and explain your points have me hooked. Also, your make up is insanely beautiful.  So happy for Youtube's algorithm for once!
Baltimore is a Devine city... I see what you did there. I’m sad to learn that one of our other cultural exports has been turned into a self loathing slur :(
Am I the only one, or do other people also experience headache onsets due to the cuts mid word and music notes?  I love the content, also really appreciated the explicit caparison between the unhealthy self-harm of incels and transpeople (had suspected things like this)! The half-way counterpoint between mocking and empathy-explanation was a bit unexpected but might be effective??  So thanks *+ContraPoints* ! But the cuts were really jarring :(
beaches werent ready
Ahahaha degeneracy, the nature way of telling you not to replicate. Wonderful
They are not going to say 33:06. They are going to say that you are a trans-woman because if you "remained a man" you would be an incel due to your body structure. Your very existence would prove their point that being a woman is better/easier than being a man. I would not be surprised if a new train of thought pops up that, instead of the three options you listed at 11:00, there would now be four. The extra one being becoming a trans-woman.
As someone who has always been single and alone I damn near slipped into the incel ideology. I think this video is really on point. At some point I realised that I was using my anger and loneliness as a form of self harm.  Also if you need to make massive generalisations to support your theory it's probably bullshit. The becky/stacy/chad and what ever else are exactly this and the reason I ran away from something that I initially thought was a support group for lonely people.
This is my new favourite YouTube channel!
You’re gonna fuck the ocean, aren’t you?
As a Chad myself, I have to admit that stealing girls from Incels is fun and easy with my superior skull and wrists.
Is that the guy from philosophy tube reading the incel erotic fiction in the beginning of the ep?
The Seaaaaaaaaaa ☺️
Natalie the hon thing. Omg. You helped me so much. You have no idea. Thank you. <3
I have never watched your videos before but the was great and I love you?? 10/10 would get enveloped by the dark briny mistress.
Thanks for venturing into such dark territory with your usual insight, and for always being courageous in relating your personal experience. These guys are so obsessed with hierarchy! I guess they need that for the world to make sense. It's also why they're terrified of things like fat acceptance and the fading of a culturally assumed gender binary; it means the hierarchy is just made up in everyone's heads like any social construct. Rather than grow up and face this they put on their little lab coats and try to assert objectivity. Your appeal to these guys to log off is great, I hope it reaches some of em. They're torturing themselves for no reason. Life is hard enough already. Thanks for the video. Be well.
Honestly think we look for abusive comments as an unhealthy way of doing something ironically healthy.  I don't think I could have got over some of my self loathing without amplifying it and fully exploring it.  One outcome of wading fully into self hatred can be that you get so used to the language of it that it loses some power when you repeat self hating beliefs.  I think shame and self hate is empowered by a belief or hope that the self hating language we use isn't true, and that's why, to some, the reinforcement of "everything you believe about yourself is true" can be useful.  You need to learn who *you* are, not who you're programmed to be ashamed of not being, and I think fully embracing your inability to be that person can help some people.  Unfortunately, this cure seems to be worse than the disease for others.  Perhaps there should be some kind of pagan burial ritual we can call on to mourn that invented ghost, and maybe it would help some people move on.
a Youtube video shouldn't be allowed to be this good
Another excellent video. Not really much more to add as i feel you covered this topic in-depth on the important points i have noticed as well :)
i need a Masculine Alpha bread-science cookbook and for Natalie to make an Ocean ASMR channel
The skull-people are in my head, THEY'RE IN MY FUCKING HEAD!
Your video and Aydin Paladin's video on incels has been rather fair and accurate on the prognosis of incels.  Although yours is more accurate and entertaining here talks more about social isolation and is loaded with data.
Is there an uncensored version of that first bit? I know it's kiiiinda the joke but I need it for... personal reasons.
Ugh you're so hot it's distracting. Awesome video!
That opening by Olly; I was like the old land lady from Get Carter - tipping back and forth in her rocking chair with the groinal strain of listening to Michael Caine down the hallway giving phone sex to his lady friend. <3
This is the first time I saw one of your videos and I just wanted to say that you look exactly like a woman, I honestly didnt notice until you said you were. Good luck : )
What you said about mental self harm really resonated with me, as someone who is guilty of the same thing. It actually kind of inspired me to try being nicer to myself. So thank you for that ❤️.  Also you're fucking gorgeous, I'm not being fake nice, I'm genuinely astounded
I’m so in love w the style of ur videos please keep up the awesome work I can’t w8 to see more
You can red pilled and and be MGTOW.
b r e a d  s c i e n t i s t
*THE ASMR*
ΞＮＦ♢ＲＣΣ░Ｍ♢Ｎ♢ＧΛＭＹ
i have never seen your channel before and I thank the youtube gods you were recommended to me.
If there were youtube elections, I'd vote for you. Obviously not for the top job, as that would have be given to someone with a more pronounced brow.
DOST THOU BLEED I need that tshirt NOW
Now I wanna go for a swim!
this is like one of your best videos <3
5:52 that's basically Sam Smith and he's not a virgin.
The Alt-Right/Incel connection is blatant. Use of the "Red Pill" and "Black Pill" also the need to classify people and a belief in unchangeable characteristics that are easily applied to large groups of people.
I don't speak Punjabi but I'm reasonably certain Chadpreet would be a girl's name
"Imagine how a woman feels" - ironic.
Spank me mommy
Sure, sure... Only a Stacy like ContraPoints would make such a video.
Maybe the TERFS are the thorn in Contra Points paw. The TERFS can injure an Action Flower too, but not so grieviously as they can injure a Contra Points. And never mind the TERFS, think of the old cis Church going women and the Petersonian men. So lividly enraged by the very existence of Natalie that they must needs deny her reality. Right? Bigots. Correct? Well maybe. Maybe some, some of the time. Only God knows. It is an answer. It is PART of the answer, some of the people, some of the time. Is that answer enough all of the time. What if SOME of them only wanted the best for Natalie. What if they wondered if Natalie could still be Natalie with or without surgery. What if surgery were not the answer to everything? What if love....( hard headed, uncucked, wee hours of the morning)...love that seeks for Eliot Rodger as sure as it seeks for Action Flower and Contra Points were not the answer, but maybe a good question? Peace. Out.
Me, a Russian student: agitryor ? rolitgtsyo ? Natalie pls
This makes me view these people in a whole new way. Always love your videos Contra. So artistic and hilarious.
To be honest, the Becky looks more attractive than the Stacy.
Didn't get a notification despite the bell being fully dinged - YouTube you fuckers
Ooooof I really hope no cis people start using hun
The fucked thing is, the first few bullet points on “the black pill” kind of fit how I feel about myself. I don’t hate or blame women, but I do believe I’m unlovable by anyone because I’m ugly, mentally ill, and poor. I’ve been in relationships before and I know that a lot of this is in my own head, but I am clinically depressed and so I tend to lean towards self loathing. Like, a lot. I can’t really break myself out of this because it is a prison of my own making. It was much better when I could afford therapy, but now I don’t even have health insurance.  On a more uh chipper note, I loved the video and you are the best, Contra.
I had previously posted years ago on your videos that I cannot stand you. This functionally changed every bit of that. I think part of it is that I have opened more, but most of it is that you are far better at explaining your view with combined common sense and related subjects, as well as the hard research you've been known for. What's interesting is to see this humanity in you that I remember not seeing in your work before.  I've recently found myself in this position of sharing certain ideologies about myself as incels do, though I've never engaged with these groups at all. In fact, in 35 minutes, you quite easily confirmed my suspicion that I have male friends who are definitely incel-material, if not already secretly part of those communities. I also tend to sympathize and seek out these guys as dates or partners, maybe because I feel that misery loves company. You not only made it clear to me that I do think this way, that it's both unacceptable but understandable based on my obsessive focus on a limited set of experiences and extrapolations to catastrophe, but also that I really need to disconnect from people I use to shape my self-perception in this way. I'm not blaming my mother, sister, certain friends or past partners, but I think I've internalized a lot of misandry at myself and a lot of self-admonishment around physical and mental attractiveness and "compatibility". These people provide an endless stream of comments that I readily fashion into reinforcements for my own self-"incel-dom".  I want to thank you for making this video. I also want to point out that I think the MRA-movement needs to do a better job of distinguishing the misogyny from discussions focused on issues affecting men. It's turned into a glossed slope, where one person, like myself, can start out wanting to be active to reduce male suicide, substance abuse and self-harm, yet over time find ourselves internalizing tolerance for broadly misogynistic, cult-like mentalities, simply because we can get there in multiple small steps of empathy. For example, one of my closest (and soon-to-be not) friends is someone I've paid ear-service to for rants on women reflective of incels' comments, rather than make it clear to him that it's his philosophy on relationships which is ultimately incompatible with most women. I've even openly suggested allowing him to use me for sexual release. How absurd that I would not only allow but *crave* to have a "friend" use my body as his stress release/receptacle for a ridiculous, self-imposed sexual frustration with women?  Worse, I see similar behaviours (though far less pronounced) in myself: I justify smoking cigarettes as a defence against "judgmental people"; I justify not exercising as a defence against "vain people"; I deliberately avoid watching films like Call Me By Your Name or Love, Simon because I obsess over how I could never be physically attractive enough, or financially well-off enough, or have enough achievements/certificates/degrees to be good enough to experience desirability in someone for me. These all "prime" me for being an incel, like getting an e-meter reading is one step in the door for Scientology.  You're right, though. If I don't disconnect and make a willful effort to accept my appearance or work deliberately to improve it where I am dissatisfied and have control, I will continue self-loathing and eventually find myself (again) on the phone to a "sui hotline." Similarly, I've known there's a reason I can't listen to Antony and the Johnsons anymore but I'm suddenly realizing that it's not because I have better things today than I did then, but that I don't want to look at myself as a fixed result that equates to "fail" in many socially important areas of life.
guys I have no personality and treat everyone like shit why can't I get a girlfriend reeeeeeeeeeee
First time I see on of your videos, and...........wtf?
Another brilliant video. Natalie just gets better and better each time.  I'm also glad she took the time to empathize with Incels while explaining the poison of their ideology, she is in a unique position to relate to some of what they feel. I also completely agree that there is nothing wrong with most of them that is not fixable if they can ever escape their cycle of self loathing, loathing of women and society in general.
"The Chad" that was the funniest thing I've heard in a while.
Woah that intro gave me the creeps. Inch thick goosebumps on my arms.
Bread scientist!!😆
I don't get the point around 18:45. Could somebody please help me out?
ah ah very much so 7/7 would be miserable again
Lindsay's Q&A led me to this channel and I'm super glad it did
my tumblr has been passed around a bit on reddit threads like /r/tumblrinaction and sometimes i google my url to see what people are saying about me. a lot of the stuff they bring up was made back when i was in my kin phase so it doesnt apply to me anymore but... somehow i am still drawn to reading threads mocking me and stuff like that. i dont know why but sometimes i still get the urge to go check
More on that old old old grumpy Canadian problem that's noat my idea eh:- Contra ( the very opposite of Incel in either gender because, not fair, privilege etc etc etc ) proffers an olive branch of Petersonian counsel to sinful suffering failing men. It is empathy, it is identification, it is love, but also TRUTH, so it stings a bit. Androcles, leave that bear's paw alone, cos that is a wounded cornered bear. Expect wounded rage from those you try to heal....a clue you might be on to something...X ( the cross) marks the spot eh? It's a proablem eh (maple leafs, Mike Myers). So ...love. Yeah. Good stuff. A gift freely given with no thought of reward. What gift might an Action Flower proffer to a Contra Points? What gift not tainted with self regard and psychological projection? Well, that's a proablem eh? You feel my pain, and I'll feel yours is the idea. Tricky one that. We are all bears with a thorn in the paw.
Thanos is a incel
I was waiting for this one, its great as always you degenerate scum <3
"VOLCEL if you wouldn't!!!!"    This made my day.  Thank you so much
Femoids? Srsly? HAHAHAHAHA
you are challenging my straight beliefs : D Amazing video!
and now I'm really glad that I like women
You know you’re genuinely hilarious, right? Like hoooooly shit, I’m snorting.
Such a funny vid! I enjoyed it thank you! 😂
Also sucks that this group is linked to the other groups who deny that mental illnesses like depression and anxiety can't be willed out of, don't exist, or that people need to die if they have them. That's a lot of hurdles to get over in a row just to stop being a dick.
You’re the best. The best of the best. The very bestest leftist YouTuber.
That was a really good analysis I couldn't fault you sharing this around
"whatever hurts is true"I have never heard it put this way and it is so painfully accurate it hurts
First time viewer, new sub here!  I don't read incel forums, but during the video I realized I have thought patterns eerily similar to what you displayed here (For some context I have a history of depression, anxiety and suicidal thoughts). I am an incel in the sense that I am involuntarily celibate, but I never blamed it on women, I blame it on myself and my physical fitness and personality. Hearing you talk about all of that in the video really helped put some things into perspective, especially the digital self-harm. I am aware of my insecurities and make jokes about them, but the more I work on them the more apparent they become. Anyway, what I want to say is Thank you so very much for this video, it really helped me understand parts of my thought process that I hadn't considered.   On another note, you are lovely and if my opinion counts for anything I think you look lovely and was surprised when you said you were trans, the thought hadn't crossed my mind until you said it. Much love and again, thank you for the video
ContraPoints is bae - and for the record I say that because I'd love to date ya, not cuz you're a hun OuO
Can Incels change themselves through guidance ?
Meh. I don't find it that surprising or interesting that socially inept men are often resentful of women. It's kind of typical. Women get resentful and stereotype men when they fail to actualize their own ideal relationships as well. It's not surprising that young unfuckable men act even worse considering that their resentful celibacy is combined with testosterone. I mean how would anyone feel if they were an adult virgin terrified of engaging the opposite sex? probably not mentally healthy. these guys are losers and they know it.
Hey there. I've watched a good number of your videos now, having discovered you a couple of months ago.  You are smart and funny as fuck.  And I'm a straight guy who thinks you're not only charming, but downright gorgeous.  Seriously.  You look so damned good in this video, like my "dream woman!"  :-)
Incels make a big deal over me and my relationship with shoe. I feel bad for Incels and do my best to help those who ask me advice, but there is a skull-level immovable attitude towards themselves. (Edit) A lot of the things you brought up relate directly to the MGTOW community aswell. It has become a club for men who have voluntarily given up on themselves and refuse to self-reflect.
great video, your summarization and analysis of the incel/tttt community were great, but also harrowing. I really think you should read aksel sandemose's novel "A fugitive crosses his tracks" it is a book where the term "janteloven" or the law of jante originates from. A term that is very apropos for these communities.
Is this a real woman ?
Their motto should be, "fuck women." Geddit? Cause they're not, and they blame women. It's a pun, you see? Yes I'm single, why?
Seeing this more nuanced opinion on incels has sorta shifted my view of them. I guess they need help. Theyre already put down enough by themselves. They dont need a chad thundercock making fun of them.
I want to hate you. Ideologically we are so opposed, that I expected to hate every second of this video. In reality I actually laughed out loud a couple of times, was pleasantly surprised by your wit and almost fell for the whole woman act.
AN EMINENTLY BANGABLE TWINK
I am so confused about the reddit post at the start of the video. One of the censored words is like 14 letters long and I cant for the life of me even guess what word it was. Can someone please help lol
I think I need to think about my life now. Thanks.
You re a really great YouTuber
Thank you.  I'm not one (only by the grace of my particular brand of self-loathing, which would never allow me to think that I'm entitled to anything, and that removes a pretty essential pillar of that whole worldview), but I could have been, and it warms my sad little excuse for a heart that somebody took the time to look at this as a human issue that doesn't universally and uniformly cast these people as the worst organisms on the face of the planet.  I'm pretty fatalistic about their situation, because I don't really think they're in a place where they CAN be helped until they decide that they want to be, and they've incorporated not wanting to be into their very identities, but I like to at least hope that if other folks could approach that hive of killer bees with this kind of attitude, it might be possible to rescue at least a few of them.  You've really made me feel like there's a chance the world can improve.
Oh fuck, that was hard to watch. Reminded me a lot of myself back in the days...
"Alright calm down lesbian stans" lmao you got me
This is great, not seen your work before but I love how you went in-depth with this. Also didn't clock you were trans until you mentioned you transitioning. Keep up the good work, and good luck with your luxury car payments
So worth the wait for a new ContraPoints vid!
I think one reason for "digital self harm" is that people need to integrate and validate their insecurity.  Your insecurities are as much a part of you as anything else, and finding somebody who confirms them can feel good on a certain level.  What's needed is a way to confirm they are real concerns... but also not insurmountable or universal obstacles.  In the cases discussed here, I think a big part of the problem is assuming all women have the same tastes in men, and so "no woman will ever"...
I think the analogy between incels and early transition trans women on 4chan is apt, but only to an extent - the hatret present in incel communities is largely something they bring on themselves, whereas the ridiculous amounts of self hate in /lgbt/ is largely brought upon them by outside society. Kinda feel like this is something to consider tbh.
Brb gonna fuck the sea
The are men who bake, they are called bakers. There are men whomcook, they're called cooks. There are men who sew, they are called sewists or sometimes tailors,  there are men who do all sorts of things! Gardening, painting, pottery, writing poetry, all sorts of things.
Loved this! Although, I love most of your content, but that’s beside the point. I, too, find the sound of rainstorms quite pleasing. Especially thunder and lightning. Puts me right to sleep. Thank you for a great breakdown of the incel thing. Loves. :)
well, now I'm glad I curved all those nerds in high school
"so many mass murderers" = literally 2 mass murderers who literally never opened an incel forum in their lives.
Just so as not to be abjectly and cravenly ( and suspiciously) laudatory of Contra all the time...let's try a bit of harsh and wounding critique. Here goes. Blunt uncuck tell it like it is mode ensues:- Ahem. Contra is was and always shall be an individual as remarkable and as delightful as any other in most respects and more so in many. " God given gifts" is the scary triggering phrase here. Beauty, both inner and outer and moral and physical...expressed via whatsoever gender persona...deeply charming either way. And that, my dear, is a privilege. Harsh truth. William Blake..." Every morn and every night etc etc" go look it up again. It is not FAIR. And maybe Beautiful Stacey lies with a broken neck in the stairwell of her Oxford College dorm...never good enough. And maybe rugged Chad is bound in mind forged manacles the world can never see. Nothing in life is fair. No one is normal. See, THAT is the Peterson message. It's old old old man...it's noat my idea eh? It's a proablem eh? It's OLDER than Christianity. Maple syrup, Mounties, ice hockey, small c conservatism, old folks with old fashioned ideas...y'know? Contra ( anyone) else can only hope to burnish old ideas with the vivid lustre of 2018. GOOD stuff though. Sincere thanks. Peace. Out for now.
If you need someone to degrade you and cut you deep cut oh so deep with their words get at me contra nobody will cut you deeper then 😍👀😂
Hey girl, I'd totally take you to a concert on a first date. I might even stand next to you! I would also be glad that the music would drown out conversation and take up the quiet space between moments, alieviating the anxiety of trying to have conversations. This is because I am super shy and prone to preformance social anxiety. I know this is weak game. I am sorry.
Being a woman looking for men on Tinder is like being anyone looking for games on Steam
This is a really interesting subject. Women are told their body neuroses are external, i.e unobtainable beauty standards through adverts etc., but as women hold the cards in the dating pool (they can still get laid), their issues don't turn into pathologies.  Do some men now have an unrealistic beauty standard themselves (7:35). Interestingly, if this was a woman complaining about her thigh circumference I think we'd all be more sympathetic to her. Is this reinforcing gender stereotypes that men should "man up" and deal with their issues internally?   (I know these incels have said and done horrible things but I think a fair chunk may actually have body dysmorphia.)  What a strange and fascinating world we live in.
4:32 into this video and I already have heard enough to realize that the author is not actually interested in learning about the subject, but only to mock and bully incels to feel superior to them. I was hoping for an honest discussion or analysis of the subject. Nope. Next time listen to an incel instead of coming into an argument biased af.
17:30 w o w I never would have guessed
I chuckled at the thought of a firing squad of dicks
Why can't we just enforce monogamy to magically cure all incels?
I’d LOVE to see your content staged in a theatrical setting
I think I need to be baptized after watching this
At least there are some genuinely clever and ironic uses of the Virgin vs Chad memes. If only Incels used that meme for hyperbole and jokes instead of gospell.
I really like the content, but that voice is just...grating.
Incredibly smart analysis of the incel community.
YUS!!  Bread science is on the rise!!
I think pretending to be a girl is weirder than being a loser virgin
Stop pretending to be a woman, because you are not a woman. And will always be a man. Until the day you die.
Your humor leaves me laughing and uncomfortable.
Better and better stuff every time from contra points. See , this is what the left ( and the right, and the centre, and all of us ) so desperately need...grace, and wit, and sobriety, and a presumption of the same from some people some of the time...just for the sake of argument. Without such things, no argument ensues, only rancour and tedium and a loveless world. So much good stuff here. No.1 Masochistic Epistemology...ha! Yes! I am totally stealing that. No.2 again with the humility and the sobriety..never get enough of that. No.3 the healthy introspection and the healthy (non prurient) empathy. Good stuff. More comment ensues in another comment box, this one getting crowded...
Comtarrr, I love you.
Tag yourself I'm the inherent eroticism of the sea
Great music! Loving the Mendelssohn in particular.  Also I'm pretty sure there is a Carter clip? but I'm probably wrong
Though I have some knowledge of these internet neighborhoods, I still had to look up "volcel if you wouldn't"... and, I totally would.
One of your finest uploads so far! Serious, humorous, and potentially life saving for those who would listen. You're a star for doing this. On a tangent, I remember in the 90:s when boys who had gotten a little lost out in economically disfavoured towns here on the westcoast in Sweden (i'm sure this was a pattern on other places too) would psych each others into normalizing violence (also targeting members within the group) in the WP skinhead culture. Incels are sort of doing that too, but the pattern seems more directly self-harming. Else, a lot of the patterns coincide. Catastrophization, a deterministic, unchangeable victimhood, abusive behaviours, and occasional lashouts against whoever fits the description of their hate object in a "if i cannot win, i can at least have revenge" pattern. Incels seem to be a growing form of the day, but i'm starting to wonder if there is a wider sociological pattern.
Firstly, I just want to say that you are absolutely stunning.  I've never watched you before and loved this video.  You are awesome! PS. I hope you might come to realise that you are absolutely perfect the way you are and don't need to change a thing. <3
What do you mean your "transition is going well"? You do not sound nor do you look like a cis-female.
Incels are people who weaponize their "celibacy" into misogyny and right-wing politricks. Sadly, since the radical left are also massive irrational, totalitarian collectivist bullies, they also lump in men (never women, of course) with serious mental/and or physical disabilities in with this crowd. Fuck you. What we need is more healthcare, compassion and support. And less politricks.
I really don't get this type of  Thinking when I've  Had terrible experiences   With  Dating but  I've realized It has more to do with my self confidence and my general  Unwillingness to do anything for me and I was like a lot of these guys at 1st when I was younger but as I grew older I realized I just need to be more relaxed and just talk in a generally just goes a lot better If anyone   Gets this  message Please pass it on to and incel
You're a treasure of the internet Natalie. I'd bet good money that your videos actually help people solve real problems. I know they would have been welcome help for me back in high school when I was a self loathing, closeted gayfag in chad's clothing, so to speak. Also, it might not be for me to tell you so but please don't shave any bone off of that beautiful skull of yours. Your look fucking great.
Sad thing is the pics for that stacy-becky comparison are from a random transformation fetish comic from deviantart
This is art
We live in a society...
Should there be a term for liberal incels? The ones who cant get laid but use feminism as a way to woo women.
this is such a fantastic video. so well researched and thought out and really has so much insight into how they got as bad as they did. it’s hard to sympathise with them at all but you’ve done such a great job of explaining how regular lonely men can become so evil. i really wish some of them would be able to give a video like this a chance, rather than watching it through the weird defensive filter they’ve built up, because i really think it could save some of them. they won’t be helped until they want to be helped though, like you said.  ps love the bisexual lighting!!!
theres not many things i prefer over a freshly wettened hot pavement.
Holy shit I knew it. I had weird vibes from the get-go. Of COURSE you're a dude.   I'm watching a mentally-damaged individual trying to explain other mentally-damaged individuals to me. Heh.  EDIT: and kind of shit research, there, since, yes incels exist and so do MGTOWs, pickup artists, blabla, but The Red Pill is another group again, separate from all the others. They think incels and MGTOWs and PUAs are pathetic, they do believe in hypergamy and shit like alpha fux beta bux etc., that women in general act a certain way, but they work on themselves to "win" at this game. Not like PUAs, who use crappy tactics and cosmetic changes, but to change themselves to be better than what they are, according to their standards (get a good job, work out, be sociable and charismatic/confident, etc). Believe me, I've looked at every group here during my internet addict days, and the red pill is/was certainly worth a mention. Think they also don't believe in marriage or serious commitment, or at least they didn't years back.
The Nazis were also obsessed with aryan and jewish skull shapes. We can conclude whenever somebody brings up skulls to back up their world view, they must be full of shit.
The femoids are the problem.  Every time I go to a singles event all the femoids are fat.  I keep telling the women that they have to have a real tight body.  I am talking like Madonna tight.
Alternate theory: “The vast majority of people will get whatever they can take, and take whatever they can get.”
to the male gender: YOU ARE NOT ENTITLED TO SEX! GET THIS THROUGH YOUR HEADS!
You’ve got a good point on how women generally have it easier on dating apps but also keep in mind that not all women are at least moderately attractive. And I mean of course you’re getting a fuck ton of msgs, you’re hot af, I say this since I remember a time when Blair White said that trans people have nothing to complain about when it comes to bathrooms, dating, discrimination...etc; but the issue with that is that she never took her passing or in relevance to my point, her attractiveness into account when speaking about relationships.
guys are so stupid, they're obscessed with sex, as if having sex = the most AMAZING EVENT EEVVEERRRRRR!!!!!....it's not -.- ...and you're lame, get a life guys, really.
Hey Natalie. This is gonna come across as extremely ignorant, arrogant and a little bit "black pill-y", but that's not how I mean it. I would suggest to you not to "cut off" your dick if it's still functional. Especially if you're still sometimes attracted to women. Yes, having a fuck hole might be closer to being a "real" woman, but how much closer really? It's never gonna be the thing you're aiming for. I mean, "shooting for the stars to maybe get to the moon" is ok in many cases, but you're giving up something valuable in the process: a perfectly fine dick. I don't know much about the lgbt scene, but I can imagine there are girls and guys who like or are at least ok with dating and fucking chicks with dicks. I don't know what it's like to be transgender, but I don't think I'd pay others to reshape my body using sharp tools to appear more like what society told me a woman should be. I hope you'Re really really sure about this. But in any case I wish you all the best. Thx for this great channel.
I vote Democratic ; but I prefer to not have Conservative heterosexuality explained to me by a transexual in drag .
wait.. so youre not a tranny?
What I'm finding fascinating is that certain incel terms exist outside the incel-sphere. Myself and my circle are young hispanic professionals who go out, were involved in mulitcultural greek orgs in college. When we call people Chad, Brad, and Stacey, we are referring to basic, preppy white individuals who are generally good looking but completely generic and interchangable in most aspects. Just a thought.
Chadpreet hahahahaahhahaahaha
Dear Queen: the next time you feel only pain can hold truth, think about how much you love cats, a good strong cheese, or whatever it is you unequivocally love. If that love you hold is true and good and wonderful, then clearly not all painful things are true.  More importantly, how the fuck can I get my eye make up to look like yours??? You should work a makeup tutorial into the narrative of your vids so the rest of us who have the patience of a hungry infant can pretend we can so TOO blend!!!!!
I KNOW THIS IS A CHANNEL FOR INTELLECTUAL DISCUSSIONS But I NEED A MAKEUP TUTORIAL FOR THIS LOOK  You're g l o w i n g
Three things that really annoy me about these guys. First, why form your entire identity around not being able to get a date? Okay, you're unattractive... but what are you, besides that? Or is that the only thing in your life that's worth mentioning? The one your entire existence revolves around?   Second, notice how the archetype they simultaneously idolize and despise, this ''Chad'', has no meaningful, lasting relationships... only inconsequential sex. What does that tell you about them? They don't want love or relationships that they complain about not being able to get - they want to be Chad. Which brings me to the third point.  They see the world in a ludicrously black and white manner: to them, the only people that exist are Chads and incels. Let alone the fact that in reality such people barely exist: Chads, as described by them barely make up a tiny percentage of ''alpha'' males, and incels barely make up a tiny percentage of ''omega'' males; the rest (over 99%) are just... normal people. And even with those who more or less fit their archetypes (of whom I've barely met a handful in my entire life), things are usually more complex than they seem on the surface. The ''Chads'' actually tend to be emotional and vulnerable once you befriend them and they let go of the ''image'', and the ''incels'' usually end up being extremely isolated due to early childhood problems like parental neglect and/or harassment, and not genetics and ''skulls''.    Also, 20:50 was pure brilliance. :D
That last bit about the eroticism of the ocean (which I entirely agree with. Oceanus is hawt) could be construed as endorsing Ophelia syndrome. Basically it's the ending of "The Awakening", and we don't actually want the incels to sui in the ocean.
Wait why is Jordan Peterson a sexist now? First time I've seen Natalie make such a claim without examples...
Not incel but its incestuous cousin, MGTOW:  https://writing809.wordpress.com/2018/07/27/dog-scooting-and-mgtow-or-whatever-identity-attachment-you-choose/  Incels even condemn the Fleshlight out of black-pilled principle and self-loathing.
*ContraPoints posted a new video* - Oh, oh my !
"the manosphere exists because rock n roll is dead" LMAO im obsessed w u
Always a pleasure to watch your videos and I've enjoyed how educational this one was. It's a terrifying trend with real, fatal world consequences. I feel better equipped now, thank you.
You assume I don't listen. I've done so for 35 minutes. You assume I'll insult you. I won't. Unfortunately none of this will change female entitlement or their demand for Chad, so I'll continue to be Incel no matter what.
So what if you're a Hon? The Hons sacked Rome. What have Chads ever done? There is a whole country named after them, and it's not doing so well. So much for Chad supremacy. #honpower
The best Youtuber out there. Good job!
What I find the most interesting is how that same kind of "catastrophising" happens in communist and other far leftist boards.
The problem with ContraPoints is that you can only see your score after you beat the level or die.
I'm going to Baltimore just to scroll tinder because of this! Hopefully you like Bisexual semi-Masc Twinks! Excellent Video, good luck Comrade!
Why can't I like this multiple times???
i've heard about contrapoints for a while and this is the first video i've seen and oh my god it's lived up to all of the hype you are incredible
Going into the mind of an incel is like going into a haunted house that was moved to an indian burial ground that was used as a nuclear test site.
Thank you for sharing your experience as a trans woman! Really helped me gain insight and understanding :)
4:03 I thought I was tripping balls for a second, I literally spent over a year having my piano instructor beg me to practice this Chopin piece, but I hardly ever did so I never learned it completely and it haunts me now—it’s literally haunting me lmao
JFC, you just described my co worker!
Well, since we're already talking about tinder I might as well post my profile here. Who knows what might come of it. http://tinder.com/@swooned
You look so pretty omg!!
Fucking Verner Von Braun is such a dipshit
These guys aren't looking for companionship, they are just looking for someone to stick their dick into, which is completely fine, but they also hate woman... it makes things harder. As a friend once say "men hate women, they love their dicks".
You need to tone it down with the fucking drag make-up. You're just giving more fodder to TERFs when they say transwomen are just poorly imitating a caracature of women.
GodDAMN that's a lot of patrons. Did you have that many when I first started watching your vids six months ago?
why do i really want to sprint naked into the ocean now...
You know what's fucking *weird*?  There's no way I would have found out about Contra if it weren't for online/twitter culture. I feel it's the space where this kind of channel gets the most air to breathe. And even though living in that space means that every incentive is pushing me towards hating her (because I'm center-right), I just adore this channel. Feels like every argument is built on good faith, every bit written with love and every video given the utmost care and attention.  I find that whenever people in different political islands start showing any semblance of good will towards the other, it's only a matter of time before the differences become intolerable (Eiynah and Christopher Picciolini's recent disparaging of Sam Harris comes to mind) - unless one of the parties moves towards the other's political orientation (which is what happened to David Sherratt). But with Contra, this just doesn't seem to happen. Watching her videos doesn't necessarily change my political opinion (although I'm sure it does that to many others), just seems to make it more robust and widen my worldview. I think our discourse desperately needs more people of this sort. Even Sargon doesn't dislike her (from what I've seen, at least).  Keep this shit up, Natalie. You're a gleaming lighthouse in the stormy ocean of diarrhea that is online socio-political discourse.
"What is it with you people and skulls?"  Oh my fucking gawd!
Seeing you make even a single comment on your 'micky mouse' voice voice broke my heart. You're voice is stellar, I wish you could read me bedtime stories.
SO glad you did this.  I don't know if you saw but Tim Squirrell is a Ph.D. candidate who works on digital communities. He did a three-part blog about the history of incels. Turns out, the whole "looks matter most," was an idea that won out of a debate of whether looks or personality won.  In conclusion, he said incel culture is at best competitive victimhood. https://www.timsquirrell.com/blog/
I'm always surprised by how neutral you can be talking about things most people on your side of the political compass regard with nothing but hatred. I lost my virginity at 23 and while I never identified as an incel because I never went on incel forums, I still ended up basically being blackpilled by my own brain. It's a scary place to be, and it's never approached with the care it deserves by most people talking about the subject.  That said I don't see how Jordan Peterson is a sexist old man, I've never seen any evidence to suggest that. I'm not even a member of the cult of Jordan Peterson, I've disagreed with him before, but there's nothing about him that's inherently sexist. All he's really done is act as a father figure for a generation of boys who never had one.
I think the delicious irony that so far all the adds for this video have been for match.com is *chef's kiss* sublime.
Omg, i cant believe it. A new video ❤❤❤
Oh my god phrenologist Nat
Your channel is fucking incredible.  Good luck in all your endeavors.
I’m so glad you explained cyber self harm. Honestly I was stumped for a while on why tinder consists of so many shitty opening messages that just beg to be rejected in some colourful way. I wanted to know what the point of it was. As someone in the bdsm community I saw it as somewhat masochistic but it seemed so wide spread to be a kink. Cyber self harm makes a lot of sense.
You look like Winona Rider though! :D
18:05 See this right here is it. I personally feel blessed that I am not myself in a position of involuntary celibacy, and in a lot of ways have been pretty lucky, but I still can't help but feel for these dudes. I'm an 18 year old guy who has a girlfriend currently and has had his fair share of relationships, but I'm surrounded by friends who many of whom haven't had a single partner in their lives. So hearing this shit about Tinder after seeing similar situations and social norms in my own experience, I cannot help but feel angry and hopeless on their behalf. I don't know, as much as I wish someone would tell me that an Incel's perception of dating norms is completely delusional does trouble me now and then; I just better hope I never stoop to their level of apathy.
Well done....again. Ps you look fabulous.
"bread scientist" that is unreal lmfao
Hmmmm... Don't open with panty sniffing! Who would've thought!? Thanks, Contra!
Me and my NB constant dysphoric face really appreciate your general existence.
Honestly over time the extreme voiceover voice got kinda distracting from what was being read
my meme made it in this video. i have officially made it
Okay, I think I've just realized that I only ever want to feel the embrace of the sea on my body and nothing else.
I wonder how LGBT+ people fit into their system but I’m too afraid to look it up
This is such a good video! I've heard of incels before but you really broke it down in a very reasonable way. I especially like the analogy to the experiences of trans women. Keep up the great work!
Help me, I made a batch of cookies 3 months ago and now I have 5 sets of leggings and short-shorts, and long for that fantastic top that I can't afford but if I could it would make my look complete.
"Volcel if you wouldn't" lol, got them there
please tell them that some women like nerds and hate chads, PLEASE!
This is a great video, it complements Count Dancula's video quite nice.
Yo, you're pretty af <3
I just wanna say this video was amazing from start to finish. Congrats Natalie!
Contra Confirmed for Tidesage of Kul Tiras.
I love you all. 💜 ♥️
Elliot Rodger's problem was that he had a sexual obsession with his step-mother and Asian concepts of the superiority of the eldest son in the family environment. He frequently makes lascivious references to his step-mother and no doubt, other women were not as interesting to him as she was, except perhaps those in magazines and porn sites (which is kinda what these dudes seem to be displaying).  They are aiming too high because they feel these 'perfect-looking' women are the only surrogate for the woman really want - who is likely unobtainable due to social norms (a friend's mother, a hot cousin, a teacher etc). What better surrogate for an unobtainable woman than unobtainable women (plural). Their abject despair and lack of hope, unwillingness to alter and improve their appearance - that's what doesn't make sense. They've made a pride movement that reinforces their lack of pride - much like 'White Privlege' spouting white kids. Self-destructive.... guilt-based!! Which further adds to the idea that the problem is that they are in love with one particular individual who they really shouldn't be thinking about in that way. I mean I could be totally wrong but that's how it seems to me.
This is the best political content on the internet i kinda miss the savage old‘n days but I like how informative the newer ones are.
22:22 ... please do ASMR 😂
Bone structure does matter.
Well met, yet again.  Also, please share all the details of your musical citations c:
HBombs last video blew me away. Now this. New heights were reached.
You look like that female 30 year old boomer meme, just without the sunglasses
the bread guy, omg, is this the person they look up to?
The 'fin' at the end put tears in my eyes. Keep doing what you're doing.
I really hope you went to your consultation dressed like that.
"ＩＭＡＧＩＮＥ　ＨＯＷ　Ａ　ＷＯＭＡＮ　ＦＥＥＬＳ" . . . . . . . AS I STAB HER TO DEATH....  Sincerly, No life LOW SELF ESTEEM INCEL.
And to think I was this close to becoming an incel, oooohhhh boy.
All this talk about huns is reminding me of my visit 2 the occupied six counties. Kah
Imagine killing people because you couldn't get laid like?????????
Why to the first part contra 😷🤢🤮
I have no idea how this got into my feed but it is interesting. Simply because I did not know anything about this and usually try to stay out of the loop of the divide and conquer spectrum in society. Actually, I try to stay out of everything in society that leads to destroying the connection to the true self. But after watching this I wonder what others would consider me as in the divide and conquer paradigm. About 2 years back I had a spiritual awakening that woke me up to all sorts of things. Before that, I was in all kinds of different relationships getting used, walked on lied to and manipulated. That is only the women who would actually date me, many others said I was to short at 5'7 and at that time I was also overweight until I went on my spiritual path and lost over 100 pounds. However, at age 42, I am in the best health I have been in my life and now weigh the same weight I did when I was 16, 142 pounds. The only difference is on this path I see things for what they are just as I see much of society is fake even when it comes to relationships. Now before I went on my path and as I was losing the weight the next thing I heard from women is "sorry you don't have enough money". But to me, that is one of the reasons I say much of society is fake. You see if it was really about love it wouldn't be about money if it was truly about love the woman or the man would live in a cardboard box together if need be. So I realized love was even fake these days not all but most. When love is determined by height, money, materialism, package size among other things there is no love to be found and it will end up temporary just as any other thing based on materialism, lust, and money. However, on this spiritual path, I am on, it helped me in many ways one of which is totally wiping all sexual urges from myself. I guess one could say meditation can do wonders for many things that need to be controlled for one's own benefit. I once was a pile of goo before I went on this path, never understanding why things happened as they did. Especially when I was raised up to a be a faithful romantic guy. But little did I know that also equaled outlawed things today such as being a nice guy. Now don't get me wrong when I say nice I don't mean some fairy godfather floating at you on your beck and whim. I always put my foot down when I didn't agree with something and never had a problem standing up for myself. But a lot of times when I did it was already too late she expected a guy to be walked on not one that stood up for himself and it would be over as she moved onto the next boy toy. Today I am very happy being alone, no need or want of sex chasing, or trying to change myself just for another woman to discard me. It is nice knowing my own self and not having to change how I talk or watch what I say, or having to put on some facade just to get a date. Money tends to be a big issue today in relationships and for me, all I can say is if one is ruled by a paper god that is who they are in a relationship with from the start. There is no sense in false promises or false love if ones true love is only the paper god. Now despite my views it does not make me a hateful person because if I was I would be contradicting my own path. When I look at a woman I can see beauty, if she is just beautiful on the outside and not in the inside she is ugly but still a spiritual creature that should still be respected. If she is average on the outside and beautiful on the inside then she could easily be a goddess which is far few in between. So when I look at a woman I can see beauty but there is no lust or any attachment of what is between her legs,actually there is no attachment at all. I treat women with respect if they treat me the same that is equality is it not?. I just have no need to date anymore or to lower my spiritual self to a lower consciousness. Especially after knowing what it was like to be in that lower consciousness for so many years. In my world, I have nothing against women or transgendered or anyone for that matter. I will talk and be friends with anyone as long as they are with me, if not I just don't talk or get caught up with all the divides that are plaguing mankind simply to keep their consciousness on a lower level.
Chadpreet :P
I've said this before but I love you so much!!! You're so beautiful and ever time I watch your videos you look more beautiful than before. Thank you !
Ah, I remember the good old days when I was single and I was getting flooded with dickpics and guys who thought that telling me that they'd totally rape me if they got the chanse was a romantic compliment.. Oh well, allow me to say; Welcome to the secret titty club Natalie. We're happy to have you.   Also, you are actually objectively gorgeous.
Chang and chadpreet killed me
Isn't the whole Incel thing kind of symptomatic of a culture so sexually dysfunctional, prejudicial, and superficial that people form convoluted bias theologies to explain a culturally endorsed insincerity that causes its citizens to victimize themselves and each other as a way of appearing normal?
Ayyy, you're so pretty you make me question my female heterosexuality but you like dicks apparently, so that wouldn't even work out. Not that an opinion from a rando matters, but your face looks very feminine now.  Shallow aesthetic compliments aside, I always enjoy the content of your videos, and this is no exception. I do think that the gloom fuel of these communities is horrible for people's psyches and makes it more difficult to see the reality: they're average humans making themselves feel bad.
"I'm not a woman, baking is a very scientific thing" is probably both the funniest and saddest thing I've seen come from roosh's mouth, holy shit how fragile can your masculinity be.
OH GOD NO. I was browsing /lbgt/ when this was posted, had never heard of the channel before. When the video got to the part where she starts talking about /LGBT/ I felt so called out what the fuck I literally posted a selfie like yesterday to show that I'm doomed to be a hon :C
Part of me wonders if it's our own culture that puts these gross expectations on us?  When those expectations aren't met people get upset.  I think the crux of what I'm understanding is that these incels don't want to put in the effort to be successful, and just have shit handed to them like their parents seemingly did.  I think the rise of online dating made it worse, because in truth the people who use online dating aren't representing themselves realistically, everyone shoots for the stars and would never settle.  I'll admit I nearly fell into this trap in my 20s, but the reality is that I was a poor, fat, nerdy, mixed race dude in a shitty country town (I'm talking full on Trump train here).  OF COURSE dating was going to be brutal, but you know what?  All that can change if you put in the effort to drop most of the weight, game less, find a career (granted it put me in debt) and work on something that makes you "desirable" in the dating scene... maybe if someone told these dudes that all relationships is a give and take affair, if you have nothing to offer people won't take you.  That is the reality of relationships, and it's not a bad thing.  I mean, who would want to be in a relationship where you do everything while the partner sits and whines all the time?  I've had to actually turn down my fair share of women when I learn the relationship was going to be me doing all the work and support while she thought she could quit her job and just raise her kids.  It sucks to end things this way, but it's not healthy for both parties.  I know what it's like to be taken advantage of, but there's plenty of fish in the sea, even if the sea tends to be... dirty sometimes.  If someone rejects you for superficial reasons, maybe they're not worth crying over?  I knew people who married for superficial reasons crying on FB when shit went south years later.  Hell, there are happily married people WHO CHEAT on each other... nothing's sacred anymore, that's the beauty of socializing, you learn things you never thought were possible when you live your life in an internet echo chamber.  Also being in a relationship means you have to go beyond your mantra of ME, ME, ME... this goes for both genders FYI, the incels have a ME, ME, ME mentality when it comes to what they want and lack of what they offer.  Which is rather ironic, because they're becoming the very thing they claim to hate.  Also many of them are huuuuuge bigots, that's why I got out of those circles long ago.  I mean, can you believe these idiots are terrified that the love of their life may of had sex with a black guy at some point?  God for bid, had a kid with him?  To the incels she might as well be feral. This is a small part of why "toxic masculinity" has been quite the buzzword this past few years.
Just trapmaxxing and get 2500 likes on tinder broo
Black Pillers seem to talk about the ideology like Lovecraftian protagonists prattle on about how the dark secrets of the Necronomicon were too much for them.
Wow, I myself have dabbled in Bread Science, parlez vouz French Toast? (The scientific method)
Love your videos!
I Incoherent  N Naive  C Confused  E Eager  L Lads
Interesting and informative, thank you. Well worth cringing my way through the first few minutes; that vocabulary is astonishingly horrible. I do have some similar sympathies with the incel guys, being in a position similar to theirs myself for various personal reasons. I've never been much inclined to seek out those sections of the culture though, so it's good to be able to do so second hand.  I think I've said it before, but thanks for reading this stuff so I don't have to.  I found it interesting that you seem to suggest that the incel phenomenon is in some way pathological, that if not a mental illness in its own right, it is at least a culture centered on several connected illnesses. People do tend to pathologise ideas they disagree with, but similarly there's pushback against that tendency, and the tension doesn't always cause the general perception to be accurate. Do you think that the solution to this issue, if there is one, is similar to the approaches we've taken to things like anorexia? Rather than being somehow based on argument or sociopolitical pressures.
This started interesting and just got more and more fascinating from there. You've made something really great, here.
Great video. I actually relate to the trans segment of it quite a bit too. A lot of it mirrors experiences I've had, including the part about 4chan. I had get away from /lgbt/ because how bad it was there. Being trans has been an interesting too because it's helped me see things from both sides like you said. Another similarity to what you've experience, I too have had people who would praise me and say I'm attractive, cute, etc, but I could never believe it because of the bad things other people would say about me, especially on 4chan. I obsess over things like my bone structure, my hairline, the density of my hair, and so on. It's something I still struggle with too unfortunately.  Also, you really are beautiful. I hope some day I can be with my transition as well even though I turned 29 last month and I've had to go without my hormones for about 6-7 months now. :c
people realize that the original virgin vs chad mspaint picture is satirical right?
Ollie's best work in a couple months 👍
15:13 But how to make friends?
Thank you for sharing your story and what you've been through in Part 4. I totally understand those poisonous thought spirals, and the idea of digital self-harm really resonates. I think if incels watched this, it'd do a lot of good.
"BAKERY = SCIENCE" - a sad man with a shit beard.
Reminding you that you’re a gorgeous goddess and that’s beside the point because the person you are is incredible and beautiful. Another great quality video!
alot of the comment section of this video is digital self harm for incel's, calling all masochistcels you're masters are wating.
New rule: Any trans Stacy is to be called a Tracy
La Mer...
I really like those blue and pink lights in this video. Probably because I'm bi.
Surely it's "femm-oid", not "fee-moyd"?
I’m so happy about your love of classical music! 😍😍😍 also, what an interesting video topic. I love the way you can break down social movements and groups! Absolutely amazing work!  P.S. teach me how you do make up?!?!?
I think this is one of your best videos.
Feeeeeeemooooooids
keep lookin out for those kids, they need help, and you're a great mediator.
Contra, I wish you could see your face the way I see it. I see a beautiful face that looks very feminine. You've always been very beautiful, actually, and now that you're living as a woman it seems you've grown into the feminine beauty that's always been there. To me, you're perfect the way you are and I can't see anything that needs changing.
The man-o-spheres exists because rock and roll is dead... That was beautiful
Enlightening and disturbing! Fanfare for this video!
I'm so incredibly happy I found this video! You're awesome
As an aromantic asexual with less than no desire to have sex with others or date people, Incels seem bizarre and inexplicable to me. They act as though not having sex or a girlfriend translates to perpetual misery. I understand that they must feel unsatisfied not getting laid, but there's so much else to life other than sex & dating. There's friends, family, books, games, travel, movies, sports, TV, charity, philosophy, education, pets, cooking, the internet, work etc. Can't they find fulfillment and happiness in other ways?
Most MGTOW's are not Volcels or Voluntary Celibates. They are a small minority.
Great video
OH you like that, don't you, you dirty (Dolphin whistle) ocean. Oh, you can't wait for me to get inside you, huh? Huh? Oh you (Dolphin squee) sl*t , you are so wet!
I giggled like a schoolgirl over that guy's bread insecurity. Hilarious.
35:04 as a black person I would  also do something similar by typing up videos about race and watching alt-right content. It was driving me crazy and I had to stop.
I kind of used to be an incel and I'm a girl. I used to be mad that I was too ugly for a boyfriend and I was socially awkward and dorky as hell. I was only ugly because I really didn't take care of myself well.
Incels are exclusively white, alt right and love Trump. I say kill em all.
I'm realising how fucking close I could have come to falling into some toxic hell community like TTTT, even braincel if I was still a teen. The rhetoric would probably have worked absolutely perfectly on me. I for real feel like I dodged a bullet. Maybe not quite as closely as you did (good job with that btw), but still. They're so insidious, I literally feel chilled to my core just thinking about it. Genuinely terrifying.  Also I want to fuck the ocean now. I didn't before watching this video, but this is where my life is going now it seems. Thank you.
The way you talk about incels and digital self harm also reminds me of pro-ana and similar sites. Basically, you already struggle with some mental health issues and then you enter one of those toxic communities and it become a million times worse because now this is your whole reality, it's the only way of thinking for you. It's crazy how powerful our thoughts are.
'We're drowning in dick & most of it is terrible'
I feel like somebody's taking the piss
Hahaha incels are hilarious.
https://youtu.be/pM6IafSe7Ds
What uhh. What kind of penis is as big as any human wrist? That... That sounds like it would be painful... Who would do that?
I think you're going to have sad dudes drowning themselves in the sea after watching this.
Ffs now I have a thunderstorm fetish thanks Contra
Gosh. I can't stop commenting. Sorry. Your points on dating are so true. I worry that Tinder sets up some guys to find a thousand rejections a day, whereas in real life they'd have zero (because they probably wouldn't ask anyone). Obviously this isn't the fault of women, but it does have an impact, regardless. I think your reflections on both sides of the dating coin are insightful. Thanks.
natalie, you are bomb af
Metal Gear Solid 2 was too optimistic.
contra genuinely deserves all the love in the world
Your editing, set pieces, outfits, scripts, and makeup just keep getting better and better at an exponential rate! Keep up the awesome work!!
Not to be giving women advice on their looks as a cis man, but, Contra, just to be sure, have you tried to convert those Luxury Car amounts of money into champagne, plane tickets and filled chocolates? Just saying, everyone looking fine if everyone are drunk and jolly
Holy shit those are high quality videos that you make!
this was surprisingly relaxing
As a cis-white male home baker and patissier myself, I kinda understand this ultra masculine Roosh V's fascination with bread, although not (mainly) because it's a scientific thing. Where's the romanticism in that? While a science weirdo is going to be obsessively pursuing that perfect dough consistency using complex baker's percentage formulas, a normal, healthy pervert will be adding as much water to flour, as to obtain the dough that will feel like a female breast.
I feel like theres an inherrent capitalist trauma to the Incel thing. Like, we've been conditioned to concider value as currency to be bartered, so when these men dont get what they want the conclusion they come to is that their deficcient in the currency used to buy a woman, and since they vew the source of that currency as within their own body and therefore inmutable, they conclude that the situation is hopeless. And the argot language they invent serves the purpose of codifying this currency, turning it from a vague feeling to something they feel they can measure in thrmselves and others. So not only is the core of their movement rooted in the mysogenystic viewpoint that woman are inhuman resources, it also arises from viewing themselves this way too. This mindset, i feel, is directly related to our cultures distorted meritocratic theory of value.
I cant believe im gonna fuck a thunderstorm
Fucking amazing as usual, Contra!  Also - and I'm not entirely sure why I'm writing this - I'm someone who had the misfortune to be around for the early incel reddit days. Reddit moves quickly, so I'm talking about four years ago before the official main incel subreddit was taken down. It seemed to really take off on reddit before it hit YouTube. There's a few things I've noticed over the years, and what a journey it has been (some of this might be info of interest for my fellow "normies", some of it's directed at incels reading these comments):  - Originally, the incels sub was very strictly about not being able to get women, how all incels are ugly (according to themselves), and how unfair it is with hypergamy and Chads and all that jazz. It seemed very much to me that most incels took their worldview directly from the Red Pill sub, including the hypergamy and Chad bullshit, and for that - I blame you, moderators of that sub. You definitely kicked off their worldview and then complained when every incel inundated your sub once their own sub was banned. The blame could arguably most heavily lie on your shoulders, former Republican Representative Robert Fisher, for designing this warped, fucked-up world view based on your own idea of turning Brave New World into an internet cult to get popularity. You birthed The Red Pill, you gave rise to the idea that incels are somehow a thing. I'll also always remember the specific moderators who assisted you since the beginning - and changing your usernames hasn't worked. It's still clear who is who.  - On every occasion when incels have released their pictures, I've never seen one photo of an ugly guy. Ever. And I'm a tall woman who's dated shorter guys, so don't start up with your heightcel bullshit.  - To incels still reading, I'm old enough to be your mother. And I'm old enough to remember specific suicides from various incels. You didn't believe me then and you won't now, but each suicide really fucking shook me up and it's not something I want. It's not something anyone wants. Oh, and while we're talking about mothers...yes, it IS unfair of any incel to demand sex from a mother, sister or cousin. Stop listening to fellow incels telling you that you just need to guilt your female relatives harder. Because, as we've seen in one memorable case, when your sister is your ONLY lifeline and financially supports you, constant attempts to rape her mean she will move out eventually. I know I can't appeal to any angry incels' sense of compassion about how fucked up it is to constantly attempt to rape someone (and a sibling at that), but look at it this way: once this lifeline is gone, you have no money and no one to get your groceries.  - The incels sub (truecels particularly) changed about two years ago. It became less about "we can't get women" and more about "all women are ugly whores who should be raped and mutilated, and most men are very good-looking: let's post photos of hot guys!" I'm assuming some incels are closeted, in which case - get out of the fucking closet, get off the internet and go get some. You can do it. For the rest: if you're really convinced that women are ugly and men are naturally good-looking, you shouldn't feel any rage about not having sex with something you find disgusting. I know most logic is opposed by a lot of angry incels, but I feel like this logic is hard to argue against. So ignore women and get a hobby that's not just gaming. That thing that you think you might secretly be good at? You probably are good at it, so just practice and do that. You've got nothing to lose. Just get off the sub. Because I don't think you've realized it's just a really horror-themed meme. How could it be true four years ago that women are hot and you can't get one, then true two years ago (and now) that all women are ugly and you don't want them? It's moving a bit thematically, right? Almost like... how Pepe was once awesome and now he's lame, at least according to the incels sub. You're being had, you're being.... "meme-trolled' by your own members. And we all know the sub's shifting narrative means something else you currently don't believe in will be the new trend in two year's time, and if you're still on that sub you'll somehow believe that's true in two year's time. Yet you don't believe it now. And strangely, each new sub theme contradicts the last theme. So... ask yourself, incels: who's trolling you? It's not normies.  - And for any hard-core long-term incels that have researched and read everything incel-related (I know you're out there), you might remember the story of the girl who got into an arranged marriage with an incel. It was posted when I saw it on the blue pill sub about a year ago. For those who remember it: remember how this marriage went? She was willing to have sex with him, and he.... didn't want to do it. Ever. And that marriage died without him attempting ONCE to have sex with a woman he was married to for two years. He wanted to know her every movement, yeah, and he insisted she pee with the door open so he could see her from where he sat on the couch... but all he did was play video games. Half of you will say she was probably ugly because all women are, so he had no choice. The other half... what happened here? Is it possible that something else rather than "the woman is the problem" was at play? I'm betting he was suffering from severe depression that wasn't made better from surfing the incels subs and playing video games all day. And for those who think this story is a lie? Well, the ones who can remember that story would find it very, very hard to deny the truth of her story. It was too involved, too forthcoming with details, too credible. And it was threatening enough to the incels mod to harass her and force her off reddit. Because it threatens the in-group narrative. So I don't have a link to that story - it was blacklisted and she deleted her account and all her history. Just ask WHY and incels mod would do this. You're being duped - not by society, but those who you think are your friends.  And none of you are ugly, by the way.
How come you're the only one that triggers my ASMR when you tap or whisper in that ASMR way?? My ASMR triggers are usually the odd ones.
if you are 3/10 of below there are no actions you take will help you to be happy with a woman. It is not your son or a family member who you just accept because you got used to him. We are talking about the disgust from just looking at the person or hearing his voice. Disfigured face/body can not be helped. So telling them to do all these things is just cruel because they have done so many times with the same end result. incels.me is not a good place to go if you want to understand them.  Literally everyone was an incel at one point of their lives. So imagine this feeling multiplied by 10 lasting throughout your entire life.
everything you do is good and holy. also great names in the credits. cudos to all those ppl with great names!
Roosh's beard! HOLY FUCKING SHITBALLS!
I think "Black-pilling" will be my new shorthand phrase for someone getting caught in a self-destructive shame spiral, particularly when using the internet to reinforce negative self-criticism. As in, "I like the way that fits, particularly in the shoulders, stop black-pilling."
Wait so Rock and Roll is just a dead refuge for incels?? Idk if I agree with that.
This is some high calibre art shit. mmmmhhmmmmmmm
Fantastic video. I wonder if you noticed this bit from Alana's interview, where she explained why the incel movement turned toxic:  > Alana says the big mistake she made, back when she started a movement in her 20s, was that she overlooked what she now calls the student government problem. You can’t build a movement of people whose whole reason for joining the movement is to leave it. It’s not just that the people who find love then go disappear. It’s that you don’t get to have what every other movement takes for granted — the old guard.   > Instead, the people who stayed in Incel were the ones who got stuck — the people who felt the most bitter, the most abandoned. When young people showed up with questions, the people who  should’ve been there to give them hope they’d moved on. Even, eventually, Alana.
This was such a fresh critical take on incels    It also made me want to fuck the ocean
Elliot Rodger would have gotten so much dick if he was gay.
How do you not have more subscribers the effort you put into your videos is incredible and really shows!!
I don't feel bad for Incels, but I do feel bad for anyone who has to deal with them holy fucking shit
Isn’t the woke feminist world view also catastrophizing and teaching bad habits in just the same way? Everything is a micro aggression, you just need to figure out why you’re a victim...
you can't reason with these people because the only thing they take pride in is their awareness of how the world works (regardless of how delusional). they're most confident in their self-destructive self-image. they act like supreme victims, and lack all the humility and reasoning necessary to get out of their hole. the immediate solution that comes to mind is to give them tough love, army style, but perhaps not so tough that they would resent you. patience is very important here, and sadly it's a quality that most humans lack, especially defeatists.
I know I sound like an incel but ur beauty is mighty distracting from the education u are giving me right here. I think I managed to ingest some information tho
i started this video not knowing much about incels and having some vague idea they were internet misogynists. after a few minutes in i saw where this whole train was going and felt both really sorry for these people and really worried for the women that they may have formed unhealthy obsessions with. not to mention the self loathing and suicide. youre right in that they are not deploying reason here, just cultish hypochondria. great video btw
0:22 that escalated quickly
Now that I am officially a wizard... 30 yr virgin... there was always something fascinating about incels... in the wow... that could of so easily be me, kind of thing. I have a cleft lip and crooked nose. I love misogynistic emo music and have absolutely been in "its complicated" relationships that went nowhere and been cheated on all that terrible relationship stuff. Getting nowhere on tindr more recently. But nope never felt it was womens fault or that was just hopeless just not a thought that came to me. There is probably some alternative universe where I went to the wrong place of the internet one day and bamn I was gone.
I don't know why but you whispering "anal" had me laughing so hard I had to stop the video. This is a very good video.  PLEASE DO NOT LEAN ON GLASS RAIL
Fucking Contrapoints - I wanted to hate this video but it turns out to, once again, be fucking good. Fuck. Your comparison between incels and "HONS" was definitely on point.
WAIT WAIT WAIT... where has this amazing channel been all my life?!
A lot of Lombroso moments, here.
This is outstanding Contra, i sincerely applaud you for this on so many levels. Your doing great work. You totally nail the presentation of this i honestly think you will save lives with this video  And i know you probably just glance over comments like this, but i want you to know that it actually warms my heart to have someone so capable and understanding dissect these kind of issues.
Every time I think of incels I think of a comment by Unlimited on Shaun's video about Molyneux and Star Wars that went: "This grown ass man is really upset about the womens".
I love the sea
I hate to admit how much I was into that skull asmr bit...
Realtalk: On my mothers side I am related to a man who was a prominent phrenologist in the 20's and 30's (who also was WAY into racial biology).  Today he might have been an incell.
Finally, a YouTube content creator with the bravery to address how unreasonably erotic the ocean is.
12:27 why is this even an issue, I am a man who cooks, my father cooked, my grandfather cooked and so on. Why do people turn everything into a huge issue?
You know... gay as it may be, I'm with you on the sea point.. because... the sea inheritly includes turtles.
This is such a good video
wait so incel selfies threads are like the opposite of trans girl selfie threads? we trans girls are all like your cute uwu incels post just to get hated on? as a trans gal with so many self esteem issues this confuses me
You're gorgeous!!!! And the video was highly interesting thanks❤️
Natalie I wanna be your friend so bad
Is that woman a trans woman or a real woman? Can't tell.
One of the best video on the topic i've seen, it's insta sub kind of video
I have a really hard time feeling bad for those dudes
omg, are you incelphobic ?
I really don't mean this with any disrespect or anything like that but Natalie looks like Winona Rider. She doesn't only looks like a woman. She looks like a famous lead actress
I pretty much agree with everything you say. Great video.
I have GOT to give them this: “Chadpreet” is pretty fucking funny
this thing of psychological self-harm by looking at triggering or upsetting content is familiar to myself and friends who've self-harmed. some of us have also cut/done something else physical. it is a real thing and it is damaging. please take it seriously, self-harm manifests in a lot of different ways. a lot of my internalised transphobia comes from looking at truscum bullshit online
C H A D P R E E T
BONES?! Their insecure about their bones?! ....BOY IF U DONT!
Thank you for this. I am a breeder and pretty red pill but you have given me a great deal to think about.
I feel that one issue you haven't addressed here is that this loneliness is not driven by sexual frustration, but by a lack of companionship. For most people being unable to find a romantic partner is far more psychologically pressing than being unable to fuck. I would bet money that this sexual frustration and a good chunk of the rage directed at the sexual marketplace is borne out of a lack of any human physical interaction at all, let alone sex. Incel is used as a byeord for their loneliness, not the fact that they cant get their dick wet.  Its also worth mentioning that it's an attractive ideology to people in this situation because there is some truth to it. Women are more hypergamous than men. Attractive people are treated better by almost everyone. The incel and red pill communities extrapolate from some truth to create an all-encompassing worldview that is a caricature of reality, but it's one that they can identify their place in.  Other than that I thought that this was a very well made video, if not the best on the topic.  One final note, while MRAs will be more prone to misogyny than other communities, they are far less prone than other parts of the manosphere you've described. For MRAs it comes from resentment towards injustice, in the same way the really radical feminists will often hate men.   For anyone who can't sympathise with incels and see them as monsters, I would ask you to put yourself in a situation where you feel your looks are inadequate, you have received no romantic or sexual interest for a long time (if ever) and you feel you have no hope of ever escaping this hell. Its easy to see why these people have arrived at this conclusion.
A really insightful video. I have had my fair share of self-loathing, nothing was ever good enough, I had this weird feeling that I was capable of anything but as a person I was utterly useless. I can really relate to the point on actively seeking out flaws and try to get them confirmed. In my case this made my whole world view toxic,  every achievement and every step forward in my life was overshadowed by my "flaws".  the truth was that I was to harsh on myself and my surroundings. I couldnt compete with a fictional ideal man, as that man would change at any given notice and was perfect in all aspects. I just couldnt. I turned my attention elsewhere, I started socializing and helping people in my surroundings so I could move away from my own doubts and fears. On that path I learned alot about myself and I saw that even if I thought myself useless other people saw me as a good person. This was relevation that other people didnt see me the same light as I was.  Im still recovering, but after a couple of years I must say I am now a better person with a much healthier state of mind.  My tip to you is this, dont be so harsh against yourselves.
Incel life is comfortable in a way. Don't try, knowing you will probably face some form of rejection along the way, because you're already doomed. For people who have experienced plenty of rejection already this is a narrative they're willing to accept.
I was a pen pal with someone who frequents r/Braincels. He is not an incel or anything but he "feels" that way. He gets dates and sex and all that, has a job as a store manager, lives alone, is confident despite being obese, but because I don't think he knows how to form human connection he often complains about not having someone.
fantastic video
Love your videos contra  I'm glad you have tackled the incels  I'm not gonna lie their is small percentage of them I feel sorry however they should because proven wrong As roosh what. The fuck mist chef in the world are men cooking isn't masculine or feminine
Great Video Contra. Hopefully it changes some minds :)
Incels are the male version of ugly bitter radical feminists who hate men.
One of your best yet, you managed to get at the humanity behind the label without ever downplaying the vile things they believe.   Bloody fantastic work as usual.
Phenomenal.  Sidenote: is "Excels" is a thing yet? Cos I'd happily read a Reddit feed of nerdy, skinny and/or short/small-headed guys sharing their stories of 40yr long happy marriages. Til then I'll just chat with my dad.
They way these guys think of women is disgusting, however I relate way to much 😂
Condemned to an existence of lamentation and cuckoldry! Amazing!
I'm really glad I became an adult before social media really was a thing. When I was a depressed teenager I had some of the same thoughts, but luckily I couldn't become a member of an online society of similarily depressed and sexually frustrated teens who would validate my depressive delusions. Building an identity on the idea that you're doomed to never find love is not only dangerous but possibly self fulfilling. Thinking that way makes you really unapproachable and unappealing.  What "cured" me in the end was partly growing up, and partly conciously deciding that I don't have to desperately seek relationships. I can satisfy myself sexually perfectly well on my own when I need to, and I should just try to have fun and make friends the rest of the time and be myself. When I finally met someone, I was not in anyway trying to behave attractively, I was just sat and sang metal lyrics (that I barely knew) to myself if I felt like it, wearing whatever I felt was comfortable, not caring whatever anyone thought. A woman (who is now my wife)  found me interresting and took me on a date (well, she more or less just grabbed me and said let's go somewhere else) and we've been together ever since.   I now see how my needy, desperate and horny behavior as a teen must have been really repulsive; while my carefree and more playful attitude later must have seemed confident. I mean; I think I wore cargo shorts, a wrinkled shirt and a woolen sweater, wool socks and sandals at the time I met her. And I wasn't really dressing as a slob either, though it might sound like that. I wore colorful patterned shirts etc., I just ignored any rules of fashion in general. Doing your own thing (even if it's weird and if you don't seem embarrased about it), looks like confidence. I probably weren't as confident as I looked back then; it was probably more that I've given up trying and just decided nothing really matters that much than genuine confidence; but it doesn't matter. At least I didn't look uncomfortable and desperate.  It's really a cliche, but it's true: it's better not trying to hard, just relax and wait and enjoy yourself in the mean time. If you try to just enjoy life, the worst that could happen is that you stay single but still have a joyful life anyway; and qute likely you won't stay single for ever anyway if you just are yourself, have fun and meet people.  If you cultivate your depressive desperation like the "incels" do, the best that could happen is that you stay desperate, depressed and alone (unless somehow grow out of it and stop thinking that way); and the worst that could happen is you become suicidal.
They really want to believe that not getting romantic attention is a form of oppression or exploitation, which it is not no matter how bad it feels. Self-improvement really is the only solution.  If they really cared about solving this issue they would be coming together as a community to help each other develop social skills, give positive feedback to others on how to improve appearance, or sharing resources on finding treatment for their mental issues.   I really think there should be public programs to help people like this (the things I mentioned, not state-issued girlfriends) because these toxic communities are only making the problem worse.
Contra looking like a snac
I think it's important that a trans person is delivering this science, particularly because it's easy for you to speak on the subject obliquely because you're not caught up in these incel arcs and dynamics. Thanks for this.
So incels are galtonists?
There's something wrong with me. I looked up the feedback from incel groups on this video. A lot of bro stuff; "there were no logical arguments, my high IQ is destroying this ******".
Is ocean fetish vore adjacent
Well, you look great hon xD
thios is my second video of you and i love your channel the first was the west
Can I smell your panties?  Too soon?
I like your videos so much that I watch it in normal speed!
I respect your right to choose how you present, but I wanted you to know, that to me your face and it's striking features have become a beacon of light and hope beaming the truth of philosophy and logic into the dark corners of my mind and restoring strength to places left weak from the riggers of the day, the year, the life.  Many other thoughts on this video but that one I felt was most important.  -with love, some Queer psychology student.
Absolutely brilliant video! I'm asexual so kinda the opposite of incel, so I feel protected from the blackpill
I’m a woman but I’ve looked at r/braincels or whatever in the past just to see what kind of harmful stuff this “community” was perpetrating. One of the things that struck me most was not the crazy misogyny (expected that) but the just straight up laughably inaccurate way they guess women behave and think. They never consider that women might also feel insecure and inadequate sometimes, that women are capable of being driven by selflessness or wanting to help others, or that women can be hardworking determined people who want to better themselves and not just their appearance. The point is, yeah one of their MOs is to treat women like objects and hate them, but many of them literally can’t even comprehend that women have real thoughts, feelings, or goals at all. That blows my mind!
Hahahaha, "bread scientist". Gosh, this content is just what I needed, thanks for making this!
My... my skeleton is too... small? The fauk? In what way? Too small... I'm fuckin' 6'2" how is my skeleton too small?
*replays **7:57** forever*
I appreciate your love for the sea and storms. I for one, am gay for the moon.
I just watched this on like 2 days without sleep and that was intense, I think I need to sleep now
you're gorgeous and i love your videos so much
I used to sink into 4chan and Reddit and just essentially become the life. Everything was just revolving around whatever depraved self-destructive idea I could think up.  You could literally feel the stress and the flood of testosterone destroying your ability to be self-critical or empathetic, because essentially all you wanted was that rush of hatred and satisfaction of either hurting someone else's position through egoism or indulge in whatever emotion you felt you needed at that time... usually negative.  It becomes addictive because it's completely internalised and you can sever your link to the outside world doing it. Of course anything negative thrown your way only fuelled it more, and so you'd end up in 50 threads of arguing over absolutely nothing and ultimately trying to invoke the most hateful insults toward the person to make them feel as shitty as possible.  There was no peer like jibes meant to merely bounce off as playful banter. This was a knife fight in the back alley of the internet. Really it did nothing to help me. It just distorted reality for me. And really it's only because i'm self-reflective enough to realise what it was doing, and lucky enough that I didn't stay in that circumstance for long enough that I managed to get out of it.  But a significant part of my late 20s was spent that way. Simply unplugged from grown up life.
you’re so right about the sea and rainstorms
Theres only one solution to all of this. E N F O R C E D    M O N O G A M Y
I kinda like Becky's nerdy bun.
Ywn cuddle up against a soft big tiddy furry waifu that awoos    Why even.
This did make me think a little bit. Generally I tend to feel pretty contemptuous of incels (mainly due to the ugly discourse), but this did make me feel sorry for them.
Incels are part of a larger movement to oppose society in general. Perhaps the original publicly known version of this was Diogenes of Sinope, who considered society hopelessly corrupt and in need of tearing down (and remaking). All of this culture can be boiled down to Cynicism, whose purpose is to destroy society and remake it.  Although incels are part of the political right, Diogenes himself was profoundly Leftist, and Anarchist in the modern sense. It's a ridiculous mistake to consider the left and the right on a line, as if either are closer to the center than they are to each other. Diogenes and Incels are quite close, despite their differing political goals.  Diogenes and the modern Anarchists and Incels agree that society should be destroyed. Where they differ is on the nature of the reconstruction. Incels would create a horrific patriarchal world, with strict controls placed on women due to how "terrible they were before the revolution".  Political moderates find themselves attacked by both the left and the right because they absolutely do not want society to be destroyed. To them, the tragedy would be the destruction itself.
No wine drinking from the skull, disapointed!
What the fuck this was so great I'm about to binge this channel.
virgin for ever???    prostitutes???   hello?
Just a quick correction: understanding who they are and why they think a certsin way is what sympathy is.  The word you were probably looking for in your contention is empathy which is how one connects emotionally/the feels. (Just a thing most people get wrong that irks me, have a nice day).
Nope.. wrong again.    PS, I didn't even bother watching the video. I just know you're wrong.
pretty sure incel's problems were all solved with THE OLDEST PROFESSION ON EARTH
Talking about self harm, I sometimes wonder how many people who do it are actually subs/masochists but have no context to understand their feelings? I used to physically self harm as a teenager and as I got older realised that I'm a masochistic, which I'm sure comes from being wired differently somehow
You're wearing a tentacle ring that I bought in bulk and have been distributing amongst my queer circles lately. I think I'm trying to start a cult but tbh the nebulous aesthetic works. 10/10
Glorious lol
But... I like my small wrists ;-; On a serious note, it seems that incels are even more critical about appearance than other people. I have terrible self-esteem problems, but I never came to the point when I would hate my thin wrists.   Also, the word femoid is just disgusting.
Can a fuckhole also called a birthole as well?  Love you keep up the great videos
*hugs* you inspire me to be amazing.
So I decided to visit 4chan's LGBT board after watching this video (first time back on 4chan in probably close to 10 years), and there was this post:  http://boards.4chan.org/lgbt/thread/10481810  Obviously, a lot of the comments are horrible because 4chan is a cesspool, but a pretty large percent of people in that thread were saying things like, "she's definitely right. This place is toxic af." And a few said the video inspired them to leave. Good job, Natalie! It's having a positive impact! ^^
You gotta young Winona Ryder vibe going on
I wanted singing and piano! Dance for me weirdly shaped woman! DANCE! I mean SING!
I'm sad that no one seems to be mentioning the most basic fact: that one can live happily without sex and that our hypersexualized society has not been the norm through history. In fact, in most historic societeis, fucking was the exception and celibacy was pretty common. Also, sex as a form of validation from others is seriously fucked up; I think what these incels really want is not just to ejaculate on a woman, but mostly to feel superior and validated. Also, someone should at least mention asexual and aromantic people who don't even want 'normal' relationships to begin with.  tl:dr; not having sex is not a problem unless you make it one
Sublime video.
Oh, good lord!  "At least these pricks care enough about my pussy to be assholes about my dick!"  Best. Line. Ever!
Stop trying to make me want to fuck water, Contra, you're going to give me a fetish.
W H A T I S I T W I T H Y O U P E O P L E A N D S K U L L S
This is by far my favorite of your episodes so far. I can tell that this one was personal for you.  Thanks Contra
I'm an Incel and I happen to think this was a very good video. Probably one of the best I've seen on the subject. you got a few things wrong but aside from that, great stuff. I do approve of this video. I really enjoyed your humor as well.
What is is with you people and skulls?
I had a gender dysphoria. And I did not dare to transition because I would never look like a real man. I'm small (1.56 m) and busty, I have a high voice and a big ass. I accepted myself, of course, but sometimes I think about my life in the subjunctive mood.
Ive definitely been at a stage 5 on the catastrophe scale (at 14:02) before. I tend to turn those feelings into self loathing rather than misogyny though. No need to join some cringy forum to hear about how shit I am, my brain does that all by itself.   I don't really have any advice for what to do when those feelings come other than just ride them out and wait until you feel better.
you're an angel
Too good
I won't accept ocean apologism
Wait you didn’t get thomas middleditch did you?
also: this is art
Tag yourself i'm a lesbian stan
My heart breaks a little every time I hear about these forums. Thank you, Contra, for being such a wise and tender fairy godmother <3
Great video once again!
Ok so a few things not mentioned that I think are very relevant:  You made the connection between incels and tttt, but also pro-anas and meanspo. Also while you said how getting a hobby and stuff can help, one thing that seriously needs to be mentioned is how having irl friends that you love and who you know love you won't solve feelings of sexual inadequacy and sexual isolation, it does heavily reduce feelings of needing romance and feeling like needing a romantic partner is peak necessary.
Ahh, sweet Contrapoints, returned to the ocean...   A bottomless curse, a bottomless sea. Accepting of all that there is and can be
Thanks gor the Schopenhauerian ending ❤
Your hair is so beautiful in this video!
Natalie focus too much on looks and men vs females bullshit. Shitposting.  The true incel experience is about the crushing alienation from not being able to relate to the experiences of your peers, parents, grandparents, siblings etc, because you've been a shutin for most of your life. The feeling of inferiority when you hear about all the cool shit others have done that you haven't and how you try to come up with something interesting from your life to tell but simply can't. How awkward it is being questioned about your life and that 4-year hole in your resume when you were too fucking mentally ill and exhausted to do anything. How pathetic it is that the only time you went out for a drink was with your own mother at the age of 24. How you've been robbed of your teenage years, literally wasting them in front of a computer screen to avoid social interaction. How you've never been invited to party as an adult and how your last rl friendship ended more than a decade ago. How you lie awake at night and indulge in fantasies about what having friends would be like and all the fun things you would do if you had any. How your crushing depression leaves you dependent on your parents good will and how you've given up all hope for a partner, friends, and happiness ever. How the prospect of suicide slowly turns into a comfort into the only realistic endpoint. How culture is saturated with romance, relationships, friendship and all these wonderful things you know deep in your soul you will never get to experience. All you can do is watching others flaunting theirs.  But reading some of these comments I realize I'm simply a gross entitled misogynistic pig who deserves all suffering in the world for simply being a male virgin. Pop culture has taught me I'm laughing stock and dirt to people. And what do you know, it seems to be true.
r/braincels is not happy with you :o
This is absolutely your best video so far. Informative, frank, funny. I love how sincere these videos always are.
also, an incel shot up my brothers school in Oregon, killed his professor, and his homeboy
You like to understand people a lot
The 'chad' looks like it was drawn by the same person who drew the art in old Jimquisition episodes
Are you a weak guy or a girl with an unfortunate voice? I can never tell. I saw only the last part but yeah I agree with what you have to say, even though I don't know what you're talking about and I probably won't watch the whole thing because I get bored easily.
I used to be the friend equivalent of an incel. Back before I was diagnosed autistic, I was really bitter and angry at the world because I was unable to make friends or maintain emotional connections. I still have trouble with those things, but learning to like myself and focus on other things as well helped me cope, as well as become more genuinely interesting enough to appeal to people on that level.
This is a takedown of epic proportions. Amazing.
You're acting like bone structure is not an important thing for literally everything.
The wristcelism and handcelism spiel needs to stop. Face and body shape are all that matters.
I love you.
That's it!! I'm subscribing, you are brilliant!
"At least these pricks care enough about my pussy to be an asshole about my dick." me: HUHHHHHNNNNNGGGGGGGG
I’ve noticed that a lot of these Incel guys are cute. There are gay bath houses where these guys would get all the attention. They probably don’t want to think about cock but if they went there for an afternoon they would have some answered in about five minutes. Change your perspective and look into your local gay sex club. Most major cities have at least one. You’re welcome
WHY IS NO ONE TALKING ABOUT THE CHAD CIRCUMFERENCE??!!!
Wow, thank you for sharing this. This clearly got quite personal and I thank you for making this video as you back up your arguments and make some incredible points. Your points about tinder are feelings I've had for a while but  not been able to explain. I hope you keep making these videos as they are really well made. Again, thank you.
Too many hookers on tinder now
The Mansophere
lgbt board sucks. r/lgbt sucks. where do I go?
i just wanted to see some Contra gameplay but cool.....
Roasties are delicious potato snacks. Why incels, why did you ruin that word for me.
Haven't even come to the end but immediately felt an urge to press like!
I liked this, but it made me think about my bones too much.
20:50 we are so #blessed to be living in the time of contrapoints
Message to "incels", learn to play guitar, bass drums (or other instrument), join a band, if you're even half good, problem solved. You may have to pay a price with alcoholism, but hey. DAMHIK
thank you skull-people
AH NO WONDER I'M SO SEXUALLY FRUSTRATED, ALL I HAVE IN MY ROOM IS AN LG, WILDKAT, AND RHODES FLYING V!
I recently had a TERF tell me that I was lying about being a trans man and "gaslighting" her about it, despite her seeing pictures of me where you could clearly see my mastectomy scars, because of the shape of my skull....  It ALWAYS comes down to the skull!!!
Skulls aren't unchangeable :) but I get your point
As a 28 year old friendless virgin with anxiety and depression, I’m almost shocked that I’ve never even considered venturing near the incel ideology. Maybe it has something to do with the fact that I don’t blame others for my lack of friends/relationship.
Seems like a very concise summary of the incel community. These people are in a dark place and need some help. Unfortunately things they suffer from, like social anxiety, can be quite hard to get rid of on your own.
There's nothing wrong with your face or skull, you don't need to "shave" anything down.
One of your best videos. Great work Natalie.
I dare you to make a video in daylight/sunlight in your 'woman form'
This was so interesting and you’re so pretty
Contra you don't need to change your face!! I mean you can if you want. I guess I just want to say I like your face.
I'm not an incel but this video really made me think about how I think about women. I've been unhappy with that aspect of myself for a while but this was a good shift in perspective. Thank you.
I must say that the sea is extremely attractive
I hate the bleeping out of the curse words. it's super lame.
Straight people... you scary!
Incels are leftists, they want things without earning them. Also I thought contra points was “secretly” into the Golden Ones 😂.
Your video was very informative and I hope it helps somebody that is/was an incel. It's strange I love your videos but typically find one point divorced from the main point I disagree with. In this case it's your conflation of Men's Rights Activists and Incels/Redpillers in general. Now I'm not saying that there is no MRA that's a redpiller. I'm sure there's some overlap. However that isn't the core philosophy I've seen from MRAs. Which is simply that western society has largely moved away from anything that could be called a patriarchy and is instead plagued by gender roles that affect everyone in different ways and everyone tethered to the old ways are complicit.  There's things that hurt women, like the overwhelming sexual exploitation in the work place that can go unreported for years that lead to the metoo movement or reproductive rights which should have been a matter settled years ago yet we're still having to fight for it.  Meanwhile men deal with being treated like the aggressor in domestic disputes thanks to the Duluth model, Feeling as if they can't report rape or being disbelieved when it happens and the acceptance of genital mutilation as long as it happens to boys.
mY skelliton has extra bones structure.
oh woe is me I cant get a girl and its everybody else fault in the world but mine, including god and darwin and evolution apparently
*Is it in yet?... I'm done* I can say as a former male to the comment made at 32:10 ; that no women will talk about their period to another guy. NEVER has that happened when I was a guy. After becoming a women I hear about it  more then I would like. Great thing about incel dick is never having to worry about STD's or good sex for that matter.
It's funny because I watched this right after I finished reading Frankenstein, and the monster really is a prototype of Incel discourse.  "I'm ugly and detestable, my creator abandoned me, no one loves me and no one will ever love me, I should be assigned a girlfriend but since you won't make me one I'm killing people as a revenge and now my only future is to LDAF (Lay Down And Freeze)."
😂😂😂😂 Ten minutes later can I smell your panties 😅
Wow you could have at least got me to read the chad memes you fucking sociopath
Contra you're so fucking weird and poetic wtf.
FUCK YES
love u contra!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 😘
Incels are a sexual minority. Amusing that the author of this video completely ignores this. Well, I guess you people need a villain to hate and project your own shortcomings to.
This video was less about incel and more about sea-fetishism
There's something very honest about an incel post titled "Imagine how a women feels" that never actually says anything about what a woman might actually be thinking or feeling
Incel's misery is their euphoria and their happiness, self-inflicted death is their idea of nirvana, an end.  If there is a Satan, these are his children.   Funny thing is, they can relate to Jesus, who is thought of to be celebate and sought death onto a cross he could have avoided easily.
Oh god i almost died with the phrenology biy. I saw it coming, but i still, i laughed my ass off. Hey, did you ever consider doing a video with the guys from some more news or small beans? I bet you could make some good work together. You probably won't read this but oh well. Keep up the good work
I have the strongest urge to fuck the ocean
Are you ever going to tackle how the need to "achieve" these goals, be they becoming a chad or passing, are not natural but rather forced upon us by social expectations that aren't necessary or positive?
I'll take pathetic losers for 200 Alex.
I lost it when Roosh said he is an „Ultra Masculine Baker“. Lol, never seen a less masculine man in my life. He‘s just such a whiny brat.
Can we... talk about the aesthetics of this? Cause they make my heart melt. Whatever the light is doing right now? Never stop doing that please? For me?
When I saw the title and even the beginning of the video I was like "what's new, why another video on the topic?"; but of course, you have managed to make a great video as always! Thank you for your honesty!
do NOT watch this video. it's sissy hypnosis
Waifubots will make woman obsolete.
Becky and Stacy are girlfriends
Excellent work Natalie.  And yes, you actually are really pretty.  I am a becky and you are a stacy.
Talk about the shaman videos
YES, a new Contrapoints video! THE WEEKEND IS SAVED!  For as everyone knows, to thoroughly watch a Contrapoints video you need to watch it like 10 times over, ergo the weekend is saved
Womanhood is so much more than beauty
Fuck me mom
The bearded BREAD SCIENTIST killed me. Can we make this a meme please?
These are really first rate and always worthwhile.
Chad philosophyTube and Stacey contrapoints committing incelocide
To men who think women don't like them because of their height: do you know how obsessed anime fans were over Levi Ackerman a few years ago? If other things are good about you, no one will care.
I've never failed to be shocked at just how articulate you are but this really does it for me.  Thank you so much for such an amazing breakdown of this...culture? Issue? Yea :'D
True intels live in landlocked countries
Even before you plunged deep into asmr territory, the skull-tap was giving me chills
<3
Wonderful video. Praise be to Contra!
and now i have an ocean fetish, thanks
Imagine how a pig feels when killed in a gas chamber. Stop the corn dog shit. Corn dogs are neither food nor toys. They are the remains of tortured pigs. I don't know. Have a look at Land of Hope and Glory on Earthling Ed's chanel. Or just think about how ugly specissism is. But do something about it. Stop normalising the consumption of cruel food.  I mean you cannot sympathise with incels because of their misogyny. You speciesism is hard to wach. You symbolically use remains of tortured pigs for entertainment. You’re no better than exploited and brutalised animals. And your speciesism might be worse than incels misogyny.    And actually if you just don’t care about pigs, stop this corndogs joke for the sake of your vegan fans.
Rock is dead, isn't it...
I love your videos, but im always hesistant to actually watch them cause youtube then starts recommending videos from the alt right :(
I LOVE STRAIGHT CULTURE SWEETY
you have very beautiful, androgynous, photogenic bone structure that a lot of cis women would kill for. I honestly feel a little sad every time you talk about surgery. it's like listening to an anorexic person talk about how fat they are. anyway: you're undeniably gorgeous but your intellect and reasoning for the past year or so has taken some hits, seriously. it's true you are intelligent and can produce great arguments when you're not simultaneously trying to justify your own worth. but you're not doing great things for women when you become one and your primary concern is your appearance, followed by the shortcomings of boys on tinder. you've reduced femininity to a playable game which you can then participate in, and there's no need for that. what does it mean to you to be a woman? how much of your self-worth hinges upon being recognised as what you already know yourself to be? you're playing a dangerous game Natalie. I wish I could just shake you.
I live in Australia and so embracing the dark mother that is the ocean means certain doom...
Rope fuel lol
"The inherent eroticism of the ocean."  Love that.  Also, the inherent eroticism of the spoken soliloquys of Shakespeare - "Oh that this too too solid flesh would melt and resolve itself into a dew.... (Love your channel btw). xxx
Imagine how the sea feels.  Then remember you live in a landlocked state.
great now its gonna be really weird every time i go to a public beach
Watching this video was like constantly staring into the Abyss
The Attenborough segments made me absolutely lose my shit. Excellent content as always, Nat!
Can you TW suicide text before it occurs?
This video is inappropriate for YouTube. You can't go talking about the ocean like that. Think of the children!
How did you get your eyes to shine like that? Also I was hoping for a Contra cover of “I’m so tired of being alone” by Al Green.
ah yes, the three genders: men, women, the sea. thank you again for such a fab video contra!
"Churning out mass murderers faster than marvel makes avenger movies" "Bread scientist"  Love the comedy in the very agreeable discussion. ^^
This is actually my favorite video yet, really nicely done. And an incredibly interesting topic.
So basically everyone needs a therapist but most can't afford one so one too many people kill themselves and or become murderers...because...internet?   Alright, great job humanity you've out done yourself.
God, these people are crabs in a bucket
I think that "virgin" silhouette may be Marlon Williams - a very popular NZ singer. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zchdH3zAYAE
Arghhhhhh Incels, ewwwwwwwwwwwwww make it stop! They could just get hire a crack hooker, just saying.
Hey Contra. Thanks a lot for putting the effort into peeling back the layers on this and sharing your own experience. Good luck with the skull! But don't sweat it if you fall short of perfection. All the best!
Mom you're so gorgeous
That will never be a woman.
What the hell is this?
"At least these pricks care enough about my pussy… to be an asshole about my dick!" 🤣I fuckin' woke my neighbors up!😂
Great, now I'm even hornier for the sea than I was before.
You still need new roommates...
Listening to Olly reading these posts was so uncomfortable. He's great, and these posts are... not.  Another fabulous video about something horrible Natalie!
Fantastic work, as always <3
Incels are a trip man XD
I was struck by how many of the comments made about incels in this video could, mutatis mutandis,  apply equally well to the way popular feminism is understood, embraced and practised by a significant number of younger women, especially c. 15 -24 year olds.   For example, when discussing 'the black pill' you [ContraPoints] point out the  ultimate conclusion is that 'Happiness is impossible and there's nothing you can do except lie down and rot' [13:03]. Popular activism aside - the women's march and so on - the relentless bleakness of this vision of the world, I would say, is just as evident in the concepts of hegemonic and toxic masculinity; of rape culture; of the glass ceiling and so on.  In other words, there is a relentless hammering home of the message that if you are a woman you are a second class citizen; that you less respected; that you paid less; that you are worth less (and perhaps worthless); that your best efforts will inevitably be overlooked no matter how hard you try; that you have to work twice as hard to get half as far ... and so on.  What is all that if not a persistently and aggressively self-destructive message? What is all that if not a determined effort to make women feel hopeless in the face of 'Patriarchy'?  And much in the same way that you/C.P. shows how incels heap scornful mockery on the suggestion that they should just go to parties and socialise more or read books and etc., the rage and indignation that typically bounds back on anyone who tries to suggest that, you know, perhaps women in the western world (and certainly the women most often complaining loudest about it) might not actually have it quite so relentlessly awful as they have painted out after all is really quite something to behold.  Much like the incels described here, many young women who identify as feminists (online at least) seem to relish the idea of being oppressed and to take a distinctly dark delight in the idea that they are doomed and live in a culture that is designed to keep them subordinated.  Given the second wave inheritance modern feminism has and how second wave ideas still heavily influence contemporary feminism, it's maybe worth also noting the biographies of some of those leading figures of 1960s and 1970s feminism.  For instance, a number of key figures - Betty Friedan, Kate Millett, Shulamith Firestone - struggled with mental health at some point in their lives and, in the case of the latter two, had a serious impact on them. Andrea Dworkin's experiences with men in general were - I think it's fair to say - very far from typical and yet many of those experiences went on to inform her writings and her ideas about how all men relate to all women.   Anyway ...
Contrapoints doesn't disappoint. Exposing these weird ass internet subcultures that are destructive.
another great one, thanks
Hypergamy always struck me as weird. I mean, there are lots of examples of guys dating well above their "looks match" too yet it is only women that get blamed for it.
Is 4 Chan for fascists now?
35 minutes on incels, I thought, really how indulgent is this going to be?...35 minutes later, holy shit this is better than a thousand bad thinkpieces. Bravo
Found you through Lindsay a while ago and subbed with the intention of checking some of your vids out later. Now I finally have and WOW, you've got yourself a new fan! Can't wait to binge the rest of your stuff!!
Ive been waiting patiently for the new ContraPoints video and watching old PhilosophyTube in the meanwhile and was sooo confused as to what alternate reality I was in when I saw Contra, got excited, then got Olly porn.  Confused and a bit turned on.
I admit that went Black Pill and followed douchebags like mundane Matt, sargon, pjw and other asshole youtubers
Don’t talk like you are one of the women/chads, you’re not! Even if you’d like to be. To them, you’re just a freak–like me. They accept you when they watch you on youtube from home. In real life…they’ll cast you out. Like a leper. See, their morals, their code: it’s a bad joke. They’re dropped at the first sign of trouble. They’re only as good as the world allows them to be. You’ll see, when the chips are down these civilized people will eat each other. Ya see Incels are not monsters, they're just ahead of the curve.
Volcel if you wouldn’t
an advice for all incels: if you can't beat them join them. Weaponize hormone therapy, strategize your next makeup layer, go out and fuck the brains out of everything and everyone, TAKE YOUR REVENGE
Thank you based Natalie for blessing us with another video.
Thanks for making this, I'm impressed by the elaborate research and the way that you make heavy and dark subjects accessible and digestible, but also the intricate visual and theatrical quality of your works. I love the lighting and atmosphere too. And I think it's really cool how you embody different characters such as Abigail and Tiffany as well. Oh and also, you are absolutely stunning. And I'm not saying that in an everyone is beautiful sense of the world.
Spending six months on reddit would get you this info without this video (atleast for me). With this video it takes half an hour.
I LIVE FOR YOUR DRAMATIC AESTHETIC AND STYLE. KEEP KILLIN IT BABE!!!!!!
I signed in just to say: I _was_ literally raising my (right) eyebrow when you said I may be doing that.
In light of all of this, I'm so happy to be asexual.
Top Ten Youtube Channels. I love you Contra. You are sexy.
Before I even watch the video... I know for a fact it would be a great one
Incels talking about not finding girlfriends because of their looks is so weird to me. My boyfriend is a beanpole with a slighty hooked nose but I find him hot and at no point did I think "I can't love him, his wrists are too small!".
ur a dood LOL
Think this video is well produced, but the other narrator makes my ears bleed.
Screw the skull-fuckers, I’m a straight white cis-man, and ContraPoints is an attractive woman and anyone who isn’t a criminally insane bigot/misogynist can see that.
The fact that Roosh feels like he needs to reaffirm his masculinity just because he baked bread is downright absurd
I really needed this video and loved it so much that I had to switch accounts because I'm too embarrassed to comment from my main one.   For simplicities and personal sake I'm going to keep my life experiences short. I wasn't an Incel, MGTOW, PUA, or any of the sorts but I was in a path of becoming an Incel. I "took" the RedPill almost 6 years ago when I discovered and lurked the RedPill subreddit, ironically my issue was never with dating women but my self image and self esteem. I discovered the term Incels from the RedPill subreddit and soon found myself lurking around /r9k/ and multiple Incel forums out of pure curiosity because their mindset and ideology were very gripping and I felt comfort in throwing pity parties with other people who shares the similar mindsets, luckily I never went as far to "taking" the BlackPill. What a lot people especially those who aren't familiar to the overall culture don't understand is how seductive it is to those especially who are in their early 20s and in a really bad mental place and sees a tiny glimmer of hope of living a normal happy life. Watching this video 3 times actually inspired me not to only block those websites but to actually reach out to friends, family, and professional help.  What I really loved about this video is the amount of care and research you put into it didn't resort to mocking nor sympathy. I remember reading articles covering the Toronto attack a while back and was disappointed in most of the journalist who covered the Incel culture and don't get me started on the horrible takes most YouTubers had on Incel culture. The issues I had on the takes on it was that the culture was dismissed and oversimplified into "they're extremely misogynistic social inept men" which is 100% true, but no one dared to dive deeper to see how the toxic and harmful yet mesmerizing the Black Pill ideology to themselves to the point a lot of these people on those websites are conditioned to think that they cannot mentally escape it and resorts to suicide or revenge. Again, I really admire and respect your research and take on Incels. It was the push I needed to get away from it instead of moping around and reading depressing stories and posts to justify my pity party you are truly one of the good ones. Also not only this video but I love all of your other ones too.
Strange that parts of the video are 1:1 applicable to SJWs and radical feminists.
who else looked at their wrists....
25:00 It's just cognitive dissodance man. When your worldview is wrapped around being shitty all the time it's hard to accept the possability it might isn't true
So , incels are a type of SJW then? Got it.
ollys voice over made me hard btw.  that man is one hunky mofo.
Intelligent and sensitive strategy with which to approach the incel pandemic. Unfortunately, however, they're all limp wristed cry babies  and deserve to be rounded up, shot, and thrown in an unmarked ditch. Genetic refuse, political liability. 'Fuck em'.
she sells incels by the seashore
You’re a gorgeous goddess <3
I wonder if this is what Hegel meant when he said "the spirit is a bone."
Hahaha you’re more fucked in the head than the incels
Thank you for that. It was very informative and insightful.
"still attracted to women"  So you're saying there's a chance...
Contrapoints you are the best voice sjws have on YouTube.  The vocab and jokes shows you know your stuff.  Another good vid.
Great video. 😉, you do pass as a hot chick btw.
“Behold, the sea itself, And on its limitless, heaving breast, the ships; See, where their white sails, bellying in the wind, speckle the green and blue, See, the steamers coming and going, steaming in or out of port, See, dusky and undulating, the long pennants of smoke.”
olly <3
this is definitely one of my favorites wow 10/10
I alternated between laughing out loud and feeling intensely uncomfortable. A roller coaster ride from start to finish.
I got a little creeped out with this begining...
Damb you really made me want to fuck a rain storm
I would definitely give the dog a bone (Australian slang), if you know what I mean. But, you would have to cut your dick off, first Contra...
I tried to sleep alone. But I couldn't do it. You could be sitting next to me - I wouldn't know it. If I told you you were wrong. I don't remember saying it. I don't remember saying it. - Doves, 'The Cedar Room', From 'Lost Souls'.
good af video, fucking funny, informative, and thought provoking
DON’T YOU WANNA STAY WITH ME DON’T YOU WANNA FEEL MY BONES ON YOUR BONES IT’S ONLY NATURAL
Love the perspective you give in this. Fantastic work, and nice use of framing the discussion and  coloring. Getting better with every video!
for the record,  can't i just go on a date with you without giving a shit what equipment package came bundled with your copy of Outside(tm)? I would love to take you to pratt street ale house. Their nachos are fucking incredible. I was trying to build up the courage to ask you out while I was attending a convention but I wussed out XD really just getting a meal would've been nice. Point is... I'm sure there are loads of people who value you more for your contributions to society than shit that's beyond your control, because that's me and I AM NOT SPECIAL, theres gotta be a bajillion humans just like me who feel the same. Please pick one. I just want you to have a nice lunch ;_;
im? so enchanted by foppington's lük
👍🔥🔥🔥🏳️‍🌈 Whenever anyone says somethng negative/derogatory to me about being super out, not giving an F, and being obvious MtF I jam out to this song: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4sXoA7B5yJo&index=11&list=RDEMBhlpzGCZlXxLMeHLVGJ2lQ  🌈💙💟💙🦄
There is nothing that makes me want to introduce nine milimeteres of lead to my frontal lobe more than the endless sending messeges to ladies on TINDAH and okc and never getting a reply
Nature is boring and bears will eat you. (either kind of bear)
..do incels not know that the height thing is pretty much a meme? i dont know a single woman who actually cares about your height. ive dated a guy shorter than me, and I'm 5'1.   also, ive also lurked r/braincels & can confirm that almost every single selfie post i've seen, is of a pretty average looking dude that would be totally dateable if he improved his character.
This was so moving, touching and informatic.
"Volcel if you wouldn't" is the best line I've heard in a long while.
Is contrapoints a play on the word counterpoint?
Everything you've said is true. But the blackpill just makes more sense. You try all this "clean your room" shite and it gets you nowhere. I could do more of the self-improvement stuff but I'd feel cheated, no woman has had to do that, no good-looking men need to develop personality before they can get respect and admiration. It's like it'll never be enough for me but everyone else's flaws get accepted or tolerated. So what if I'm not good at telling jokes or make much money or if I don't do much, I still have a job, I'm in reasonable shape, I'm tall that should be enough.
This is the most emotionally open and vulnerable and honest *_comment section_* I've ever seen on YouTube, and I'm really appreciating it.
You look really pretty
"...wrapped around every inch of your..."   That's not how it works! That's not how any of this works!
God damn.  An excellent and empathetic critique of the Incel mindset from an alternate experience. You show that we can all benefit by sharing and comparing our experiences even when they differ.  We are not just our identities.   I wish more of you "SJW" types had your approach.  Good job Hon! : ).
I will now be starting the Church of Bread Scientology. When you want to free yourself from the yeastens lodged in your bone structure, grab ahold of my patiented cans. Join today for a 5% discount on our holy loafers.
I have an assignment due in 6 hours and I watched this entire thing. Feeling equally happy and resentful towards you, Nat. Thanks for the great vid as always
You look absolutely radiant in this video
*kisses fingers* a masterpiece!
"At least these pricks care enough about my pussy to be an asshole about my dick" Lmao I need that on a throw pillow or something
i'm a currycel and this video was shit, contrapoints, but i haven't seen the whole thing yet
i love you mom thank you 😊💗💗💗💗 i blocked websites from my computer back when i was being harassed a lot online and it helped me a lot!!! i highly recommend it
The sea IS hot. God damn global warming.
Natalie you're an inspiration to us all
"At least these pricks care enough about my pussy to be an asshole about my dick."  I fucking love that line omg
My girlfriend has a massive head, the TTTT people are wrong.
this is stupid because it's distorting the message. It's true that life will be hell if you transition and don't pass. You have to be prepared for that, instead, hons and other politically correct people will lie to individuals who are on the fence of transition. FFS will not change your headsize, that is true too. And there are no women with a man's skull. When I read "there are women with big heads" I laugh, because those big heads are NOT comparable to men's big heads.
This hierarchy has governed your life. Mark it well:  Feeling good  is better than feeling bad  is better than expending the energy necessary for change.
Women are hypergamous, but we live in a monogamous society, which allows most men to have a wife
When I was your age I didn't have no bone structure.Took me years to get bone structure. And don't think bone structure ain't important! Nobody started calling me mademoiselle until I turned 17 and started to get a little bone structure.
it's possible for someone to raise their "looks stat" or whatever the fuck it's called by 3 or more points by just ... being healthy. My strategy that's been working so far: cutting sugar out of your diet entirely, avoiding carbs that aren't fiber, restricting protein, taking your vitamins, drinking lots of water, and then burning off the resulting energy surplus with all the exercise you want (which you WILL want because you'll be so hyper). That and being a good person not for the sake of getting something but because you want to live in a world where people are good and you're leading by example. I never thought I'd ever have so many people who care about me XD   just like how all of us care about Contra, it's because she's put so much good into the world that it just comes back :D
I don't entirely agree with incels, however, there is some truth to the whole cock carousel thing. There are a lot of young girls are openly proud of fucking all the studs and then finding a rich dweeb later on in life to provide for her.
The same internet era that has allowed these sad whackjobs to congregate, has also allowed women to base mate selection less on looks than ever before. Trust me, if I meet you on a dating site and you don't have a profile pic, if you say all the right things to me, I WILL fuck you. I might meet you in person and be like, "Oh fuck, he's ugly" (although my standards of beauty, like many women's, is very different from what men expect). But either way, if I don't like your face but you've already won me over anonymously, the sex is inevitable. You obviously know how to meet people anonymously through the internet, so yeah, it's probably your shitty personality.
I was so excited to see a new Contrapoints video. They keep getting better, and Natalie omg. Your sets and outfits and costumes have only continued to get more grand and beautiful, and the goddess look suits you. :)  Every new vid I'm like   T H I S  I S  M Y  A E S T H E T I C .
The first minute and a half was so triggering, I could only watch it once. I never saw myself as an incel because I don't hate women but after seeing this, I guess I kind of am. I never have gone to the incel subreddits before or know of their terms (ex redpill, blackpill) but when described, I instantly related to them as I had felt that way for a decent amount of time. I don't blame women or feminism for my despair and don't really care about those who do as these feelings have grown serious enough to take lives. It is hard to see life as worth living most recently.
Damn... Us SandCels are so ugly that they don't even get a mention in any videos about incels. Same with Chaddams. This proves that no matter how hard I try, I can never ascend as a SandCel. Thank you for the confirmation Contra, I can ldar in peace without having to worry about ascending now.
This channel needs to to be picked up by +Vice
I consider myself unfuckable, ugly and too introverted and weird to relate to normal people and this video was pretty hard to watch.  It hit me right in the gut, especially the parts about digital self harm, black pills and lay down and rot.  Its hard to explain but that negative feedback loop gives me a kind of rush and I guess in a kind of weird way happy that all my shitty beliefs are being confirmed.  I'm too old to change at this point in my life but my one saving grace is that i have never blamed women for my problems and I never started identifying as an incel.  Alot of these incels are very right wing, bigoted and racist and I wanted no part of that.  Im just a regular ass loser, not part of any secret club.  I hate myself, not other people.  Over time I started blaming god.   It didnt happen overnight but as the years wore me down I started to anthropomorphize god and I guess I came to the conclusion that god has always been conspiring against me and takes pleasure in seeing me suffer.  I guess to me this is a safe way to be angry at something because its not like I can punch god in the face or confront him but thinking about it sometimes gives me a pain in my chest.
What the fuck Natalie why do I want to seduce the literal Earth
Kudos to Olly for the dramatic reading.
Holy shit, I can't believe the discovery and description of Foppington's Law is only now at this late stage elucidated, but am not at all surprised that it is the fancy Lady Foppington who bestows it upon us!
I love this video, thank you for this
i kinda miss the old contra, maybe im gay
I think they are just lonely men who are also virgins .
13 min in....and,  TERRIFIED!
You'll always pass MY arbitrary skull shape test, my darling Contra.
Alpha: BAAAAAAAANG
The best thing about this video is that I got to shake my head at incel before realizing that a part of me is just like them.
Loving the David Attenborough-esque voice over for the Stacy/Chad parts
there are tons of women who don't get messages tho. be it black women or "fobby" brown women
If I was still a dude i dont know  Wat I'd be since I'd still be attracted to men and look feminine. So wat would I be called lol
Thank you.  Thank you for this video, Natalie. I never thought someone would speak to me over a YouTube video.  Thank you so, so much.
For what it's worth Contra, I don't think you need ffs. You'll probably look great with it, but I think you look super femme as you are. But you do you boo boo! <3
The part about the "chaidsplaining" is actually probably the smartest and most accurate thing to come out of incel jargon.  Abled and neuro-typical people do this to disabled and mentally ill people ALL THE TIME.  Depression? Just go for a walk.  Anxiety? Just read a book.  These are serious disorders that are tricky to deal with and often require therapy or medication.  For Incels, it's the same thing, no amount of patronizing head-patting will help them crawl out of the dark place they've dug themselves into.  Seeing a prostitute or having a woman being nice to them won't solve the problem (NEITHER WILL FORCING WOMEN TO MARRY THEM, JORDAN PETERSON)  These people need therapy, and I don't really have sympathy for people who can't go and get themselves the help they need because I know the sympathy harms them more than helps them.
Well fiddle dee dee. I'll never wrap my womanly mind around all this bread science. (also, for what it's worth, I'm a cis woman with a REALLY BIG HEAD, so we're out there, not that it should matter)
Glad to have another Contra video!!! ❤️❤️❤️☺️
Big-skulled women don't exist? I'm average-height, slender-boned, and have to have to pay out the nose to have cute hats custom-made by a milliner because there are no decent hats made for women with a 24" circumference skull.
I expected a video poking fun about incels but this is so much better. I feel like you were able to bring your personal experiences into it to create something more original and empathetic. Also, it was pretty funny too.
I have nothing intellectual to add, because you've said it all, so I'll simply say 1) thank you for doing this with such genuine compassion and 2) the lighting in the third segment was fuckin beautiful.
One word: Evaporative cooling of group beliefs. Well, that's sort of five words but one term.
nearly 100,000 views in under half a day!!!!! <3
Rock n Roll had such a good run, I thought it would never die.
thank you Natalie <3
First date. What's your iq? How many mm is your chin? Ratio of your penis girth and length? How many hairs do you have exactly? Is there a history of balding in your family? How much muscle do you have?
* f e m o i d s *
I have gender dysphoria, and because I have a cleft lip/palate, boooone structure has always held me back from transitioning, though sex has never been a concern, as it is with incels, despite my appearance I've had a few decent relationships, but never anything fantastic, I guess. I'd love to transition, but I'm poor and look like a goblin (actually lack my front teeth because they were removed to build a roof to my mouth in, like, seventh grade. I'm fucking thirty). I don't subscribe to absurd red/black pill notions and guys uglier than me that I know are married. People just need to accept that not everyone gets some cringey Disney shit. Like, no, random virgin who refreshes an incel Reddit a hundred times a day, you probably won't date a super model. More people need to just accept who they are and that people aren't randomly entitled to date famous models and obsess over situations that will never happen. Reality's a bitch, and the issue is people think they are 'getting real' by accepting strange subreddits and fringe groups of admitted losers.
❤️
Nathalie obviously put down a lot of work into this and managed to empathize with our issues better than most normies ever would care to do. She even attempted to portray us as human! Reading the comments however I can only say I'm so sorry it was all in vain.
I'm glad I dodged the incel bullet. I almost perfectly fit the target demographic for incel propaganda. Everything changed when I stopped blaming women for my problems and quit assigning sex as a way to measure life fulfillment, and I met my current girlfriend almost immediately afterward.   If anyone is straddling the incel line, everything will change once you realize how awe-inspiringly unimportant sex is. Ironically, that opens the door to getting a lot more sex.
This may sound a bit obvious, but I think the biggest trap that incels fall into is one of community. They are hurting and feel alone, and here are these guys saying what sounds reasonable, even rational, to someone who just pre-rejected themselves from even talking to the girl they like. When you brought up the notion of Incels being a Death Cult, I think you are 100% right, and like any good cult they know exactly how to draw in the vulnerable, isolate them further, and then brainwash them to believe whatever it is they are pushing, even well... Death. But hey at least these guys get it maaaaaan.
this video reminds me of the thinspo community on tumblr
the word “femoid” will never fail to make me laugh. it sounds like something a saturday morning cartoon villain would say
Red Pill school of thought is based entirely on the objective observance of human behavior, as well as science from FEMALE scientists such as this one:  https://youtu.be/-LZZJTR0GxE  It can no longer be refuted that the grand majority of women prefer masculine men.  It is literally, according to science, due to the amount of testosterone a male has, as well as other genetic markers.  Keep in mind, we are talking about sexual attraction, and not relationships.  There are many people who would have sex with a person that they wouldn't want to have a relationship with.  However, when they repeatedly pass up others who are relationship material for people who aren't due to lust only, it tends to take a toll on the people who want a real relationship.  That particular experience isn't just exclusive to males.. and  plenty of females resent and complain about men that do that..  now it is just women doing the same.  It is a race to the bottom with the loss of morality..
Wow that pink and green lighting is really killer!
Contra, I always appreciate that you're willing to approach things from a critical, yet not judgmental perspective. That you analyze things, sympathize with people, and try to see the whole story. Keep being awesome.
Your facial bone structure is fine. I'd totally skull fuck you.  The bone structure thing is just overblown nonsense. Most women have masculine looking faces. I've seen more women with strong masculine jaw lines than Ive seen men with them.
Thank you for your insight!
this was very touching, Natalie. I can honestly see how I once could have gone into the incel mindset. I've been working towards being better and healthier, and while I haven't had sex yet, I'm not bothered by it. I've been having fun on tinder, connecting with women and being excited about meeting new people. not for the sex, just for the joy of getting to discover new people. thanks for the video!
“Calm down lesbian stans” i was literally about to go on an internal monologue about how sad i would be if you were hetero you fucking laser pointer i love you
Man it's *super* weird to hear the PhilosophyTube guy describing sex.  "In his seminal work 'Discipline and Punish', Faucault argues that you'll never get pussy because your skeleton is inferior"
[F L A T  M E N  T H E O R Y]
"the firing squad of bad dicks that's constantly pointing at us"  LMAO
Looking hot af in the thumbnail
Your genitalia was and is and shall be sacred, don't listen to them.
where the fuck you get calipers?
I sense this one will feel personal. :-/
I am so glad you did something on incels! We needed you so badly to defend the women who are genuinely terrified of these people.
contrapoints i think all your videos are so good but can never describe why i like them. either your level of artistry is going way over my head or im just in love with you
Fuck the incels
bold opening, contra
how you made this without laughing tho :')
Natalie this is going to save lives! You’re amazing ❤️
THE DAVID ATTENBOROUGH VOICE KILLS ME
jesus christ contra i have to stop the video every 3 minutes it's so painful
How do you always have the most amazing lighting?
I was going to dislike this video, but the second half was good, here are some points though:  'blame the sin not the sinner' these are bad actions, however it is important to not make a strawman out of a negative lifestyle, bring these sad souls back to the fray.  there is nothing inherently wrong with: incels  pick up artists (though there's a fine line, 'real social dynamics'  RSD however seems to be great for self improvement) MRAs  MIGTOW just as there is nothing inherently wrong with 'equality of the sexes' in the form of feminism, lots of people deflect blame or responsibility in negative ways, tradesmen do this, bitchy women do this, immigrants do this, people need to create better divides . between self-responsibility and negative social effects.   "[women are] not loveable [to wannabe chads]" to some maybe, however a lot of "red pill" males see many women as having to high a standard of themselves, which is true in many cases, and that self value should not be naively presumed.   "[Jordan Peterson] is a sexist old man" that is a far stretch, however if anyone has some evidence to the contrary tell me.  "you'll-never-know-what-its-like-to-squeeze-life-out-of-your-secret-passage" I laughed so hard
How does one fuck a landscape?
Your videos are so well made and entertaining, not to mention educational. Please keep it up.
amazing video as always, brava.
You hit it out of the park, Natalie! Aesthetics, message, etc all on point.
This actually made me think about incels and their websites in a very different way. It also made me think differently about myself since I've kind of had a hard time internalizing positive comments like you said you were. Thanks for helping me realize this. I hope you feel better from all those mean comments.
Great male voiceover. Real emotive.
i really don't know what i expected going in but i was absolutely not prepared for such a complete, well thought out and honest account of problematic tendencies within the culture of modern sexuality and trans individuals. it was also pretty entertaining and absolutely educational.  i hope these social anomie eventually subside as we culturally adjust to our infinitely connected world. i think a major negative side effect of living like we do is that natural feelings of isolation and loneliness get magnified against the backdrop of apparent constant connectedness that we are lead to believe is a truly typical experience.
The thing about Chad-splaining really stuck out to me, because I've articulated something similar to that before. I had a friend (a girl) who was absolutely convinced that she would never have a romantic relationship. Any advice or consolation I gave her was utterly useless, I realized, because to her, it must have looked like a millionaire telling a poor person that the key to success is "working hard." Sure, some things might be universally applicable, but the deck is clearly stacked from the start. And at the time, I was dating two people, and she was single. What could I possibly tell her that wouldn't look like I was rubbing her face in my romantic success?  I say "had" a friend, by the way, because she killed herself. The lack of romantic relationships wasn't the sole cause, I think (she was in a pretty depressing social and financial situation), but it was definitely a factor. The black pill spiral thing (catastrophizing and denying all reasonable attempts at injecting logic) is absolutely something I recognize because she had it pretty badly.
This was beautiful 😅😥
Speaking as someone who (years ago) could have very easily become an incel, I feel pretty bad for them. I don't agree at all with their whole red pill/black pill theorizing, but I can sympathize with the depressed, lonely side of it. I think a big help for me was things like a little bit of college, getting a job, and managing to have friends who cared enough about me to pull me out of the depression slump I was in.  I mean, I still think a lot of people are totally self-loathing. Nobody likes who they are. Everybody has these dumb, nonsensical irrational insecurities. Which I find so...beautifully ironic. I don't know if you were joking about your whole bone structure thing, TBH I think you look just fine. But to you, whatever you don't like is a HUGE PROBLEM. Just like what you said about the incel selfies---these are all pretty average looking dudes. Some of them may even look decently attractive if they put in the effort to clean themselves up and work on being more photogenic. To them, though, they think they're below garbage. They think their entire life is hopeless, and all based on what? These irrational thoughts of self-loathing.  But I think you know as well as I do that there's a difference between overzealous self-loathing and hating how your hair isn't cooperating with you today. For incels, it's all very overzealous.  Anyway, what saved me from my mental retardation was the very thing I had spent all my life hiding from --- being social. Ironically, socializing and making friends and going out is what made me reach the realization that EVERYBODY has stupid insecurities. What one person stresses over is something that I would think was nothing to get worked up about. It made me also realize that there are tons of dudes way uglier than I am with pretty attractive women. It made me realize what all of these people meant by "be yourself".  I just want to find an incel and try to help them discover themselves. I honestly don't think it's possible to crawl out of that void on your own. You need a helping hand. It all starts with you, for sure. You have to be willing to grab whatever hand reaches out to you. But that's honestly a very easy thing to do. It's not that hard to accept. I know from experience.  Idk if you bother reading all of your comments, but if you do, thanks for reading. If that face surgery thing is real, I hope you get the look you're aiming for.
You really have to wonder if these chronic, shithead losers really think their lives would be any better if some poor girl ever did pity fuck them...  Like...Then what?  Will years of stewing in their own self loathing and bitterness towards everyone else and doing fuck all with their lives suddenly be erased but they finally get to nut in another person once?    It never even crosses any of these nerds minds that there are many women who are just as unattractive, unpopular and starved of self  assurance as they are.  Given many incels admit to having shit personalities too (mainly as a troll-shielding mechanism), I know its not a matter of "muh' inner beauty"  If you're someone who not only refuses to give women in your own league the time of day because you feel entitled to "something better" but also conflates your own self worth and ideas towards women so heavily with "getting laid/losing that V card" go fuck yourself.  Grow up, get the fuck off the internet, go outside and talk to people.
Fuck this video is so good.....
Tell me more about your attraction to the sea 8-)
Women are objects much...?
Incels, the only group that produces more mass murderers than the american school system.
Thank you so much for introducing me to the term "masochistic epistemology". This has been my worldview for as long as I can remember. It was always very difficult to explain to people since it obviously makes no logical sense. At the same time it was difficult to combat alone because on a feeling level it made complete sense. Having a term like this really helps me stay grounded in reality...thank you!
Is it weird I consider you a friend?
I wonder if she'll do the opposite of incel: MGTOW  If Incels were a bunch of people who do nothing but bitch because they can't find any meat and the butchers won't sell to them, then MGTOWs would be militant vegans.
Just gonna play devils advocate here: not all of those in the Manosphere believe in Red Pill Theory. Most MRAs and some MGTOWs, for example.
Hearing the voice of the ultimate sweetheart Olly reading this awful misogynistic comments really confused my brain. Ps: Natalie you are a beautifully talented goddess and I have a gigantic crush on you
thanks hontra, very cool!
"China censored this video because you mentioned Winnie the Pooh and used the letter N throughout. Your stay at a reeducation center with the Uighyar Muslims has been scheduled and you will be notified shortly. The CCP thanks you for your understanding and cooperation."  - Emperor Xi Jinping
I know you think Nietzsche sucks, but he was right about one thing... "When one stares into the abyss, the abyss stares also into you." It's affecting when you allow the monsters to colonize a portion of your imagination.
How dreamy is Natalie?
Contra, it is amazing how you keep your videos' quality so high and consistent, you are a goddess among YouTubers. While I really did not want to empathize with incel men, I admit you did tug at my heartstrings with your bit on digital self-harm.  The only thing I felt was missing from this video was a bit on women who are incels. There have been NUMEROUS attempts at creating a women's only space for women who can't find dates and feel ugly, but they always ended up deleted because incels would write horrible messages about how every woman there was a narcissist, all her problems were her own fault, and imagining grotesque scenarios about the various ways these women could lose their virginity.  I've even read a few articles on the topic (although they're hard to find since articles for incels are about twenty times more common), and the comments always included guys posting the same comments about how all single women are either grotesque or too demanding.  While incel communities are toxic, they are at least a community. Women don't even have that. It's kind of terrible how the assumption that women are just selecting the best Chad cocks atop their golden throne can seriously damage the self-esteem of women and especially teenage girls.  TL;DR: Girls go through the same shit, but with way less support and sympathy.
The fact that people really think this way deeply depresses me. But the fact that you're an icon makes it a little better.
As a men's rights activist, I want you to know I like your channel. I don't care what a bunch trolls on 4 Chan say, you have a wonderful skull. 10/10 would skull fuck  Na for real though, I like your channel. I don't agree with every thing you say, but you do a good job presenting your information, and have a pretty good sense of humor. . . . . What color are your spatulas
I tried reaching out to an incel about incel stuff and why he might feel unable to get a gf... at some point he stopped replying but today I hit him up to ask him how he was doing and he just replied: just got done having sexy time with this woman from the phillipines lol  ¯\_(ツ)_/¯
You're very smart, beautiful, and lovable. Your confidence is always increasing, because, I imagine, you're getting laid a lot. Your channel is becoming more and more popular. The content is complex and fascinating. And I look forward to watching future videos and following your career, you lovely thing.
12:11 pretty sure thats a breadmaker in the background. no lie, they make good bread, but its about as complicated as a coffee maker. very scientific.
Natalie, thank you for your emotional labor.
So...Cthulu?
It seems like the comment section is filled with people attributing their own mental disorders to what could be causing the distortions that incels come up with, so I guess I'll add my own. I wonder how many incels have a fear of intimacy, and found that self-harm and deflecting on feminism was the path of least resistance. They want to characterize themselves as "repulsive" in a passive way such as by their looks or social skill, but are actually *very* active in repelling people away from them, perhaps reflexively ("involuntarily"?).  Like, in the abstract, I'm lonely for someone who I can share my life with, but when it comes to the nuts and bolts of actually forming and maintaining an intimate relationship, it's fear, uncertainty and doubt all the way down. About insufficiency, about causing arguments that didn't need to happen, about a perpetual guilt that you aren't doing enough or even the bare minimum, and then expressing your deficiency through extraordinary defensiveness with your girlfriend. Or maybe she IS being unreasonable, but you absorb it as your fault anyway, forming an unhealthy codependent situation. And knowing that's exactly what you're doing, but being too afraid to say so because you're a coward, and unable or unwilling to do anything about it even if you could somehow convey it.  I guess I'm saying that my one or two attempts at relationships (which for the record did not get beyond 2nd base because I was too afraid to go any further) didn't work out that well and reinforced my fear. I could easily see that turning into blaming the entire world for my fear, or just indulging wholeheartedly in hopelessness, if I wasn't already painfully aware that that's bullshit. But I'm also unwilling/unable to face my fear and seek appropriate help, if help even exists. I went to a therapist, which helped in other areas, but was too afraid to even bring it up.
WOW YOU LOOK INCREDIBLE
i just wanna know why the subreddit called "bra incels"
"The Chad Circumference"  may be one of the funniest things I've ever seen.
Why do they obsess over Stacy? Her mom's where it's at.
10/10 interesting content. great vid! i don know what else to say fam
God I love you
You're so beautiful Contra. First time watching, appreciate you taking the labour to break down the discourse, I did not know what this disgusting hullabaloo was about
Hey Just got to know your Channel, nice vid, you are one funny tranny
I watched this in a rainstorm.
Everyone loves talking about what horrible pieces of trash incels are but few people are actually addressing the issue why people became incels and sorry to break it too you but the way our society is going and how our social interactions happen now, it is leading and will lead too more people identifying with the incel community. The more popular you are, more opportunities you're gonna get too be even more popular. Friends don't just fall out of the sky like most seem to think. If you don't find friends in the social environments you're forced into like school in your childhood it's going to be increasingly harder for you too find them and you're going to be feeling like youre wasting your life more and more.
the 'Stacy' and 'Chad' are ironic self absorbed characters that first appear as desirable but are actually ironically bad  the first 'chad' memes featured chad having a stupid walk, chad lifting with his back instead of his knees and chad being unable to drive properly  these incel normals didn't understand the joke
This video is viscerally uncomfortable.
Imagine how an ocean feels,
This is actually such a good video for people in these communities. 35 minutes is a lot to ask, but I'd hope at least a few take the time and get better.
few videos get me going 35 minutes through them without skipping or getting disinterested, great content
I've seen a lot of the anime and a bit of the video game community where there is a lot of the forever alone self deprecating humor. But the incel community seems to lack that spark of hope that even the darker parts have with the fact that they still have their anime or games. The inherent hopelessness of the mindset just leads to a downward spiral.
I'm not part of this community in any case nor am depressed or friendless but I am absolutely convinced I CANNOT be found attractive and have no reason whatsoever to date again, and probably will never try.
For most of my high school years I Had a very "incel" like way of thinking. for me it mainly came from a lot of things like, Pornographic stereotypes of what women want, my very thin frame, and a very small friend circle. As I got older around mid high school I began seeking therapy and talking about myself. I realized my own faults and my political views switched a lot during that time. My school mates feared me as a possible Eliot Roger and that fear made me feel like a monster and swerve into depression. Therapy works and If anyone who has these feelings needs help I offer you the warm embrace of my friendship. There is so much more in the world than what the internet has made us think. Thank you Natalie
Well, when you say it out loud like that it sounds kind of silly!
As a woman, born as a woman,, with a thick neck and large skull, fuck you 4 chan commenter. Also contrapoints, you look very feminine and gorgeous, honestly.
20:50 dying
This may be your best video. So much critical compassion, truly thoughtful yet direct analysis. Love you! keep it up!
For sure the most insightful video on Incels ever made, well done.
Love your videos Contra, and youre not beautiful, youre gorgeous inside and out! (Going to be worried about calling people hon now lol)
i thought natalie was married to a woman?
What's with all the nature porn, is there something I'm missing?
A lot of women would look like a male (at least a young male) if you simply cut their hair. I'm not talking about "ugly" women, I'm talking about average and even pretty women. Some guys too, would look like females if they shaved or changed they hairstyle..  I think people in general have a very cartoonish mental image of human sexual dymorphyism. And let's not get into the way * b e a u t y s t a n d a r d s* contribute to forming that image.
Regardless ofmy gender and yours and whatever else, I love you.
BAKING IS SCIENCE I AM A MAN I SWEAR
Roosh says take the Bread Pill
Virgin vs Chad memes were intended to be ironic parodies of Incel type logic on how people view one another. Unfortunately they adopt them unironically  Also: perfectly unsettling music and lighting choices to really sell that Incels are not just a joke and they are a genuinely upsetting ideology
*F E E E E E E E E E E E E E E E EMOID*
So thankful that you share your voice with us, such an honest and real perspective, for me this felt like one of your best videos, I’m someone who’s struggled with self harm in the past and so looking at incels from that perspective really helps me at least understand a little more. Now of course none of that excuses the violent rhetoric and actions but it is a new perspective
why not just find incel women
You made the best “incel response” video I’ve seen!! You just really know what you’re talking about because you do the research. Before watching this, I had a very one-dimensional view of incels: that they were just some sad dorky kids on reddit with poisonous ideas, which is still partially true but there’s more to it than that. I love your videos so much!!!
22:30 onward - please do an ASMR video
Thiis was...depressing, and really true. "What hurts is true" sounds too familiar for me, I thought I was the only one who did it.
Your earrings remind me of vaginal beads but I love you and you pull them off SO YAS QUEEN
Contra, you don't look like a man. At all. Your are goals level of gorgeous.
"How dare you say things that are entirely true!" This is what I love about you.  You and Lindsey Ellis have such a way with being entirely informed and very nuanced in your research and discussion, and then breaking that up with the most subtle and effective humor.   You and Lindsey are BOTH severely and CRIMINALLY underappreciated channels on Youtube.
I wish you were my neighbour.  yep, I wish I had you as my neighbour
Hey i know that voice
Haven't clicked on a video faster.
hugbox = hug + inbox?? someone explain pls haha
So basically, incels thrive off the old stereotype that all women care about are looks and how much a man can give them when they go shopping. There are certainly people who place materialism and shallowness above all else, but it's grossly ignorant to believe it's gender exclusive. I know more men guilty of this shit than women, and the biggest turnoff for most is a self-absorbed narcissist. It's like these fucks watched an episode of the Kardashians and based their world view on it.
Every new Contrapoints video adds years to my life
Takeaways: People need self esteem to avoid becoming skullmen. Also, let's go swimming!!!!
I always get a kick out of normies flailing wildly in their misinterpretation of irony.
Roosh V: I'm bread man! Kropotkin: HMB
Please do skull asmr
Just make friends lol
Why are they so obsessed with getting fucked? Sex is apparently great according to a lot of people, but it's not enough to complain about for the rest of your life.
I grew up with Autism. I had a shit social life for a long time, virtually no love life until 18, and still deal with the repercussions of that (depression, self harm, anxiety). However, I learned to use the disability I have to be more attractive and it worked. Women often love passionate men and men who are good listeners. All I had to do was ask about their interests and discuss my own and it worked! My doughy autistic white ass got laid! So this concept that certain men are just sexually inferior is toxic and makes men like this settle for mediocrity at best and kill people at worst. It is a dangerous ideology and I hope it doesn't gain traction.
So, I have a ton of incel friends, and I've learned something about them; it doesn't matter if you have sex or get a girlfriend, you will always be an incel. I had one friend in particular who was a virgin with rage that hated women and all that awful stuff, eventually he go a long term girlfriend and he stopped being an incel, but the moment they broke up, the moment he left her, he became an incel again.
this fucking background music doesn't help either
You almost made myself cry
The last part is something I can almost understand, despite it being so extreme. The issue is that it's irrational, they hate the feeling of inferiority, but they think that enforced inferiority is coming from women. The truth is is we live in a really unhealthy society when it comes to things like sex and women. Sexualized advertisements of women are EVERYWHERE, they are in every movie and every tv show. Then there's the unlimited access to pornography. If you can't see the problem is the representation of women, the idea that getting attractive women equals self worth and status is fucked up - then you will hate and blame women rather than the culture and society that made this so. You can't escape it, and I do think it can breed these feelings of hate and rage combined with other mindsets.    I just think it's very similar to working class rage that can manifest itself into hatred of minorities or turning to white nationalism. They are targeting their feelings of discontent in completely wrong and harmful ways.
Natalie is the best and most beautiful Internet Bigotry Scholar and i thank her for trekking through the agony of such spaces for sake of sharing videos as intelligent as these. Also, thank you for relatably eroticising the ocean.
Insightful
18:45 What's the problematic thing?
It’s crazy how much influence these forums can have on your self esteem. I went on the forums and thought that I would never be able to find love or be attractive to women even though I had already been in relationships with attractive and popular women and I’d already had sex multiple times.  It’s really not that difficult to attract a partner. You really just need to remove all the toxic aspects of your personality and become more fun, confident and assertive. If you’re not assured of yourself then no one is gonna find that very attractive.
They embraced phonology? Ugh
Natalie, your videos combine the things I love the most: social, political and philosophical analysis of our world and beautiful, beautiful aesthetics. I find it hard to put in words the way I feel when I watch these works of art, but it is amazing.
HO LY SHIT
A new video? Thanks, mum
Well now I have to go fuck a puddle. Thanks for that, you beautiful degenerate.
if you're a girl who likes girls the silence of an empty inbox is all you ever "hear"
You are a gorgeous goddess! As well, this video really made me self-reflect. Thank you for continuing educate as well as entertain and make me laugh like a hyena. I hope you find nothing but happiness in your continued journeys, Natalie.
I found the idea of a therapeutic rather than logical or ideological method for engaging with incel communities to be a really amazing idea and one that had never occurred to me. I’m going to do my best to keep that in mind.
You are a gorgeous goddess.
I really appreciate the vulnerability you show in these videos. And as a cis-het male, I want to say you have beautiful bones. this is not flirting, just a statement of aesthetic.
God this hits hard. Fuck you contrapoints. I am a trans woman and at the start of transition and even now people consider me attractive and passable. It's been almost a decade since I started. I had my downstairs surgery. I hold down a job in a woman dominated industry. I still don't believe any of that shit. I saw it as people being nice. Lying their assets off so I wouldn't off myself. I seem to remember someone I knew posted pictures of me on 7chan and people were talking about how jealous they were. Wtf?   I got over it (after a suicide attempt) by refusing to look at myself in the mirror, not asking my friends how I look or if I passed anymore, and focusing on things I could control like my artwork. It worked, and now I comfortably leave the house without makeup on all the time, even while sober! It was a shitload of work to get to this point and I still dislike my face and body pretty hard, but lack the funds to get a boob job or whatever.   Life is hard, but what are ya gonna do?
You really hit the nail on the head about Tinder.
ContraPoints for President!!
Why is    B R E A D   S C I E N T I S T   not Kropotkin??
come to brazilllll
Do these videos get translated into Japanese or Cantonese?  While inceldom seems to mostly include white men, Japan in particular has a huge problem with lonely men who never even try to find companionship and might end up in this mess.
You may be the funniest person on the Internet. Great work. Informative comment isn't often witty on YouTube, but you're doing a top notch job. Very good, creative lighting, too. That's very consistent throughout your videos.
Roast beef is delicious
I have a big head. Like a really big head. Oh god.
She B L I N D E D  M E With B R E A D  S C I E N C E
Interesting, i have social anxiety and it involves one of the same processes of thinking that you described
What's really great about this too is seeing just how tied political ideologies are to sexuality.   I know for myself personally the difference between verging on becoming an alt-right mfer was that they would always tell me how feminists hate me, that i'm not going to be compatible with any woman because of my masculinity and that I'm doomed to be alone and angry. I just kept feeding that to myself with the videos I had watched.  It's all channeled into feminism since we all want someone to blame, but every time I would see a feminist at that time all I could think about was how society is casting me away, and that I'm not compatible with women, that I would never have a relationship, or happiness etc.   One problem is I think that masculinity isn't really given to men after puberty, its earned through being good with women, and when you believe there's this over arching conspiracy to isolate your dick from society, then you start to believe your worthless, but only because you are being suppressed.  Idk, I think this is such a huge underlying motivator for a lot of men to join in these ways of thinking, i'm just glad I was able to find channels like these for real.
This video was really helpful to me. Thanks, Nat. <3
Nathalie assumes we all have a chance of becoming socially functional (just stop hating women/stop browsing 4chan) despite years upon years social anxiety, depression, rejection and alienation. Good for her she has enough self-esteem/social support to somewhat work through her mental issues but truth is for many of us the only option is isolation/death.
While it's true that ugly men can get laid, as long as they make the effort to make friends... they do NOT need to get off the computer or go outside to accomplish this. Hookup culture and online dating are very easy and free. You don't even need to leave your house, other than to meet someone from the internet in a public space. Once you prove to them that you're not a serial killer, most women who are actually interested in you, will be willing to show up at your house. And even if you're fart and bald with no job, you can probably still find a woman online who wants to bang you. Plenty of women act like incels, they are just not part of the specific community.
Thank you for wading through the cesspools of the internet for us. You are the hero we do not deserve and didn't know we needed.
My first sexual girlfriend had a larger head than me and a stronger jaw, just saying.  She was taller than me too, so, y'know, don't overthink what you assume people care about because they proly don' actually give a shit.  Also yes I sussed out it was a guy in the crying game and my brother was all 'no way, you heard about the movie' which nope so I'm not oblivious n shit.  To be honest I didn't figure out fight club though, I was all 'get away from that crazy motherfucker.  That shit is all going to end badly' so I'm not Sherlock either.  Just go out and have fun, I've never met a girlfriend when I was out looking for a girlfriend; they always just seem to find me when I'm already having fun and happy.  Funny that.    edit: actually I'm not sure if her head was bigger or not, I may be thinking it is now just because of this viddie reframing my memories but truth to tell I didn't and don't really give a fuck if it was or not.  I remember her jaw though because she would click it when she ate sometimes and it bugged me but I was such a relationship noob then that I didn't know how to address it or that everyone is going to do aggravating shit and your best bet is to ask your partner what aggravating shit you do that upsets them so you can sort it.  Guess what they'll ask you back.
This video was literally perfect. Thank you for creating it.
Natalie how do you endure these communities.... O_O
this makes me so uncomfrotable
You're absolutely right, we have to bring back rock and metal and siiiick fucking guitar riffage.....I've been waiting for like two years for you to say this.
Such a huge crush on you
3:23 +1
Have Incels considered they just have shitty personalities, an unattractive amount of self loathing, and a fucked ego?
I can't wait for the ContraPoints Erotic Boat Tour with Natalie as tour guide.
29:18 Ollie!
Is it just me or has the lighting gotten less bisexual and more genderqueer?
The Black Pill is the incel one. The Red Pill is a different thing.
Nat, you are awesome!
The thing that is utterly bizarre to me is how apparently obsessed with getting laid they are - yet seem to be extremely judgmental of women's looks - just as they are about their own, much more of an extent than your average guy ever is about women's looks. It is in every sense of a self fulfilling prophecy, they don't even seem to want most women - so how can they expect to attract them if they don't want want them? I mean they are apparently utterly contemptuous of working women wearing their hair up and having cheap backpacks, lol wtf? I am sorry, but it is pretty bizarre. They just described almost every single female university student.
Natalie, this is a really good video, and each of your videos seems better than the last one. Comprehensive but humorous overview of the issue, sensible interpretation, good aesthetics and editing and all that.   I'm pretty much the prototypical incel, or maybe the lower end of normie anyway. I check most of the boxes. 5'6", feminine skull, baby wrists and scrawny. Not the most masculine voice either. The only thing I have going for me in their book is a little bit of forward facial growth and blue eyes. Yet, I've had (to my own surprise) more than one girl in the past 6 months take the initiative and express interest in me, one of them being what these guys would call at least a 9 if not a 10 (I was "her type"). Not to brag. I have obsessed about my features and to be honest, the incels are half right. But from the past few months I've realized if you wanna be what they call a "hopecel", just imitate the exact opposite of every personality trait that these guys assume, and you'll be fine.  Also, you're right about TTTT. It's a brain-rotting cesspool. And I've never heard of digital self-harm, but that's a really interesting and relevant concept that I'm glad you brought up. Now that it's named, I can recognize it in my own behavior and in others too. Anyway dope video.
Nat, if you feel like shaving away bones be my guest but I got one extra bone for you *right here* if you ever need one ;)  Sincerely  Kain (normal dude that find you fuckable)
dude im too high for tis shit bad vibes
Holy shit I remember reading people like Dawkins the selfish gene and other pop science books that often made speculative forays into Evo/psych. It seemed almost funny at the time reducing human behavior to animal biological behavior. Sometimes it was amusing to reduce the dating scene to mating courtship behavior of primates. Little did I know that pop/science ideas would become an ideology two decades later. Holy shit people take certain ideas way too seriously.
Fluid ontology. It's beginning.
I got slightly horny at the end  Should i seek medical help?
I want more Contra-content, but I know perfection can't be rushed. THIS IS THE CRUX OF MY LIFE!
Natalie, i dont understand how you could think that skull proportions don't play a role in gaining sexual partners. Its been known for centuries that things like a strong jawline on a man are more attractive.  Its the same thing even with the wrists. I mean yeah of course no one should obsess about their wrist size and give up on finding partners because of it. But its wrong to suggest that a man having a small 4 inch wrist (thats extremely small) isnt less attractive because of it. Its simple natural selection. People naturally want to mate with partners who appear genetically healthy.
Why does Incel sound like Incest
I just can't get over how amazing you are
6:52  Phrenology 2.0  ... fucking Christ....laughing my ass off...
Nailed it again Contra you bloody legend!! And for the dudes who have been reached by this vid and who are ready to stop hatin' and start datin' I'm just going to leave this here... http://www.doctornerdlove.com/
I just hope the straight ginger Incels get their shit together and start filling the dry market of straight male ginger porn.
Love and lust for people  is over rated, too busy astral projecting with demons 😈
I wonder if part of the intense hatred of women by many Incels stems from an assumption that all men hate women equally but desperately desire women as symbols of manly status to elevate their standing in the eyes of the only people who matter to Incels, other men.
First few seconds.........imagine Olly Thorn? Yeah, I just want to imagine Olly a second.
Rock 'n' Roll will never die, how dare you :D
when you blame your inability to get a relationship on society and your bones but you don't even think to consider that you're not perfect and infallible and it might just be possible that it's not the other 7 or so billion people on this planet who are at fault.
Great video, I need more, more MORE....
Has anyone mentioned how the latter part of this video dealing with 4chan would couple pretty well with Shannon Strucci’s video about political correctness, or am I late to that party?
"-the Chads with the fuckable skulls..."  <----- I see what you did there.
As always, I'm blown away, not just by the intellectual labour you put into this, but your ability to show empathy and find humanity in the places where the rest of us have so much trouble seeing it.
That nail tapping on the skull was some nice ASMR
It's funny watching normies taking a bunch of tongue-in-cheek in-jokes and dissecting them like science.
I want to hear stuff about the redpillwoman subreddit, but great vid :).
I think this your best video yet! had me in stitches but also hit me in my feelings and stimulated my mind and caressed my intellect. Very good.
You get more gorgeous every time i see you babe  Swear I'm not hunning you. I'd legit ask you out
You made Olly say some terrible things, Contrapoints. For shame!
I came for the aesthetic. I stayed for the brave and deeply personal analysis of how the social internet can feed into dangerous cycles of self-loathing and suicidal ideation. I subscribed for the Chopin.
This is easily the greatest video I have ever watched in my entire life.
This is a mood. My egg years were spent doing the same "all trans people are broken so if I think I am actually a dude I will be broken and die alone a short, ugly, baby face". Some times people just need to feel validated in their own self loathing and that's sad cause at the end of the day if you do step out and work on yourself then you live with the guilt that you fed the same in others and about others.
You look like the chick from babydriver
T H E   I N H E R E N T   E R O T I C I S M   O F   T H E   S E A
I want to be a bread scientist so bad
ur video was posted on an incel site!!!! this is how i found it, actually lmaoo....  it's really interesting to see how your points were all logical, you managed to somehow sympathize AND explain how you sympathize with these people in a smart, rational way.....and yet they manage to completely ignore it, saying things like "Just a slut looking for attention, nothing new" and "Behead this manbeast thing" .......how do we help people who refuse to listen?
It's okay to get hurt when you're rejected ....but when you base all of your life's problems on the fact that you can't get laid.....well....that's the reason you can't get laid.
Another fantastic video. I adore how you bring such nuisance to the more seedy elements of internet culture and doing so from a trans perspective is so rare. i related a ton to your speech about internet self harm. I did that exact thing in many ways over the years, and yes it truly does infect your thinking and make things so much worse.
This was the video that made me happy I subbed.
I just LOVE you!!!! This was amazing, as usual
Thank you so much for pronouncing chaise longue correctly.  It's not that I'm surprised  you did, it's just not something I get to enjoy very often.
There's a reason "It's Your Move" has become the iconic vaporwave song.
From our perspective femoid is quite suitable term because of women's ridiculous incapability to relate to these problems. Over years of discussing these issues I've received more understanding from stereotypical Chad-types.
I'm so proud of Natalie for coming out as a Hydrosexual.
Am I the only one who'd rather have becky than stacy? Stacy looks like shes had some massive plastic surgery
I remember, lo those many years ago, when I learned there was a youtube video of three people I had met the night before shit-talking me. I watched it on a loop while self-harming, just the way I had dug through people's livejournal drama to find their cruel comments about me. When I finally got on the right set of meds I stopped having that particular urge, and my crazy just manifests in very different ways
Excelent video as always.
My great grandfather was a bread scientist.  He really wanted to be a mathimatician but he was Swedish so he had to be a bread scientist.  He scienced so many pasties that he got diabetes. He this is true its science!  The diabetes gave him a mood disorder.  He would and throw dough.  He finally died.  Its hard being a bread scientist.
There was a survey on r/incels that said they're mostly between ages 17-26. They're immature blue balled children. Not to be taken seriously.
So, out of (extremely morbid) curiosity, I went and took a look at that 4chan board you mentioned.  I'm kind of shocked; they're responding to this video, and not in the way I expected.  Or, I mean, a LOT of people are responding in exactly the way I expected.  But I've seen quite a few comments really taking the term "digital self-harm" seriously and questioning the value of the group.  There's obviously so much toxicity and abuse there, but I really think in some small way you might have reached some of the folks on that forum already, and made them question if visiting places like that is really good for them. I know that wasn't altogether the intention of this video, and was kind of a tangent to relate that experience to that of incels, but I still thought you should know that on some microcosm at least a few people in one of the most dark and toxic corners of the web seem to be being reached.
I appreciate the level to which you talk about your own highly personal experiences. It's a shitty thing to do to yourself, but the understanding I get as a cis white male who is probably more bicurious than actually bi (if you'll excuse my tinder approach here I would be interested in your dick please don't cut it I bet it's beautiful (of course it's your body and I'm an internet random who instantly said something pointlessly retarded so legitimately ignore me))...  I lost my train of thought.   Point is you make me think in ways I probably wouldn't have otherwise, even though I think we have inherently similar viewpoints on the world - you have a perspective that I can never fully imagine, but you put it into words that give me the chance to empathize on a level I don't know if I really could otherwise. Again, it sucks so much the level to which you give up your own personal self for the sake of these videos, so I want you to know that it's HUGELY appreciated.   That intro story was weird. "Imagine how a woman feels." They wrote those words but didn't even consider the implication of trying to visualize a woman's point of view.
Praise the Dark Mother
I WAS JUST TRYING TO HIT A FRIKKIN BOWL AND EVERYTIME I TRIED, A BLEEP WOULD HAPPEN IN THE INTRO 😂
Masterful vid!
Not going to add anything to the conversation. But i really like her shirt, its so sparkly, wondering where she got it.
My jaw dropped toward the end of "4th base." I argue all the time that I'm an anarchist because I'm a humanist, but I know that, while I'm good at calling people on their shit, I'm really bad at feeling for them when I should. That you have and are willing to project that empathy is becoming one of the things I admire most about you as an artist and a public intellectual. (Sorry, you are one.)
When I get rude messages from men in Baltimore I usually just turn the other cheek...  and, you know, go to their homes and lick all their furniture.   *smiles and winks*
Well put together. Malmrose Projects also just released a video on the Red Pill community Part 7 which was also really really good. Thank-you for talking about this.
Holy f*ck, this video.  I've done it, too.
Hello from Baltimore! Don't have much to comment really but hi. ^_^
I thought all the incel videos were supposed to be turned in 2 months ago?
Self love is not always easy, eh?
Every video you make is a treat and you are a national treasure.
I think many incel or other self-abuse types seek out a sympathetic cohort because there are two possibilities and one is more frustrating than the other. One possibility is I am doomed and it is outside my control. Now that is miserable but there is relief in knowing it’s not my own fault. The other option is there is a path to happiness but despite my pondering it nearly constantly I can’t figure out how to get there. Now my suffering is entirely my own fault, I suffer because I am failing. That position allows for hope but is I think much more painful than the doom scenario.   An asteroid is coming which will end the world, that is terrible but one can arrive at a piece knowing there is nothing you can do, so you see your friends and family tell everyone you love them and get ready for the end. However the world is ending because we are failing to do the right things and make the right choices. That is insufferable. Because we know we could fix it and it is our own broken failure that is going to end the world. This is why incels seek abuse from each other I think. Because the idea that one’s own misery is self inflicted or a failure to rise as most others have is….well that’s just an awful feeling.
While i think you were way too kind to a group of hardcore misogynists, it was a great video! What a brave soul you are for looking through these forums lol
loved Olly’s reading at the beginning quite funny hearing his voice for that. Wonder how he kept from breaking up. Great vid as always! thanks!
"Calm down lesbian stans I'm still attracted to women."  I feel simultaneously called out and relieved.
I adore the bits that are narrated like Sir David Attenborough. That made me laugh
Thanks a lot hontrapoints, very good insight. I'm still gonna wait for my state-mandated tranny girlfriend though, any day now Trump is gonna make my dream come true. I firmly believe.
Contra your video has already been posted to braincels. hmmm
>Jordan Peterson = sexist old man Said by the failed trannie of course.
10:30 wait a minute, this is not incel talk anymore, this is just red pill philosophy, both PUA and MGTOW believe in it.
I don't think bone structure goes into it as much as incels think it does. It's more about social intelligence. Many incels probably have high IQs (or think that they do) so they'd never imagine that their intelligence is the reason they cant get laid but its true.  Sure, some of them can work at it and get better but most are destined to be naturally awkward and weird for the rest of their lives. They can't do anything about it.  In the end, having a bad personality is just as "tragic" as having a bad face in terms of not being able to change it and having it prevent you from getting laid.... But either way.... Who cares?  I know boards like /b/ love baiting incels into feeling ashamed of their virginity or the size of their penis. I've seen it happen a lot but we need to stay strong and realize sex isn't everything. It's ok to never get laid.   You will probably never get laid. But you will probably never fly a helicopter either and that doesn't consume you does it?  TL;dr: Treat sex as if it was flying a helicopter. Sure it would be cool to do but you don't need to do it to be happy
Yes you're beautiful, but you're also fucking brilliant.
so good
As someone who's been very insecure about their looks, I appreciate the sympathy expressed in this video. When you stumble upon toxic communities and get sucked into their perception of life, you become more confident in your (false) views but just feel worse and worse, especially if you already suffer from mental illness. People have to get out of incredibly exaggerated views of the world and ground themselves in reality. That's not to say we shouldn't challenge traditional notions of physical masculinity and femininity, of course.
I never was an incel but I remember going to 4chan and other IB and it's true. You read a lot of self-loathing and self-condescending messages which you might end up either believing yourself or thinking that it might be just people joking. It's not a really good place to go if you're depressed. So just avoid it.
Femoid... I think that may be worse than objects: that's alien! They make women sound like they are those creatures from "They Live"
Girl you SLAY! Honestly I want to clap after your videos. Love ya xo
Great video, as always. Just want to say, a big thank you for always posting your videos with closed captioning. It's so helpful to have it, and so frustrating when channels with more subscribers and employees than yours can't be bothered with it. Props to you :)
Well, the good news is that this video certainly isn't starting in an awkward way.
First off, another amazingly well researched and well thought-out video, as always.  Second: Natalie, you are beautiful.  A friend of mine sent me your video on Degeneracy a few days ago, and it was the first time I had ever seen your content. I was thrown off for a second when you started speaking, because I hadn't known you were trans. That's how feminine you look; if your voice had been more feminine or you hadn't mentioned your "blocking your T and popping your E" in the video, I would never have known. And just comparing that video to this one, even your voice is sounding more feminine all the time. I honestly don't think you need any surgery on your face. Now, I know it's not for me to say, and that you gotta do what you need to feel comfortable in your body. But from where I'm standing, I don't think it's needed.
Oooooh, firstly it's lovely to see someone else who when called a degenret embraces it, there is nothing wrong with enjoying oneself. Secondly, I know somewhere in a desperate moment far beyond the touch of others I'll return to this video and Nats description of rain storms. Thirdly, amazing video as always, deeply inciteful and well reserched, the aesthetics on point as always and well, full of empathy. I think I understand why they're like they are now, it's not excusable what they can do with it but knowing why means that we can try to help and or ensure the root cause of the violence is dealt with. Sidenote, being a bi guy on things like tinder is like rarley finding a women who matches with you and starting a nice conversation with them whilst Grinder pokes you in the ear with its very loud dick. I have met a few guys who identified as Incels before they got to grips with there sexuality, and came out, that way.
omg i think you're so awesome!
You where right about the trigger warnings. I thought I could handle it. I really, really did. I really like you and your channel. But the way they hate women and all the stuff that they said about us - it cut to the core. Part of me was convinced that there are no good men left because the ones that can get laid or relationships- treat us like objects and disrespect us and the ones that can't resent us and objectify us even more. And then you mentioned the catastrophizing behavior and that is so like me and the stuff I was thinking about men. I hate how true "Men are afraid that women will laugh at them. Women are afraid that men will kill them," still is. It makes it hard to trust people because they could be going home and looking at this horrible shit on their computers, perpetuating this poison and making killers. I know incels act like women can't be "involuntary celibate"- but they can- I haven't been in a relationship in years and I feel invisible especially on dating apps. And the part about digital self-harm for me is true too. When I look at videos about fat people, I recently started looking at the comments of Youtube and I hate the comments but I keep looking for more. It was a good video- it really was. It just feels like misogyny is everywhere and it's overwhelming.
god the outfits, color, and general aesthetic of these videos stun me every time. what a fuckin queen. im drowning in respect for her. im gonna use screenshots as color portrait practice. i stan a legend.
I really respect the work you've done here! I can only ever empathize with them in an abstract sense because of how viscerally repelling their misogyny and lesbophobia is. Just being around them seems kinda dangerous and terrifying.
I sincerely hope this video helps people
Unfuckability is an academic term.
...  oof...  TW this for self harm, please.  Now all I wanna do is see what I get on 4chan.  I know that would cause a problem, though.   Also, how dare you tell the cis about our slurs.
Y'all blackpill muthafuckas need Sartre!
great video nat, it was emotional and you admitted some of your vulnerabilities. i know that is pretty much only ever a bad thing online and will probably be used against you, but you did it for your A R T.
When you said "take me mommy" I fucking lost it
I bet Shaun enjoys this video!
The whoe Incel situation thing just makes me so sad. I literally can’t believe people like this exist, that hate themselves that much, but I guess it is what it is. I wonder how this problem could be fixed, or maybe it’s just a some people will grow out of it and others won’t thing ? I’ve run into a few incels on discord and they’re just the saddest in the world. There was this guy who was a catholic traditionalist plus incel .... you can imagine how that went .... ugh .... 🙄
this is everything I wanted it to be :D
1:04 Get back in there, tear!
As someone obsessed with incels and ended up writing a paper on them, accidentally taking the blackpill with you into the real world is a very real experience.
Now you got me feeling bad for Incels. The incel boards are definitely toxic environments for anyone with low self esteem. Everyone should watch this!
well this was complete bullshit.
"The Manosphere exists because Rock n Roll is dead" Mind=blown
4chan is cancerous as hell, stopping browsing this toxic website  has been one of the greatest experience of my life.
Your accent comes out more when you think of your male-ish past. Fun.
Also, I have never seen such high levels of alienation in my life, the fact that incels exist shows how fucked up modern day American society has become. We either abolish Capitalism now, or just we start building re-education camps in affluent neighborhoods. It won't do much but you got start somewhere!
i love mickey mouse and winnie the pooh :)
Amazing. You were having a moment the whole video <3
Rock and Roll isn't dead. It just smells funny.
well made video obviously goes without saying. I find the idea of internet induced self harm very interesting, I myself have tendancies towards that kind of self harm but luckily I have art to channel those feelings into and it turns out women love a creative tragic artist.
19:03 you heard it here folks, she's promised to let you hit that!
Dating Apps reminds me of Adorno's critique of the star system, you don't get atracted to what you really want, or to real art, but to what the market want you to be atracted to, and tahts not real art, i'ts a momentary infatuation with a product, a fetish (and not of the fun ones). As always one great video Nat....
foppington should really get her own channel. would sub over and over
I think the part that hit me most was the one about internet self harm. I'm not an incel, nor am I trans, but there are times where I look at posts that fan the flames of my own depression and internalized self loathing. Subreddits like suicidewatch or depression, while very helpful to others, I need to stay away from lest I get sucked up in the dark spiral of my mind. Also being asexual, sometimes I let myself wander into subreddits like deadbedrooms unconsciously trying to hurt myself with my fear of hurting my partner by not wanting sex. As though I want to remind myself about how bad I am and that my insecurities are well founded.   All this to say, thank you for giving a name to and bringing light to this form of self harm.
Honestly, a lot of that generic incels advice is beyond useless. Stuff like "you just need to get out more" or "just be more confident" are so vague and simplistic that they'll never help anyone. The incel is not at home on Reddit every night because they keep turning down offers from their many regular friends to go to social functions, the incel is home on Reddit because they have nowhere else to be. They don't know how to "get out" more or meet new people.   And confidence is not really something many people are great at faking. It's a difficult skill to learn. Most people gain confidence from their success and abilities, not the other way around. Building confidence takes time.   If anyone ever wants to actually help these guys, try convincing them to do things that are specific and achievable without the help of other people.  And also dating apps for men are unreliable at best. Unlike most women, most men do not know how to make themselves look good in pictures. Unlike most women, most men will not check back on their Tinder every 4 hours to find dozens more women who want to fuck them. Some will, of course, but like the video points out, there's a pretty enormous gap between the two sexes for experience with online dating.
i actually had no idea the word hon had that kind of implication
Amazing Natalie.   I wish we were friends so that I could really tell you the work you do is good, needed and productive.
Thank you for this video. One of the best videos on incels on the site. And even brought up a ton of points that left me thinking and gives me a new look on the world.
24:47 Wait, so Tiffany called Adria a hon in the other video? I thought she called her a Hun!
there we go again...  hope you do monetized content some day
'Chadsplaining'
Sweet the mgtow  Is some time right. But not all the time
Did you come into contact with religious elements within these communities?   I can see the Incel worldview easily merging with religion.  Also need more Philosophy Tube bloopers and backstage shenanigans.
"Women hold up half the sky" By Mao Zedong
To play a game rigged against you is true masochism.
I'm a Seacel.
Reminder Stalin was only 5 ft 5inches, had broken gammy arm after being hit by a horse carriage age 12,  had a pock marked face from surviving measles as a kid, and was known to be a "chad" even before his (democratic, I'm ML) rise to power.
I got the most wide shit-eating grin after reading the title alone
Roosh must be ultra masculine with a beard that big woah
Thank GOD someone finally said it! The sea is so sexy.
I feel like 'hypergamy' isn't just not universal, but also goes both ways.
Thank god most normal people aren’t like this
Anybody know the piano piece playing in the background?
'When I was your age in 1975 every teenage boy had a stratocaster in his bedroom that was the outlet for his sexual frustration...The manosphere exists because rock and roll is dead.'   That line struck a chord with me for some reason (no pun intended).
I love u mommy
I just appreciate the lighting and even set design a lot in your videos to the point of being distracted even!
Now, how do we get them to watch this?
Way to go, now I have a storm fetish.
your comedic timing is perfect!! <3
Thanks Contra! Apart from that, it's so shitty you went through this. I have self-destructive behaviours myself, but I don't have whole forums about my appearance. Incels, shuttup and get out and talk to people, you'll find the world is much more sexy or aproachable.  Thank you for the video Contra and just universal love and support for anyone who needs or wants it! =8)-DX
Natalie you are such an artist and an incredible thinker. I love your videos and the perspectives and ideas you have to offer.
If you're banned from tinder and most bars in the area, what are some alternatives to meeting people.
sex is inherently ugly tho
Its so weird looking back a few years ago when I first heard about you when I was watching armored skeptic on the regular and he did a video on you. I remember thinking that your weird and felt strange watching anything sjw because all the youtubers i were watching said they were bad. But now Im a huge fan, Like watch every vid three times fan because youre content is so entertaining and  informational. I hope one day I can meet you and ask for a hug because youre a big part in my turn around from almost being a really shitty, sorta right-wing asshat to the Kinky Socialist trans woman I am now. Thank you and cant wait on the next video.
QUALITY
What I find funny is that I find many known incels as attractive and when asking my female friends about them (without telling they're incels), they say they'd fuck them because of their looks. In other words, it's their fucking mind and inadequacy to recognize when people find them attractive and then rejecting them, what makes them celibates. But how the f*ck will you have p*ssy if you say that shit about them!!
YOOO that's my boy Philosophy Tube reading that post at the beginning
I did not know Roosh was dedicating his time to making no homo(TM) bread
Jesus, that shit is dark as fuck. Get help people, it doesnt have to be that way, skulls arent that important.
best video on incels ive seen so far  i too get tired of the politically correct flattery that floats around on the internet. my tumblr dash is full of it. i dont like it because it seems insincere and fake, these compliments are given to anyone. i feel weirded out that this is a phenomenon in the first place, like do people actually feel better after reading some copypasta'd encouraging meme from an anon?
12:11 Roosh V looking like hes about to erect dozens of Steeles arcoss 17th century BCE Babylon to standardize the law of his empire that was blessed by his god, marduk.
As an asexual, it's just bizarre to me. I'm out of shape, weak jaw and thin hair; I don't flirt, I'm awkward and I don't like talking, I work a shit job, I wear my absurd passions on my sleeve, and I still get numbers. It's an awkward conversation to have a couple times a year, and I always feel bad
this has the best soundtrack of any contra video. pitch perfect
Great vid! Your makeup is so on point! /LGBT/ is awful. I remember posting and they immediately assumed I was a "transbian" because of how I type lmao. Said I'd never be a real woman. I'm CAFAB :')
Who does your dramatic readings? I refuse to believe that is what you sound like.  btw thanks for the term “masochistic epistemology,” this explains so much about my worldview.
*Contra, can you do me a favor and STOP getting hotter??*
Fucking fantastic, as always
is rooshes baking a kropotkin reference
Natalie, I'm glad that your mental health has improved recently!
Chadexplaining lool i lose it there. Great video
So incel is just the final form of a “nice guy” by the looks it.
Some days I'm absolutely astounded that this website is free.
What's the problem with just jacking off for the rest of your life?
Honestly I must admit I feel very identified to the list at 9:00 bot ONLY up to point 5. It is a very lonely and unpleasant feeling though, and I can see how people can get kinda strange about it. It is genuinely painful to feel like that. I think it comes from suffering from social anxiety, depression and perhaps other mental illnesses, but it doesn't feel good. I don't empathize with "incels" because they blame women for their woes, but I do find myself somewhat represented. It's so easy to fall into the trap  of blaming yourself for things you have no control over and it's really painful. People tell you to accept what you can't change, but no one tells you how. Do you just live with it until you've accepted it? Because it can survive as a destructive parasite in your mind for years without your ever "accenting" it, or even getting used to the feeling of inadequacy. I sometimes feel hurt when people mock incels, because the way it feels to not be able to form a romantically intimate relationship when you desperately want one is just not nice. I don't care about sex that much, even. In fact it's more about the sort of intense attention that you receive from someone who wants you and likes you.
Regarding why people seek out insulting and mean comments... I think a lot of those people do it cause they want their fears validated. Like, say you're afraid of not passing as a woman. If a bunch of people tell you that you won't pass as a woman, it tells you that you're not thinking irrationally, that you're totally right.  And some people use that as permission to give up on changing for the better. It's a fear of failure, they're afraid of trying their hardest and still not getting what they want.
Broke - Incels Woke - Volcels
Oh boy
i love her so much
Most people that like to eat make themselves food I don't understand.🤔🤔🤔
assuming the scenarios from 32:05 were inspired by reality, you can really tell how the forums have drastically changed the incel worldview. from what I read it sounds like whoever this post is about is genuinely extending her emotions out to this person, sharing interests and wanting spending time with them and feeling open enough to cry around them and seek advice or even just comfort... and whoever wrote the post just... doesn’t seem to see that. it’s honestly kinda tragic, yknow? they’ve got at least one woman in their life that seems to care about them to at least some degree but they’ve been poisoned to a point where it somehow negatively effects them.
Wow! I think that was your best video yet!
Jesus. Pretty heavy doc.
Honestly I think the crux of the incel issue is that they think female sexuality is exactly the same as male sexuality
Really good video. It's easy to just speak to one's audience and dismiss groups as "terrible". But Contra gives a great psychological analysis here. She's actually trying to understand and explain these groups. I learned a lot. Thanks.
Tip to the incels: Just become GAY A.K.A. NORMAL. Like Chad can't steal from you if you're with him, right? Fun fact: Heterosexuality is a mental illness and a curse created by Lucifer Satan.
Wow...this is some legit interesting stuff, all around I’m intrigued by these people and the way they think.
Goddamn that was beautiful. And that bit about digital self-harm really helped me understand why I seek out fights with absolutely terrible people. Thank you.
Oh, man that dating app part was so real for me. I want to take it slow. Like, let's talk about sucking dick a couple of dates in, not in your first message to me.
Please do an ASMR video! You’d get way more views, those sweet perverted views.
I bet the infective nature of self-harm and internet-born nihilist philosophies serve the same functional roots as self-sabotage. Sabotaging yourself means that you have something to blame other than yourself so that in an ass-backwards way you can still believe that, no, you're a good person, it's the x, y, or the world that's wrong and is keeping you down. It helps comfort the self but at the cost of personal growth, and since personal growth involves risk as well as reward it's not surprising so many people form so many different communities to convince themselves "okay good I don't have to do this thing that I REALLY REALLY wanna do but makes me anxious and risks failure/rejection, because these all-powerful forces will prevent me from ever succeeding and the long term misery seems easier to cope with in each passing moment than the fleeting and probabilistic yet immediate and intense experience of rejection/failure."
Great video but I don't think incels are any less imaginary than "sjw"s or "third-wave feminists".
The notion that all of us could escape hell is phony, some of us are simply too far gone and maladjusted. I'm incompatible with other humans. I can't even maintain online friends. I've increasingly started to accept the fact I'll have to dedicate my life to escapism, and it is working quite well for the time being. I need to isolate myself from other humans because trying to relate to them is unbearable. Though one of these days my self-consciousness will seep through the cracks I'm sure, and I'll kill myself.  Not all of us gets a happy ending. Most people seem to ignore the fact. Or trying justify it by making me into a shit person who deserves social alienation and exclusion.  Life will resonate like this always. The best thing would be the gamma ray burst or whatnot. No more life, no more bullshit, nothing. It is relieving that at least can turn my own perception into nothing at any moment. True freedom is non-existence.
You are like the jim sterling of social and political themes
fucking slay, queen
Thanks for pointing out the mental struggle. The amount of anxiety and depression within the incel community needs to be acknowledged since it really is the root for this behavior and mindset for most of them. I've been at that level of self-hatred and self-harm before, and it's a distorted, terrifying world filled with bitterness and loneliness. I hope some of them will seek professional help.
wait.... i though you already had facila feminization...  GIRL YOU LOOK GREAT SHUTUP
"A skull is inanimate, and unchangeable."  Joke's on you Natalie, Facial Feminization Surgery only costs 42,000 dollars!  *inconsolably sobs in trans poverty*  [I am the trans poverty god how many lyft rides will it take before I can live with a mirror in my house I love your videos thank u for making them]
holy shit...  bread scientist.... I'm dying
The aesthetics of this video are on point
Just a wee bit off topic, but has Roosh ever actually *worked* in a kitchen? As in, a professional kitchen, where one has to constantly be on their feet and tending to sharp things, dead things, fire, and demanding bosses and customers? 'Cause I know some people who work in the food industry and I'm well aware that it's far from what he'd call "women's work." Hell, a couple of guys among said forementioned group are perhaps the toughest guys I know!
Contra, if I ever made to the third fuck with you, do you think we could throw that Marie Antoinette wig into play?
I wonder if their hatred of women keeps them from masturbating; like, do they? or do they not enough? Can't be good ether way. I think about sex way more if I hold it in yo.
As a cishet woman who has been heavy set, I have experienced the radio silence. Now that I've lost weight, it's the dick firing squad. Idk, it's flattering, but also kind of threatening. I don't know what I prefer, honestly.
This video makes me really glad I never considered 4chan worth my time to visit.  It seemed dumb so I avoided it.  Maybe I dodged a bullet.  I'd like to think I'm not a misogynist for the same reason I'm socially awkward, because I'm overly logical, but logically, I can't know that that the madness of 4chan wouldn't have spoken to me in just the wrong way.
B R E A D   S C I E N T I S T
Good stuff. The fucking state of Roosh.
I suddenly want to start an incel ocean therapy group
I wanna leave /tttt/, but it's the only trans community I feel I can trust not to be a complete hugbox :(
This video also reminded me of the HBO documentary regarding the girls who murdered another girl because they believed the Slenderman would kill her families if they didn't. That documentary highlighted how mental health professionals and resources aren't still quite ready to deal with the way in which the internet and social media amplifies pathologies.  Not only no one took seriously the murder threats placed on the Intel forums as very few seem to focus on the points Natalie mentioned.   Depressed people have a tendency to look for input corroborating their negative self beliefs and the internet makes almost impossible to escape such inputs. And then we add all those feeding on the unhappiness of others, manipulating them into feeling worse because themselves are in need of validation.  It's a fucking loop.
The quality of these videos just keeps getting better.
I did the digital self harm thing by constantly seeking out videos by TERFs. I don't do that anymore. Well not as much anyway.
Okay I think it's time - what is the title of that frikin music that plays during the ocean section? My body is ready to get deep into it.
Maybe it was my raising, but even with my deficient sex life I believe that whatever hurts me is false or bullshit of some kind. But I was intimate a few times so I know I'm fuckable, and it IS myself that makes me unavailable, mostly because of poverty.
my heart broke when I saw that kid by the wall by himself. I was like that was me when I was younger. Keep yo head up everything will work out, once you learn to love yourself you'll be good. I promise.
god i was so excited to see this title in my notifications
Hit em with a 'physiognomy was debunked a while ago.' Still your bone dimensions harbor a great deal of neoteny, so there's that.
Thanks Contra for this video. I often caught myself thinking I will never find a girlfriend, because I wasn't looking the right way, or I am too skinny. But I believe the best thing one can do to battle these feelings is self-improvement. Only if you can live with yourself, others can too.
Oh the nazi rocket man was a mysogenist? Im shocked!!!
"The bones of your face are the wrong shape" These guys can't even get the skull obsession right! You're supposed to be into skulls as things you put on your shelf as a decoration, not your OWN skulls! This is why nobody will date you!
The way you described what you felt going on TTTT is weirdly similar to what I felt when I was deep into my eating disorder and discovered the anamia community. It was like an echo chamber of self hatred and hopelessness. It just made my ED worse. It taught me how to destroy myself to become beautiful and maybe, attract love and attention. Trying diets and starving myself thinking that when I reach that number on the scale that I’ll finally be beautiful and love myself. I felt some kind of sick pleasure to be in that environment, to be able to openly hate myself and see others tear themselves down. We were all hypocrites. We hated ourselves but called each other beautiful and said to others to “be safe” when ourselves we did things extremely dangerous for our health. I was able able to some what pull myself out of that hole but I sometimes got back for that thrill. As much as I like to talk shit about incels, I somewhat sympathize with them as I get being so inside of your head and stuck in such a toxic community that you can’t see the way things truly are.
i adore you ...that is all.
Femoids 🤔 lol
I'm a sperm cel.
I often think about how I repressed my bisexuality until fairly recently and what finally prompted me to "give up" my supposed heterosexuality. Growing up, I was only interested in girls and I actually hated boys. I was also fairly gender non-conforming and feminine, so the boys thought that I was a "faggot" and the girls thought that I was just a weirdo. During middle school, I received so much homophobic bullying and harassment just because people "thought" that I was gay that I rejected anything queer. I had to be straight to prove the asshole boys who bullied me wrong. I had to get a girlfriend to prove to them and even myself that I was straight.  So in high school, I obsessed with getting a girlfriend by any means necessary. I tortured myself and kind of became a creeper (in the asexual sense; I've never been interested in sex, but I've always been a hopeless romantic). The problem was, I have never been good at being the masculine, stoic, gruff kind of guy. I have always been extremely feminine in my mannerisms, interests, and personality. So girls were almost never attracted to guys like me. So in that sense, I do empathize with "incels" and the nerdy misanthropes who resent women, because I've been there.  It was only a year ago that I realized that I was bisexual after uncovering some repressed memories of crushing on boys in middle school. Part of me wonders if I only accepted my bisexuality or even if I'm just pretending to be bi because I've resigned myself to the fact that women will never be attracted to me in the same way I'm attracted to them. Like, "Well, if I can't get a girlfriend, I might as well be gay as a last resort."  But now that I've accepted my queerness, I find myself not as attracted to women as I used to be. It may have something to do with also questioning my gender and wondering if my obsession with girls growing up was rooted in secretly wanting to be one. I dunno, I have a lot of issues and I'm still exploring that aspect of myself. But it's astonishing how ingrained I was in that toxic masculine worldview, even though I've never been masculine.
OK, but where is this Becky person supposedly getting a $5 backpack? Are they confusing backpacks and tote bags?
Plz never change the specific undefinable thing about you that makes your every video so damn awesome.
I used to date a gay incel (which sounds like a misnomer.) He thought all straight men had rape tendencies but also that women were shrill and cruel. He was also half black and hated himself for it. We had to stop dating because he was seriously depressed and was suicidal. It's easy to disregard people like this as basement dwellers who hate women and play CoD too much, but knowing one personally has shown me how self destructive mindsets can completely cripple a person and keep them in a cycle of hopelessness and depression. Contra is spot on; incels and people like them should be recognized not (just) as sexists but as people who are severely self sabotaging themselves psychologically.
This is one of the best channels on YouTube.
Great, now the nature sounds app I use as white noise to help me sleep is just going to make me viciously horny; thanks Natalie...  Also you are a gorgeous goddess, don't ever forget that. God knows we won't let you <3
Hell of a video, Nat.
been said before but bigotry is self-hatred projected outwards
omg mommy, i was just thinking about this topic and you post a video on it, i love you
I was literally playing my stratocaster the whole way though this video. Girl you sure do got me pegged with all that Mendels sohn
What scares me is that I can totally identify with that catastrophizing mentality, I used to feel that a lot in my late teens. I even wound up in communities that did somewhat provide a negative reinforcement loop where I'd get stuck with other people also crying their woes about dating and such, and none of us would ever really get anything out of it... It didn't quite reach this degree of madness, but it easily could have, and describing it as something like an "addiction" to negative thoughts is pretty accurate.  It really doesn't take that many wrong steps to get to a place so terrible and inescapable that it'd more or less take a miracle to get out of again...
Davis Aurini's skull is an Incel.
I hear Fopptington's law is already being taught in most introductory anthropology courses now
I thought I was familiar with this movement, but as ever, your take was unexpected, insightful, and compassionate but uncompromising. Thank you for being so open about your own 'secrets' and open-minded towards such diverse communities. This was brilliant.   No great wit to offer beyond that, I'm afraid. Maybe next time.
I love videos like this and Tiffany Tumbles (and all the others of course); some of this stuff I would've never considered or thought about because of my limited understanding of what goes on in the LGBT community. It's not your responsibility to let cis-gendered individuals like myself know what goes on in your mind (noting that in some sense it can be dangerous to reveal that information to people that can use that against you to cause you harm), but I really appreciate it because one of your videos tells me much more than anything else, so thank you!
I'm not entirely sure "Red Pill" is solely based on how women are viewed, but more as a 'wake-up' reference that not only women experience hurt, violence, and injustice. I agree with that there are problems for both men and women... obviously I don't what the proportion is... and I think for the overall message and purpose that is not super-important. I do absolutely think that, using the MRA as example, that their communication and moderation leaves a lot to be desired.... much like it does for certain feminist groups. Likewise, I think that the worst 'actors' get way too much recognition, and are being assigned too much credit as speaking for the whole group. Just like most feminists are very reasonable people concerned about inequality, I bet that most MRA's are merely concerned about inequality from the opposite side.... where on both sides the extreme voices are the ones that are cited as evidence for the mentality for the whole group.  Please don't make a Nazi comparison.... we could do that for any group, particularly if there are some extremists in there, and the only thing is accomplishes is shutting down a conversation or discussion.
I can't believe you have started spouting in-sea agitprop! I have fought the allure of the salty goddess for years, only to see a respected orator spout her maritime filth.  Long time watcher, vehement disagreer (apart from the sea thing). Thank you sincerely for treating this subject with such wit, wisdom and quality.
Did you get Neil Gaiman to narrate that intro...
Will you be tapping the skull again on your ASMR channel? I hope so.
You are literally queer Jesus slowly flagellating themselves, bearing a cross, and crucifying yourself to cleanse the sins of us bastards. Thank you🙏 Anita bless
this video, which had nothing to do with me at all, cured my suicidality and made me horny for the ocean. i wana fuck the sea
Funny thing is, incels have more things in common with feminism that they want to believe, they are frustrated because they don't match the idea of manhood society has shaped and that's why they don't get girls, but instead of trying to change things so the idea of how to be a man changes and, by their logic, get more chances with the girls, they accept their fate as outcasts of their own gender and focus on hating anyone who is in that group, secretly envying them for reaching true manhood, they are too victims of patriarchy
MGTOW are not incels.
-standing round of applause- (...with some tears)
I’m an inlay. It’s destroying me.
Having a Chad skull isn't all it's cracked up to be. Have you ever seen Predator? I just know they're in the trees, looking at my head with that crazy infrared shit. My skull is not a trophy!
I want to know what incels think about a feeeemoid with a weird skull. E: I wrote this before watching the whole video, and it was a mistake. It didn't occur to me there would be more that addressed the feelings of transwomen about exactly that. My original comment was intended to examine the incel obsession with their skull shape and didn't take the feelings of others into account. I hope I wasn't being an asshole but if I was I apologize.
This video is poetry Natalie! <3  I have read into subject quite a bit because I have no life, I guess.  I wanted to add if there are incels out there that don't suffer from neurodivegence (mental illness) that need some perspective-- look at Ed Sheeran.  Look at his skull shape, his looks, his height, etc.  That guy could date anyone he wants.  It's because he has a passion people can gather around and he sees women as human beings.    I think if someone can't seem to unfuck themselves from this toxic perspective-- there must be some kind of leanings toward serious mental unrest.  For one thing, a lot of these people feel seething rage seeing other people happy.  I'm not sure any online forum could coax me into feeling that level of hatred for anyone regardless of my circumstance.  To those who have a fighting chance I absolutely hope you listen to this video.  It's one life to enjoy and try to unfucketh thy self.  I sincerely wish you luck.
How is Jordan Peterson a sexist old man? Everything up until that I agreed with.
i feel like you're my zany wine aunt and i love it
Natalie is totally gorgeous through and through.  I wish I was half the woman she is.
maybe unnecessary but,,,, ur makeup? is fuckin amazin in this vid? like i think u did ur brows differently its amazin
Did you really think that they managed to exist because rock and roll is dead if so elaborate on this
Obviously the one's posting photos are the one that are at least knowledge they are not utterly hideous, there's a bit of confirmation bias over here.
im nor a trans woman or an incel but i  would always look at violent content about abuse and trauma that would give me panic attacks and flash backs. i would even look at bigoted things that targeted my identity believing it was just “”research”” just like you. i thought because i recovered from physically self harming that i was done, but i never realized that digital self harming was also problem i had to deal with. now i do. either way, i was left a slobbering mess listening to emo punk songs that would offend my usual hipster lo fi hi hop synthwave ass . thank you for the help natalie. also this video was amazing, both informative and entertaining.
ahhh why is this so good.
You are an actual gift and I honestly believe the world would be a darker place without you and your brilliance.
Having had similar experiences to these incels in terms of my insecurity over appearance, tendency towards self-loathing, and extreme difficulty making friends or dating, I still don't understand what exactly pushes them towards violent misogyny. It always just seemed obvious to me that my situation was just due to unfortunate circumstances and that no one was to blame for it. To come up with a whole system that actually puts the blame on women though...  I don't sympathize with them at all. Only thing I might understand is their reaction to the generic mom advice about going out, bettering yourself, making friends, etc. which is just condescending and not at all helpful to people who obviously suffer from some debilitating social anxieties. I think more professional help is needed in those cases.
I waited all week for this.  T H A N K Y O U
Jeez. Us. You're fucking great. Just keep on doing what you're doing.
So when are you and PhilosophyTube getting married 🐱🔨
What the hell is with people that simply being a virgin somehow makes you lesser as a person and unable to find happiness? I get people like sex and being in a good relationship is great for your mental health but why does there need to be shame attached to not being in a relationship or not having sex?
I had to get my food ready before watching
Came here right after watching Philosophy Tube's "solitary confinement". Well that was a few couples of seconds.
ContraPoints advice to incels: watch Jordan Peterson videos
Wait, I thought Anita was our dark mother?
Hey Contra, I love all your videos. The only thing i incorporated from their ideology is that marriage is a scam. I raise my son alone. When we were watching and caring for our son, my ex, the mother of my child, betrayed me with at least 5 other man. At that point i realized if a child doesn't give the mother a reason, as well as a caring and loving boyfriend/father, to not betray me and stay faithful, a ring won't help at all.   I hated woman for 2 years, YouTube knew that, fed on my hatred, and influenced me with womanhating (MGTOW) channels. According to JBP and general personality psychology (Big Five Traits), i am pretty much a woman. Who cares,  i watched right-wing channels, only to realize their hipocracy.   Everyone has some points, even them. I just hope that everyone can find some love. My son get's a lot of love from me. MGTOW people tell everyone, If you see a parent that raises their child alone, to stay away from them. Relationships are complicated, they just don't have the strength to endure pain. I now know what i could've done better. She knows it too.  Left-Right, Woman-Man let's not fight, let's talk.  We want the best for our surroundings. We just somehow lost the way.   One of my goals was to get out of my bubble, that was created by social media. It worked. And it was you 😂 A genderqueer guy, that went through the process of transitioning into a woman.  I somehow miss the videos where you were more flamboyant, and changed your outfit more often :D  This video helps me to finally let go of my supressed hatred.  I love your work. It's valuable and important. Keep doing what you're doing.  Best Regards, Moi
It's the worrying, ContraPoints. Be You! Take more Acid!
"Leave my fuckhole out of this." That rates pretty high on the list of things I didn't expect to hear someone say today lol
Your face is beautiful (thanks Jim Carrey) and feminine. Don't change it!
I am a straight tall cis female, and now I am worried about my large head, even though it matches my body, thanks!
The pink and green lighting is so gorgeous. Its like a pearlesence and its killing.
Incel? More like inSMELL haha, take a shower smelly.
Coming from a woman and therefore not predatory;  you look really beautiful in this video. I think it's the lips.
Man I just realized that the digital self-harm thing is a real thing that I do whenever I browse gendercritical at 5 a.m.
Amazing video
I wouldn't have thought you were a trans woman if you hadn't mentioned it:) so pretty!
Overall I really liked this video, except for how you explained what "hon" meant. I guess now it may have a different and may be a slur, but in the south we use hon a lot. Now, it's still in a condescending way, I won't lie, but we don't use it as a slur.
i can't believe i'm getting cucked by natalie for the chad ocean
''Femoids''...? Jeezus are these dudes for real?
People will accept any excuse not to change.
Damn. You really are one of the best damn youtubers I've ever subscribed to. Keep up the great work.
This video is everything I’ve ever wanted on such a tricky subject. You’re amazing as always contra ❤️💙
You are right in general, but it is pretty undeniable that certain physical characteristics are considered more attractive ON AVERAGE by humans in a society at any given time and also even across different cultures and time periods. For example, being tall really does give men an advantage in the sexual marketplace. Also having a symmetrical face gives humans in general an advantage. And obviously if your face has been completely burned off in a fire, for instance, it WILL of course be much much harder for you to find sexual intimacy. I also think that we are hardwired to become very frustrated or even depressed when we can't find sexual intimacy for very long periods of time, especially when we're relatively young. So I'm not sure how much you can really blame these guys for feeling the way that they do. Self improvement always is possible in my opinion, but it's much more of a struggle for some than for others. And I also don't think Jordan Peterson "traditional masculinity" type stuff can simply be ignored here. Women on average do prefer so called "chads". So if you're one of these incel guys then probably the best solution for you is to just join the marines. Of course if you're physically and emotionally fragile boot camp will be absolutely terrible for you, but if you get through it you'll probably be somewhat fuckable at the end. You can scoff at that ContraPoints, but look at all the shit you went through to become fuckable as a woman.
This video is the best, you are charismatic, funny, really smart and empathetic, you don't try to antagonize their opinions but instead try to explain how they got there and how this way of thinking can be harming, all with awesome humor and great aesthetics, i'll sub for more of this content
I love your bone structure <3
This is the first video I have ever seen on this channel and what is this.  So like, I learned a lot from the subtext of the comparison with /lgbt/ that was made. In a way, incels are fighting their own inner voice to transition. To transition into more confident, self-respecting, and even physically fit individuals.
I knew that was Olly! Hey Olly!
2 day old subscriber here, this video was awesome. I've been going through a few episodes ("the west" and "jordan peterson" are both seriously amazing), will definitely be sticking around if all your new videos are this great.  Lindsay Ellis sent me here too!
I don't think I've ever laughed at a change in lighting before. Great job, Nat.
I'm so glad I'm not the only one who finds swimming in the sea extremely sexual
Measure my skull structure, mommy
I laughed, I cried and I got a little steamy under the collar; a beautiful piece of art and investigation.
Their problem is that they (incels) are hypergamous themselves and feel entitled to date only the most desirable women. But they have nothing to offer to those women.
Van der Graaf Generator's "A Plague of Lighthouse Keepers" is all about a man's erotic communion with the sea. Or something.   RIP Rock & Roll 1961-2018.
Holy shit Olly's Attenborough impression is s p o t o n
I think some people post themselves in pollitical incorrect forums because if you find at least some compliments then you know they are genuine, instead of the pity ones you can get in sites like tumblr or twitter, and also comments that say what you are already thinking, It's a way of confirming that you are not crazy, you do have those defects and it can help you to move fowad, It should be used as a tool, not a way of living
Unobtanium :DDDD you're good
YOU ARE NOT A WOMEN! YOU ARE A DERANGED MAN WHO WANTS TO MUTILATE ITS PENIS! REPENT YOU FILTHY DEGENERATE!
“At least these dicks care enough about my pussy to be an asshole about my dick.” Perhaps never a greater combination of words hath been uttered...eth
CreepypastaTube
She literally set up that final joke in the first 90 seconds of the video. God damn, ContraPoints is so good at YouTube.
You are brilliant and lovely, thank you so much for this channel. We adore your work, in our home.  Endeavor to persevere.
How can I pay attention when you keep taunting me with those corn dogs? grr
chadsplaining ;DDDDD I'm dying. im not an incel but my best friend is ALWAYS CHADSPLAINING TO ME and now I've finally found the word for it. gdm
That’s it, I’m changing my major to bread scientist
I literally came when the intro dropped
When Tiffany called Adria a "hon" in the TT video, I thought she was saying "Hun," as in the marauding invaders. #CisAssumptionsShattered
This is really too much its frustrating. It makes me want to beat them up and be their therapist at the same time. As a trans nonbinary person, I feel like it would be hard to find someone as well but the fact that these men are placing stigma on themselves and acting like its IMPOSSIBLE to meet people only because its all in their head is sooo fustrating. They really need some therapy, not a cirlce jerk of people confirming their dumb ideas. What also bothers me is how they act like women dont experience the same anxieties of not finding someone. They care more about looks than the women they complain about. Have they ever heard of the placebo effect, etc. Because they think so negatively then everything in their life will seem negative.   Anyway, this was a good video. I dont know how this incel crap can be made to dissappear(when they cant and wont get help) and its fustrating. The fact that people are even thinking about killing themselves over it is even more ughhhh.
Btw one of my fav videos of yours yet
I think facial surgery may be unnecessary.    When I first started watching your videos I didn't realize you were trans.  It took seeing your old videos with you as a man to make that realization.  BTW your video of you and your nazi smashing counterpart calling each other straight white cis men is extremely funny now.
Your claws were fierce af in this. Just saying.
Fucking hell, Shaun!  I'd share my experience but I think it deserves to be heard by the proper ears. To make a long story short, I was a red piller in many ways. I might not be the catastrophising type... not conscientiously anyway, and that is a huge factor on my anxiety, which has been crippling far too often. Incels have my pity, but blind hate is never justifiable.
Don't incels actually call it the "black pill"?
This is why I love this channel.
I mean you do feel bad for them.
I'm never going to be able to look at water without getting an erection again I'm so thirsty.
Some solid analysis and genuinely useful insights but from a what-if-people-misuse this perspective there will probably be some terf-ish backlash for acknowledging any similar experiences between the self loathing of trans women and of cis men. Also I absolutely identify with setting out this toxic shit... It's like negative-validation. I have a bad habit of checking up on blogs I've blocked for their violent bigotry against myself.   I'm probably not the person to make it but I'd also be really interested in a proper piece about how toxic masculinity/men's insecurities /self hated/ and full on eating disorders appear online and often in right-leaning communities. Honestly the milder stuff on braincels seems to me indistinguishable from stuff on /zerocarbs or pjw whole soy boy conspiracy and shit. Like I get the why it's tempting to ironically  state how insecure in their masculinity these people might be but honestly it seems like an epidemic of men's mental health to me
Thanks for reminding me of the word "petrichor"
Contrapoints. No offense, I love you but you aren't helping anyone with this video. You are picking these broken people down and saying they are bad rather than helping anyone. then after your pointless rant you make it about yourself. very narcissistic. but i still love u
Incels: All these dicks make a pussy.
28:47 Omg that happened to me too after reading /r/incels every day before it was banned
Incels are fucking hypocrites. They demand sexual availability while simultaneously condemning promiscuity. They'd go away overnight if we just legalized prostitution. If they knew they could hire a hooker without getting arrested, they wouldn't be incels anymore. We wouldn't have these misogynistic shits crying on the Internet about how they can't get laid. Just fuck a lady of the evening and be done with it, goddamn it!
Many of these men need to develop there "however" factor in order to become attractive to whatever it is their trying to attract. There is a famous line from a Notorious B.I.G song, One more chance, where he say's, " Heart throb never, Black and ugly as ever. however, i stay coogie down to the socks...... Girls pee-pee when they see me. navajos creep me in they teepee as I lay down laws like island carpet".  He's essentially saying he know he's ugly and not the what most women would call attractive but his attitude/style get him women vastly more attractive than him.   whether you're smart, funny, charismatic, or whatever there will be someone out there who will find that thing attractive. You just gotta find your own unique "however" factor.
goddammit i hate the internet i call everyone hon as a term of endearment and now i'm just gonna think of shitty transphobia whenever i say it. why tf does the internet take everything genuine and turn it into something hateful.
Hi great vid, I love your work, but I’d be careful when mentioning the “red pilling” in tandem with people like men’s rights activists, as it’s a slippery slope of misrepresentation
Hm. Can't be that overflowing bitterness getting in the way of sexual contact, could it? Or perhaps the single-minded concentration on sexual contact?  And there I was, all my single life, looking for a great conversation
Thank you for this video. I experienced the same death spiral of self loathing that you described. For me it was incel shit. Hearing that you went through the same thing transitioning, and that countless others do too, makes me feel less isolated. I’ve blocked toxic sites like you suggest. I encourage others to do the same thing. Whatever the insecurity, people should know that it’s all in their head. Cults of despair solve nothing.
Olly's voice over was pure auditory chocolate *melt* 😁
QUEEN
A thus far unstated benefit of your videos is that they inoculate  anyone like me from some horrible shit in the world that we haven't time to thoroughly examine (your video "Why the Alt-Right is Wrong" is a really good example). Also, I want to voice my appreciation for your candid style and the fact that when you're editing you choose to use the take where you're half-laughing while describing some obviously absurd thing. Really adds to my enjoyment of your work. Also, you're looking as radiant as ever, chica! <3
I'm no incel, but your video is making me reflect about some of my self-destructive tendencies. You know, even though you're talking about a very specific problem, you are interpreting it from a wider psychological view and this is very relatable. My mom, my friends and my boyfriend often say that I put myself down too much... that I'm always convincing myself that I may not be able to do things. The problem with this is that everything gets worse and not better. I may even procrastinate a lot just by thinking everything I'll do will never be good enough.  I don't know where this comes from, but I think people are afraid of getting disappointed with themselves. It must be something like "If I always put myself down, I'll be less hurt when someone criticize me". One way or another, it's just an completely messed up and illogical escape route.  I thank you deeply for this video. I may come to watch it another day.
I remember when I was an incel. luckily a few years passed, I showered, grew up a little, stopped worrying about sex, and actually could've landed myself an attractive girlfriend (But I knew I wasn't ready to date so I didn't pursue). The best advice I could give to anyone right now is to not look outward (i.e sex, money, fame, looks ect) but simply look inwards (is it your personality, how outgoing are you, how often do you go out and talk to strangers) and figure out a way to connect with people. It is possible, you just need to stay positive and stop thinking about sex 24/7!
It's not just that a skull is inanimate and unchangeable (lots of parts of the body are): it's that it's both that, and the substructure of the *face* - the *expressive organ* of the body, the extremely flexible, extremely (and even deliberately) individuated part of us most tied to feeling, performative signalling, communication of the inward and personal self, etc.  The skull signifies that underlying everything you think makes you *you*, an expressive and responsive individual in a dynamic, shifting social field, is hard, impersonal, dead, immutable natural law.  And now you know why every other reactionary uses one as their logo.
Incels- people who love to claim those in the left are crybabies living in an echo chamber, and respond by being crybabies living in an echo chamber.
Same here.  Before my transition into womanhood, I was more interested in girls than I was guys (mostly due to having been raised in a phobic household).  However, being a socially awkward, obese guy, with feminine tendencies, most women didn't find me attractive.  The ones who did find me attractive, I wasn't paying attention to them at the time.  Because I wasn't looking for my equal.  I didn't want to be with a girl who mirrored my flaws, to remind me of my inadequacies.  I wanted a girlfriend with conventional beauty, and social acceptance, so that I could feel beautiful, and socially accepted, whether I was in reality or not.  I wanted to escape, and forget how ugly I felt I was by having a gorgeous girlfriend.  Back in middle school, and high school I used to bawl over getting rejected by girls.  But that was my fault for A. wanting a relationship for all the wrong reasons, and B. trying to date the wrong girls.    A year after high school, at the age of 19, I decided that I didn't need a trophy girlfriend in order to boost myself esteem.  I had this new found love for myself.  I wanted to find my equal, and have a girlfriend who was just as much of a dork as I was, and love her like I love myself.  My life changed with this mindset.  I ended up marrying my first girlfriend, and we were together for 10 years of ups & downs, till I came out as a trans woman, and then we had a no-fault divorce.  (Side note: Nowadays, I'm attracted to the type of man who reminds me of the person I used to be when I was a guy.  Is that weird, or do other trans women do this as well?)        So I understand incels, and feel kinda sorry for them.  But I also know that they bring a lot of their emotional pain upon themselves, and they're definitely not coping the right way.
This is the best video I’ve ever seen on this topic, and I’ve seen quite a few.  The way you break down the ideological and psychological roots of incels is fascinating.  You approach your subject with a genuine desire to understand it which leads to a video that is much more insightful than the point-and-laugh approach.  You’ve convinced me to subscribe.
hope you make a video about gender crtiticism love you please say what you think of kathleen stock
Very insightful Natalie.  These are nothing but buckets of crabs, in the sense of the old metaphor.
There's no deep reason for why incels mistreat women. It's just men who've made an identity around being obsessed with rape culture.
All this talk of skulls and bones makes me thirsty for a tall glass of milk
Also this existence isn't driven by the vocabulary it's driven by reality
As a asexual I understood like a third of this video. Like the sea, is that a real thing? And the rain?
You can block the websites, but you can't get rid of all the mirrors :/  I get to see my subhuman face every time I walk into a bathroom, or by a car's side mirror. Once you have taken the black pill, there is no going back.
All I want, sexually, is to become the foam on the waves once again.
I don't feel bad for men or incels on Tinder, radio silence is INFINITELY better than the sexual harrassment women receive, which is not flattering at all. Incels have a male entitlement problem, not an attractiveness problem. Women don't react to rejection with violence because they aren't socialized into masculinity which teaches men to dominate through violence and force. Men are taught women are sex objects to be owned and not human beings with the option to say "NO!", that's why Incels hate feminism. Also, the reason that incel and trans women forums are so similar is because they are all men wanting to own women, one through "sexual Marxism" or violence and the latter through becoming women.
Goddamn you are lucid!
That intro was so smooth
Incels are a peak capitalist syndrome!
Finishing one of your videos is like opening the last present on Christmas.
Oh sweet Natalie , I thank you for the ASMResque skull tapping . I come for the tingles but stay for the social enlightenment and well formed arguments.
Incredible video, thank you so much. This is the best work I've seen on this topic, by far.
What, no bath?  Who even are you anymore?
Love it ! LOVE it !! LOVE IT !!! and Olly too =)
TIL you're in really deep shit if jordan peterson is good for you
Oh boy, this is gonna be good! :)
"At least these pricks care enough about my pussy to be an asshole about my dick"
I'm always happy whenever tiffany tumbles shows up.
F off! Seriously f off! That intro is the most uncomfortable thing I ever experienced!
More Contra! <3 <3 <3 You look lovely here btw.
V O L C E L  I F  Y O U  W O U L D N T  Fucking legend
Your voice is nice and you are pretty. Coming from a straight male.
You are getting SO good at this... every new video leaves me even more impressed than the last one. Awesome job!
3:04 why do you always do this? It's stupid as shit.
33:47 I know this is supposed to be a joke... so why did it get me so hot? Natalie, you should be writing erotica.
fuck i need to go watch cute alaskan malamute puppy videos now after that intro, fuck this goddam internet
<3
Life of an incel demonstrated through song https://youtu.be/kkcJlq_BIEA
34:37 we must stand erect as odins spear in defiance of the gay agenda
You know, I've never had a relationship so I'm technically an "Incel" but I've never had these opinions about women. Mostly I always thought it was due to my own confidence and a difference in values (my hometown was extremely conservative and I was centrist, now I'm a leftist), but self hatred is something I'm way too familiar with. To be honest I winced a bit when they started talking about chads and body image because I've dealt with similar feelings. Modern dating is so dominated by shallowness, misogyny, and just plain fakery like this I really just don't care anymore. I will respect myself and a woman must accept me in the same way otherwise it's just a waste of time.
Wow. Fantastic work!
Ske-ske-ske-ske-skeletons!?
My view is that statistically, incels don't exist. How many are there? 300? 150? On the Internet, everyone is a fake. ALL this shit comes from people living on the Internet, and not in the real world. Men who don't leave the house to go to the pub, on Friday night, will never meet a woman. OK. maybe there are 500 million of them. I don't fucking know.
Post op is a shame.
"whatever hurts is true" <- thanks for identifying the mental lock that was hiding happiness away from me. its such an easy mindset to fall into and i get the feeling it fucks a lot of us up.
Fucking brutish
Haha those fuckin losers why can't they just be alone without hating women like me
Great vid 10/10 would blue pill again
saint contra
C A N  I  S N I F F  Y O U R  P A N T I E S
I wrote a 6 page short essay on incels for a class 😂
I actually finished my cbt worksheet on catastrophizing tonight :P
I cringed so hard I hurt my feet from curling my toes so hard. Holy shit.
Great in-depth video as always, one thing not mentioned that I’ve seen is the phenomenon of incels rejecting the idea of going after what they’d consider their female counterparts in attractiveness (who would just be average looking women for the most part). Maybe it’s just pure misogynistic double standards, or their reluctance to view their “negative” physical features in a positive light ever, but if some of them genuinely want sex and love, why not lower your standards the way you expect women to instead of focusing on women you view as inherently unattainable that make you insecure?
Ah, so this is how Neon Genesis Evangelion's atracted so many depressed kids on the internet, huh?
No wonder you have a special relationship with sea, as Aphrodite herself arose from it. 😉 Form of Aphrodite, mind of Athena, perhaps bits of Dionysus in you... Translation: This is the most meaningful, funny and interesting channel I have found in a looooong time and I hope this was not cringey compliment. 😂 I do wish your transition goes well too! <3
1. I knew that Olly is going to be featured in this video! 2. I've never heard of Incels before. Thank you for making this video. 3. How knows what I'm going to discover on the internet tomorrow? 4. The net is truly vast and infinite.
XxX_swagmaster420_XxX what a legend
"Volcel if you wouldn't, bitches" made me laugh uncontrollably for a bit. Haha thanks for that. You're awesome
jesus christ i feel fucking dead. there's nothing worse than looking at this shit and realizing that a few wrong turns, a little less luck, a few years in a different place, and that would have been /me./
I have a lot of skulls and I'm not attracted to any of them
Really great comparison between /LGBT/ and incels. I've noticed what such a cesspool of negativity /LGBT/ is and never connected it to being the same sort of shit as incels.
Yes daddy Olly. I imagine everything.
Jesus H. Christ. This is some fucked up shit. I don't date, I'm not interested in having a relationship, and frankly I stopped caring about having never had sex about 10 years ago. I also am not so fucked in the head that I have to concoct a conspiracy theory of biology to explain why I don't care about getting dates. Then again, I grew up in a good home and learned ethics and values from good presents. My friends and family accept me as I am, and I've sort of always been able to make my weirdness work for me socially instead of against me (mostly). People always said me yourself and be happy about it and I guess I decided that was a good idea and ran with it.
12:10 got me crying, if I didn't know who Roosh V is I would probably think this is satire
Also, in the Imagine How A Woman Feels text in the beginning, what descriptive metaphor for, I'm flabbergasted."...as you release every ounce of ____________ into her."That seems to be a terribly lengthy space for a descriptive metaphor for "semen".Also, Olly Thorn, if that is his voice, has a very sexy voice. Just saying.
FFFFEEEEEEEEEEEEEEMMM O I D S
i just let out the loudest, ugliest surprised laugh at "the inherent eroticism of the sea"
These people are so fucked up. Gross.
The nail tapping on the skull is oRGASMIC
When are you gonna drop an ASMR vid tho
How does Roosh V. manage to look more pathetic and sad every single time i hear of him. You'd think that somebody who claims to get all the sex he wants would be brimming in endless joy.
How many bread scientists does it take to make a corn dog? And I don't mean dick, I mean corn dog.
"Hey you know those depressed, socially awkward, suicidal people on that corner of the internet? Let's try to run them off the internet and ruin their lives!"  I also think this approach is wrong. By all means, if they start to harass and dox people, sure the individuals doing so should be punished accordingly. But the mass of incel hate isn't productive.
oof my bones
I drew a comic about a bread scientist once. With the rigorous research I put in his butt, my conclusion was that bread scientists are gay.
You are my fav
At least you admit you're a degenerate, nice video nontheless
I'm going to make an observation and say that most incels probably have ADHD. I have it myself and can relate to the spiral my mind can go down if i start criticizing my behavior. There is an extreme connection between ADHD and social anxiety and self-esteem issues, and when you don't have the motivation to do anything but sit in your room with the door closed and watch youtube videos or play video games, it can be a terrible thing. Not to mention that the thoughts will occur regardless of whether you actually want to think about them or not. Incels are an outward expression of our current mental health problems and alienation within capitalism.
the goddess has spoken
You’re doing some incredibly deft and compassionate bridge-building, Natalie. You make me proud to be a human.
I actually didn't expect that I would be moved by a video about Incels. Thank you, ContraPoints.
Thanks for making me want to fuck the ocean <3
foreskin.orgy
I LOVE YOU MOM
This was a really good video and absolutely the right way of talking about and looking at incels. So many news outlets just looked at the top posts on r/inceltears and left it at that.
Taking a bunch of in-house jokes that do have some bit of truth to them literally and trying to expose its dumbness on the surface with fancy music and words  can hardly be called a "contrapoint", and coupled with the recurring pervert "jokes", it's rather annoying..  The viewpoint explanations after that were a bit on the extreme side, but it still gives an overall view of some of the twisted minds that some of the members have. The 20/80 "rule" is true when it comes to looks though, even though personality comes a long way when it comes to getting laid, so that does balance it out somewhat.  I know that belittling Jordan Peterson by calling him an old man, a sexist (why'd you think that in the first place) man is a circle jerk of certain leftists, but it's frankly ignorant and snobbish. (Not that I agree with those who literally deify him)  And I beg you, please don't do the genitalia surgery as it's basically like opening up a festering volcano of pus, a wound bound to get infected. It's a procedure that cannot produce a normal looking, clean "vagina".  I was suprised about the last third though, it was spot-on.
Just checked out the r/braincel subreddit and they posted this video there, the responses are EXACTLY what Contra said they would be like.  Not just that, they started quoting pseudoscience too, so fucking ridiculous and predictable lmao.
I do wonder if, ironically, there's a feminist subset similar to incels in the same way TTTT is. Specifically, someone I used to follow online, a radical feminist who made some much-liked posts about how difficult it was to 'see the world as it was', when every advert, mention of marriage or woman dressed up (for men, of course) was a depressing reminder of her oppression and 'slave status'. Most of the comments on the post not only agreed with it but also said that they were glad they saw the 'truth', because living in a harsh reality was better than living in happy fantasy.  It's a weird, sad sort of conspiracy-based martyrdom, where the worst case scenario is automatically considered the truth simply because it's the most horrible. And, as said in the video, it's bloody difficult to get out of.
Lmao Roosh. Oh god, Roosh! LMFAOOOOO
After watching this video, I was thinking about the forums where incels tear each other's selfies apart. I think that, in a really twisted way, they're actually comforting each other. If they were told that, actually, they look normal or even attractive, that must mean that there's a different reason for their singleness other than their appearance. Like, say, their character. And character, unlike height or skull shape, can be changed. But genuine self-reflection is difficult and scary. So, by telling each other that they are hopelessly ugly, incels are reassuring each other that they don't have to change. And that's, in a way, comforting.  Btw excellent video Natalie. Your capacity for empathy and compassion is genuinely inspiring. I'm glad that you're doing what you're doing.
So good!
Perfection
The Chad Contrapoints vs the Virgin Redpill meme when
Why is nobody talking about the mouthfeel of femoids?
I don't understand people who share their insecurities with others. I just write all my negative thoughts down on paper and collect them in a crate labeled funeral pyre.
Never heard the racialized Chad names.  That's not great
So in order for this to be a largely male problem, women (being the placeholder for heterosexual women hereafter) must get laid or enter into relationships at higher rates than men. That means many men are having relations with more than one woman at a time.  Or there are just as many lonely women as men, but they don’t date incels because they aren’t what they’re looking for, and they don’t want to share a man of sufficient status.  Unlike the incels, they don’t just want someone to love them, regardless of any other traits they might have. They have standards, and they’re perfectly fine being chaste until someone meets those standards.   Even if they aren’t “perfectly fine” and they get depressed from being unloved, maybe we just don’t hear about it, because, on average, women are lower in aggression. You’re far more likely to get a criminally aggressive lonely man than a criminally aggressive lonely woman, biologically speaking.  Maybe it’s like mismatched buttons on a shirt. You’re assigning lower buttons (mid-status women) to higher button-holes (high status men) this leaves buttons on the top with no holes (high status women) and holes on the bottom with no buttons (low status men).  I’m pretty sure there is a problem with high status women not finding any suitable men because they’d prefer to mate with someone who is higher than them, and the men at their level would rather date lower-status women because they’re intimidated by a high status lover.  It’s possible there’s some incels who simply can’t get laid because they are so mentally ill that socializing is literally impossible even though they’ve been trying wholeheartedly for years to become more sociable, fit, and wealthy. But that can’t even be one percent of the male population. The vast overwhelming majority have a good chance of attracting a Stacy of some sort if they simply change their mindset. I imagine some of them are so up their own ass that they would even refuse sex or a date if it was straight up offered to them because they hate and distrust women so much.   Some of them probably had abusive mothers. Or absent ones.
That Baltimore Divine reference was superb. I'm an inside the beltway traaan, but I get your Bodymore ways
It is tough to believe compliments, partly because there's always the thought that someone who gives you positive attention just wants something. The annoying current trend of blindly agreeing with anything ever said or done by an online personality you've decided is right and good in all things also makes praise suspect. So Ms. Natalie, I sometimes think you're a little too soft on your subjects, possibly because you fear degrading your brand with overly painstaking explanations of why they're wrong which might be taken as 'spoon-feeding' or whatever, BUT your reasoning is usually sound, your intentions are good, you're charismatic and very attractive.
You can get addicted to a certain kind of sadness Like resignation to the end, always the end
You are simply amazing Natalie.
I can vouch for the effectiveness of buying a guitar. Finding a means of constructively expressing oneself does wonders for the psyche. As does the fact that history is a dialectical process and the inherent class antagonisms of capitalism may one day be resolved in the glorious victory of socialism. The tides of history are on the side of the oppressed. Workers of the world, unite!      Materialism is a surprisingly optimistic philosophical outlook.
Shout out to all my lefty queers, let's punch incels and smash the white supremacist, capitalist cis-heteropatriarchy!
Thank you so much for this video. I have been feeling completely hopeless  but the empathy and honesty shown has given me some hope at least for tonight.
Telling someone to go outside and make friends is not helpful. These people have nowhere to go and are disregarded by their peers. They are in this position because they tried and failed. No one is born an incel. You start life hopeful, but after repeated social abandonment what option are you supposed to be taking? Where outside are you going? What friends are you making? For an incel no one wants you to be around and no one wants to be your friend and that has been your experience for your entire life and you're just supposed to keep pulling energy and motivation from and bottomless barrel of inspiration and never get depressed.
YESSS THE QUEEN HAS UPLOADED ONCE AGAIN
That rooshV clip really made me laugh lol. WOW that is precious
Thanks Natalie...now I'm attracted to the sea and rainstorms
Did you just make me think of the sea in a sexual way...?
For fucks sake Contrapoints, I have to play The Moldau for a concert coming up, and now I won't be able to play the cello melody without being ROCK HARD!
Yeah, pretty much the moment I learned about incel forums, my first thought was "these people need to get away from each other."
That first song sounds like Naima by John Coltrane but an electronic version
Contra as a cis hetrosexual male, I think that you do look very feminine and attractive. Don't waste your money on facial surgery, you definitely don't need it.   Also your vids are amazing and unique keep up the good work.
Interesting how you compared the incel community to the "hun" community of trans women. These communities remind me a LOT of the pro-anorexia communities I spent time in on the internet as a young teenager spurring on my mental illness and self-loathing. They have very similar mindsets.
I'm not an incel by any means but I still found this video really helpful. I think beyond this particular corner of internet culture, you did a really good job of explaining the rationales and flaws of the kind of resentful, self-loathing mindset which is becoming frighteningly common these days. Also, I never thought of a rainstorm as something hot.
Chapo go on Contrapoints
The way he has to insist on bakery being scientific for it to be manly is just a reminder that reality has turned into a and Eric episode.  Great video, please keep making more.   But seriously, make more!!!  Also people would love to be able to subtitle this, at least I'd try to sub some videos to spanish if you activated that youtube experimental option thing.
Really enjoying the channel.  I appreciate that you address these problems honestly instead of just shoveling more crap onto these people who I'm sure most would just like to just make fun of and run away without ever actually taking a good look at the subject.  Plus I laughed a few times.
The mannequin in the background, it keeps catching my eye. It's so... enchantingly unsettling...
WOW, this came at exactly the right time for me. A lot of these thought patterns mirror what my brain does during depressive periods. Great work, Miss Parrott.
How do you manage to be both insightful and a fkng meme factory all by yourself???
I don't know if this was the best video to watch after binging The Handmaid's Tale...
20:30 Tinder and Grindr should allow for a 1 minute video you can upload or replace, of you talking, introducing yourself, doing whatever you want. WAAAAAAAY better to gauge someone than just a couple of images and text. you should be able to film these in stereoscopic for vr viewers.
I'm gay and I love you
You filthy hydrophile.
CONTRA OVER HERE SERVIN UP THE FUCKING LOOKS
Oh god I call everyone hun...IT'S SHORT FOR HONEY YOU FUCKING MEAN BITCHES
P A R I S H I L T O N
wow thank you skull person
Girlll this video is fantastic. It's well written and beautiful and I learned. I think it will help people above all. Ily
I wanna get you pregnant.
20:31 - 20:55 THANK YOU!  It's SO refreshing to see a woman make this point.  I suppose it just took a woman who used to be a hetero male and thus could see the issue from the other side to understand.  But yeah, constantly swatting down unwanted advances is a MUCH preferable condition to being the one who is always expected to make the approach and then mostly being ignored or turned down.  Not that the former isn't shitty, but I'd choose that over the latter every fucking time
Brilliantly funny and informative as always. I was something of an incel (before the word existed) in my younger days -minus the hate-filled misogony and would probably qualify as a 'copecel' these days.  I could also be called a gymcel - a type of 'looksmaxing', which actually worked for me as I did get positive attention from women (and some guys as well) Interesting all these terms.  Basedshaman has some great videos on these topics.
after the last video i went out and bought a box of corndogs.  luckily i still have some leftover in the freezer, cuz now i want one again
Dang tttt thing  reminds me of myself
So 'incel' now almost exclusively refers to _these guys_ and not just somebody who doesn't fuck But now I'm worried that because I don't fuck, people will think I'm one of _these guys_
4:45 Reading that thing was honestly disgusting.
amazing ending <3
Instant erections. N00bs.
Wow, that took quite the turn towards the end.  I didn't expect the comparisons of incel to pre-trans self loathing.  That had to be not pleasant to talk about.  You are a legend.
Take down the boys at smalldickproblems next
Damn, at 30:42 is a bit eerie, if you just get rid of 6, 7 and 8, this could've been written by me at any point over the last 7 months.   I mean, the "in" in "incel" means involuntary, and so that technically isn't me since I know a couple girls I *could* call and invite over, but a one-night-stand isn't going to cut it. It would probably feel good for one night, but then everything would be worse than it was to begin with, and I would be obsessing over the fact that it's not that night anymore, and I am alone once again.  I *don't* think I'll be good enough for anyone who will actually want to be in it for the long-haul (although I was good enough to keep the same girl for 10 years, but now I'm just a shell of my former shell of my former shell).   I don't think that "women" did it to me, they had even less control over my decline than I did, and I sure as hell don't blame feminism (if I didn't go through the stupid macho conditioning and do time, I don't think I'd be like this, and feminism would have prevented that if it could have).   I think I actually blame circumstances that were under no one's control, as well as my own mental health, which is a self-perpetuating cycle, getting sadder and less hopeful because of this loneliness and feeling like I don't matter, like there isn't anyone on the planet who needs me or gets anything from me that they couldn't get anywhere else.   Then the generalized "humanity itself is doomed" part, I tend to think that is true for a number of reasons, not the least of which is the social and political tides sweeping the entire world, and especially in the US. As for the only option being to "lie down and rot," well I'm not sure if I think that is the ONLY option, but it's the one I've been leaning toward.   All that said, separation makes the heart grow fonder, and I can't imagine hating women and thinking they're evil because *I am not good enough.* Life itself? Of course I fucking hate life itself. Mine in particular. I don't hate women though, and it isn't the fault of women that I am in utter misery. It's not primarily my fault either, like I said, a lot of it was shit that just happened. I became all fucked up in a very short time, and I guess no one wants to be there for all that. I haven't done the best job fighting it and keeping myself healthy, and I am a net drain on anyone who gets close to me because of it. I don't think I could help it either though. My whole family is dead, all my friends are dead, my sister killed herself and my drummer overdosed and my best friend was murdered. Cancer and car accidents. Heroin and suicide. Heart attacks. Murder. None of that shit had anything to do with feminism, none of it was caused by women. We just live in a cold, indifferent world, existence is made up of primarily pain, and some of us will end up in more pain than we can withstand.
This video sort of revealed unto me how I was very close to bordering these black pill levels of Incel ideology minus all the skull nonsense some time ago.  My coping mechanism for finding myself unattractive and someone women wouldn't want to seek was based on rejections and their distaste in everything I did, I often found myself blaming myself for it without mercy and spiraling myself into the depths of all that is bad about Incels really.  However I did find solace early on from the fact I... Eventually turned into men for comfort in such cases. Not just the "manly man who will treat me well" but overall any other guy who happened to like me back, either as a friend or even beyond that. Over the past few years I have eventually regained some of my confidence and also slowly growing back that attraction to women I shunned out completely because of prior mentioned reasoning, but I no longer blame it on something like being bad looking and undesirable, but rather just the fact I wasn't thinking it from the right mindset. I wasn't seeking those who I hit it off with, I was purely after those who I found attractive from looks back at the time. I'm glad I got so much comfort from so many people during that time I was at my worst and who held me back from committing bad things to myself because of self-loathing and eventually helped me recover myself as a person. If anything it also did help me realize more about my sexuality and that it wasn't just a coping mechanism for me, and it felt natural anyways, I just hadn't given it a try before circumstances "forced" me into it. I still like men, women, and all of those who don't define themselves by the binary system. I wasn't undesirable back in the day because I looked bad, it was because of a spiralling downward loop of bad choices I made because of one rejection. I stopped caring about my looks completely because I thought it didn't matter. I tried to balance it off by acting in a way that would be more desirable, but it wasn't a match to my personality. And all of this led me to just desperation and suicidal thoughts. That me is gone now though and while I knew this even beforehand, it is this very video right here that definitively gave me some of the answers I was looking for and couldn't word out myself.  Thank you Natalie for all you do, you bring solace to people like me who have a hard time trying to explain these subjects that seem hard to grasp to myself and I've been able to show some friends your content that has shaped them into being more understanding of subjects they previously only really treated as jokes, big one being transexuality to state the obvious. I wouldn't be able to sway anywhere near as many people in a compelling way if it wasn't for your content and watching it and implementing it into my own stories and visions of the world and society. Thank you a lot for everything I've been able to follow for the past year of following your content ever since I stumbled in here when you had just released "Does the left hate free speech". You have seriously improved my quality of life with your content.
I can confirm everything about 4chan's /lgbt/ board is true. i went through an identity crisis myself and repeatedly posted just waiting for someone to say, "Nah, you'll never pass lol". In the end, transitioning turned out to not be what I wanted anyway, but sometimes I wonder if I would have gone through it if I had a real support network rather than a bunch of depressed anons.
there’s a rainstorm going on and i just heard thunder as you said “the clap of thunder”
Femoids!? The slowed down playback of that word at 3:03 broke my brain temporarily. Props to the production department there making drop my joint and douse the high with 40 ounces of strong beer.
I already figure going in to a ContraPoints video named "Incels" is going to have a of criticism of Jordan Peterson's ideas and his fans. Let's see if this plays out!
Man, the cringe at the beginning. :|
Wow. Your channel is a shining beacon of intellectual hope.
Great video as always Natalie. You really look past the surface value of certain subjects and find something far more enriching. It's easy to just crank out a video talking about how terrible, creepy, and weird certain men can be, to help fulfill many a confirmation bias. But it takes a lot more effort to actively look into how exactly certain men come to be this way. Alienating these men, who could potentially become very dangerous, only serves to worsen the problem and it's refreshing to see someone actually analyze how a negative and self-hating environment can shape certain people. I hope whoever finds theirself in that pit of despair eventually finds their way out; with a new lease on life at that.
how blessed is it that thunder cracked and rain fell as soon as the ending description came on for me?
It's you Olly 😏
I was told I don't pass well as a woman either.  Funny thing is I'm cis. HMMM
"There is a website called 4chan dot org. That has a board called /LGBT/."  Oh god no I had suppressed the memory...
Jesus this is so disturbing
ContraPoints, will you make an appearance at ShrekFest 2018?
Jokes aside, I really think this video should be taught in classrooms. The educational value is great and it's extremely important to be aware of the dangers of certain forums, online communities and how it can affect one's mental health. Your videos are great overall because they can and did help so many people. You are entertaining, a voice of reason and balm for the soul. And fabulous! :D
I don't usually comment on youtube, but this video made my Chad tumescent   (i.e. you're amazing)
i want to just hang out in a Sephora with Natalie for an hour
You're going to change your face? But I like it... :(
I love you and your videos. Kisses from Argentina
I'm picturing Attila the Hun as trans woman leading her army of excessively supportive trans women into northern China.
Girl are you on HRT because dang you are looking so fucking feminine and pretty. Sorry if that’s insensitive, it’s just hard to believe you ever transitioned you pass so beautifully.
As usual, a complicated and important issue handled with humor, nuance, compassion, and scope. How does she do it??
I had a vague memory about reading something about the incels in an article. I thought it was some kind pf parody or joke. I really cannot wrap my head around a movement like thar exist.
26:05 "It always comes back to the skulls."  *Suddenly remembers Davis Aurini's hilarious obsession with a plastic skull*
As a female I will tell you that all they are saying is not true.
I used to be on a discord server full of ironic alt-right memers who all hated me. They got to know me in the beginning of my self-discovery when I turned from a kid into a person with problems and flaws, and also they just didn't like my leftism. I stopped really posting on this server after a short while, but for a good year I would regularly search my own name and all my aliases on this server to read any disparaging comments made about me. Every few weeks there'd be a new comment about "what happened to that f*ggot?" and I'd always make sure I read it whilst rereading all the old ones. I' have since left the server and (mostly) stopped this behaviour, but I think back to it and it's just... addictive. There's an addictive lure to reading the awful stuff people think and say about you, especially when you already don't feel great about yourself, that just can't be explained. The comparison to self harm is incredibly pertinent because it really is just like that, at least for me, the lure feels exactly the same and I can feel it's addictive pull. Although I've been lucky enough to avoid falling into the trap of self harm, I know from my urges to it just how similar it feels to the desire to read about how awful you are. It's honestly scary.  Sorry this is a bit of a ramble, but this video really made me reflect on these past experiences and what I used to do and still want to do sometimes scares me when I truly stop to think about it.
This is too close to home. I share that shade of sympathy towards incels because I've also been struggling with crippling insecurity and self-loathing for exactly half my life. I would never go down that same rabbit hole (on ideological grounds, if for no other reason), but even to this day meeting women is often a quixotic task for me.  Edit: This should go without saying, but there's nothing about that violent misogynystic bullshit associated that merits any consideration from me.  Also, rock n' roll is certainly not dead to me. That may be what has saved me from becoming an incel.
What the fuck! I love you so much.
You don’t have to sympathize with them, my Queen, but I will. I know what it was like to feel the way they did through my teen years, and I didn’t even lose my virginity till I was 19, only a couple months before 20 (both my hetero and my homo virginity I lost within 2 months). I can imagine how going on for another 3, 4, 5, 10, et al, years beyond what I did, never having experienced sex, intimacy, romance, and love, that the isolation and loneliness would become unbearably dark. Knowing what it was like to feel even a bit of that pain, and even just the fact that I love humans, makes it hard for me not to feel bad for these unbelievably delusional, hopeless, lonely people..  That said, at no point in my pain did I, or could I have imagined, becoming such a toxic bigot. That’s the part of this that makes me have contempt for incels, while simultaneously feeling bad for them. The bigotry doesn’t blow my mind, that’s just run of the mill misogynistic delusion, and plenty of guys with such sexist views get laid all the time. What does blow my mind, big time, is all the jargon and how pseudoscientific their beliefs are. You have access to a computer, you’re literally on it, please for the love of god, go read about the psychology and biology that you’re incorporating into your views, and realize how insane this deterministic shit is.   Anyway, these are extremely depressed people, as in clinically ill, and I’m sure many of them have multiple mental health problems. That’s, in part, why Nat hits the nail on the head with saying they MUST get away from the environments (irl and online) that are reinforcing their delusions. They really aren’t going to have much of a chance of getting better, unless they get away from those spaces, and get help (preferably clinical, but whatever it takes). Anyway, I digress.. I love you, Queen!     PS: if you’re an actual incel, and you want help, you can message me. I don’t hate you, I hate your bigotry, so if you’re willing to step away from the toxicity, I will give you ever bit of advice I can, point you towards any resources I know (I know more than you might think), and if you live in the Pittsburgh area, I might even be willing to talk to/meet you irl, and be a support to you, if and only if you’re serious about getting better, like completely and utterly better. I mean it.✌🏼
This was a very kind take on the whole issue. It's hard to sympathize with people who are so deeply screwed. I do relate though. Most women aren't interested in me sexually. I'm lucky to be pansexual, seeing as non-binrary people often find me attractive with my genuine androgyny. Lol
Olly did such an amazing job in this. It was so convincing that I had to remind myself a few times that it's him! Great job! Also, thanks mommy for doing this. Extremely helpful and very eye-opening ❤❤❤
I didn't know a sentence could be entirely made up of sexual organs and make so much sense: "these pricks care enough about my pussy to be assholes about my dick" 😂
14:00 Luckily I stopped right at step 5, where I made my home. Sweet, depressing home.
I've been blown away by your channel since I found it a few months ago. Simply amazing, entertaining, thought provoking and hilarious. Thanks for yet another great video. 😀
Good lord, that Roosh V bread scientist thing had me cackling. As if cooking isn't a vital skill of adult life that leads to healthier, tastier meals and happiness. Hehe, "bread scientist"  Quote the glorious Bill Murray: "Women belong in the kitchen. Men belong in the kitchen. Everybody belongs in the kitchen…the kitchen has food."
I'll sell my soul to you, you sultry siren, for your entire costume and makeup closet
The beeps in the intro are EXCRUCIATINGLY loud geeze
Wow, Nat, idk if you'll get to read this but I just want to put it out there that, surprisingly, I related a lot to this, at least about half of it. I'm not a fucking incel, but I'm a trans guy who's been strugling with chest dysphoria, as per usual, and that thing about self hatred, feeling sorry for yourself and self loathing. For weeks I've been going on and on about how aweful I feel, and how top surgery feels like a long dream that'll never happen, instead of putting in the work to actually get to it. I mean, I still have a lot of reflecting to do on the matter, but this thought just hadn't ocurred to me and your video actually helped! You're amazing. Aside from the topics and your smart analysis of them, I love how honest you've let yourself be about your dysphoria.  Also, I'm going to the beach tomorrow and I'm ready for the eroticism of it all.
As I'm writing this, the self-reflection is causing me to realize and rethink a bunch of stuff, and thus come back and rewrite big chunks, so sorry if this comes out all disjointed, it was not written remotely linearly.  When I was 18, I learned the term "involuntarily celibate" and adopted it to describe myself. I'm remembering some things that I am legit ashamed of now, but at the very least, I can say I never fell in with one of these communities to reinforce my feelings of inadequacy. As such...I eventually got over it. Unrequited feelings suck, for sure, but at some point, rejection changed from a stab into a bump that might not even bruise. At first, I thought maybe I just aged out of it, turning 30, the raging hormones calming down, and having had enough experience to form reasonable expectations for relationships.  But now (like, right now), I'm realizing there were a few other things going on at the same time. First, that I started taking antidepressants, which was a huge kick-in-the-dick to my...well, to my dick, for one, so not only do a lot of things bother me less on the whole due to the meds, but sex in particular has a much smaller influence in my life. Second—what I would like to attribute a lot of it to, but I really can't say for sure—is starting to read and watch a lot of feminist stuff online. Like, I've always thought of myself as a feminist, but it had always been in this big, impersonal kind of way—it was how things should be done within organizations and society as a whole, not really how I specifically should think or feel. But I started learning this stuff, started recognizing my own shittiness, and the idea that someone's attraction to me is entirely separate from what they thought of me as a person made so much more sense, and let that stuff roll off my back a lot easier.  I'm, uh, not really sure anymore if I was making a point with this. I guess that there's some things I also begrudgingly sympathize with them on? Because there but for the grace of god go I. And maybe also that they aren't all beyond redemption.
Ooh, is it hot in here or is it just me?
Lot to unpack in that video. and lots i feel I need to admit ahead.  1) I literally clapped at 'Fin' and said out loud "Bravo! Bravisimo! Bravo!" because damn you're fucking killing it, Nat. And i'm a nerd, obvs.  2) This video reminds me much about how I have used the internet and integrated into its communities over the last 12 years. I could've ended up like any incel or channer that you describe or show here. And I still have thoughts or feelings that place me in an extremely arrogant and superior person, over women, over other LGBTQ+ people, over any those society has deemed lesser to me, the white cis guy I was taught to be. I've even realised I've gone through catastrophising in my own way. For most of my life from puberty onward, I have felt unfuckable, unlovable. I'm a 26yr old virgin (in my mind anyway) and society has made out sex to be my ultimate goal and the fact I haven't, in my own way, fulfilled that has meant I am failing at life. Whether it comes from seeing couples, hearing friends get married, see my friends dating people I wanted to, seeing my parents ageing as they seem to want grandkids, in every corner of my life, I feel I am expected to be fucking no matter whether I want to or not, whether it's for my own good or not. The only reason I got out of this rut (partially, because i'm sometimes still dragged into I guess being a spinster? fucking anxiety an depression for ya) was from friends I made, hobbies I started, careers I focused on. Doing more of what I love meant I felt fulfilled. Even small things like organising my room, meeting up with a friend, keeping a schedule going to the gym, it felt easier. Like Natalie says, playing a guitar focuses this urge in us, well any passion can do that. Doesn't mean you won't want to fuck, heck I masturbate a lot still, or that you're not 'good enough' to fuck, it just means sex doesn't have to be the be all end all of life. Plenty of people I know aren't married or in a relationship in their 50s, 60 or 70s, they've never been married, they've never had kids, life isn't some stereotype film which dictates our ending, and failure to do so is anyone's fault. We all need to feel fulfilled, but it's something we choose to pursue, and if we choose to harm others based on this, then we're doing a terrible fucking job.  3) Natalie is a goddess, and I hope you get the guy or girl you deserve that loves you and fucks you right.  4) There's something quite linked between incel and violent porn. I've seen a lot of manosphere type porn games especially over the years, from all the way back in newgrounds early days to some of the patreons now. It's disturbing. There's a lot of manipulation, coercion, out right rape that comes off as something the women love to do, and it's where I learnt about the term Chad first, the Chad being the antagonist, whilst typically the nerdy type character is the protagonist who steals the girl away because they're smarter or learn to be stronger, beat the Chad up and eventually fuck the girl who is in awe of him. It's classic wish fulfilment and fantasy, but it reminds me how it shapes a person's worldview on things. There are so many of these games with these tropes, where they can manipulate or coerce women into being malleable sex slaves that any difference to this creates and anger of source, and incels seem to aim that squarely at the women they often portray in the media they consume.  Feminism hasn't made women seem hostile, patriarchy does.   I said earlier that I felt I needed to admit all this. Partly because Incels might read it and guys, like Natalie says, you're probably normal looking guys, and those forums and people that tell you otherwise are preying on that for their own self worth because they themselves feel shitty about their lives. But also because the internet, whilst platforming some awful shit and people, also needs a place where we can express weakness and not feel ashamed about it or be buried under it.  Please, follow the link in the video description if you've read this far and maybe want to try something hopeful for a change that you've not tried before.. This does not have to be your life, ended by a cult, it can be better.
The ultra-masculine baker: how many facial pubes does that man end up with in his baked goods?
Yay Hebrides overture!!!
Uhm, on the topic of "nerd misogyny" specifically, there was a video I watched a while ago called "The Adorkable Misogyny of the Big Bang Theory" which basically explained the types of men who fall for the incel mindset, using characters and circumstances from the show as examples. I remember it being good, but... I also watched it a really long time ago before I really understood politics in any meaningful capacity whatsoever, so maybe don't quote me on that if it turns out to be incredibly problematic.
...Yikes.
While you were tapping that skull, i  literally felt taps on my head... am I prone to hypnotism now?
The "H O N T R A P O I N T S" comment on the /tttt thread about this video made me laugh.  love yer videos, bitch.
I'm a short obese dude with a funny-looking mustache and glasses, with a below-average paying job - and I've still been in relationships and have had sex. All this talk about how being too short or too poor or too fat or too ugly just DOOMS you to lifelong virginity is nonsense.  I'm not saying it may not lower your chances, but the idea that you just can't ever get laid no matter what is just self-defeating pessimism. And I mean, from experience, having sex wasn't this magical event that changed who I was or how I felt about myself. Yeah, it felt good, but I didn't feel like a "more complete person" afterward or anything.   Virginity is nothing to be ashamed of, and while I understand the desire to experience sex, it isn't something that should be held up as the end-all-be-all of human experience. Live your life and try to enjoy yourself, whether you're sexually active or not. Hinging so much importance on sex isn't healthy.
god, I normally watch your videos because I appreciate your tone, aesthetic and mostly I just like listening to you talk, not to have my own cancerous behavior patterns revealed to me. This wasn't what I was expecting to happen but thank you.
Lesbian stans  You got me.
Mommy why did you make Daddy say those mean things? 😭
dont ask me how i know this but becky and stacy are originally from transformation porn.
This is such a great video. Thorough, yet comprehensive. Easy to sympathise and understand, yet easy to remain safely outside of that way of thinking. Keep up the awesome work. Looking forward to your next video
OMG Your makeup looks so good <3
I would return to the sweet, salty embrace of Mendelssohn any day :).
You mentioned getting facial surgery, and though I think you're beautiful as you are, I really hope everything goes okay with the process and nobody gives you shit for it.
I'm a beautiful trans woman and I've got the biggest head/skull imaginable. My gf has barely transitioned and she's beautiful. All trans women are beautiful and it's true because I believe it
so Natalie, what you're saying is, we need to fuck the ocean. I am gonna go put my dick in the sea right now thank you
This is the best take I’ve heard
This video was a masterpiece. Wow. Amazing
Idiot here. What specifically is the problematic thing referred to at 18:45?
The incel attitude to attractiveness reminds me of the Christopher Hitchens 'women aren't funny' view that if men aren't handsome they're forced to be funny to attract women. Regardless of the obvious misogyny of it, I think the reason that this view struck such a chord with so many men was that it allowed the blame for their inability to get women to like them to be shifted somewhat. It perpetrated this idea that men have to pander to women with good looks or comedy in order to have sex with them, and that men (like our lord and rationalist saviour Chris Hitchens) who realise this are rising above it. It's easier to address your lack of success with women by blaming feminism or society or instincts, especially if this comes packaged with a good excuse to leave rape threats in the comments of every Amy Schumer and Sarah Silverman clip on youtube.
*C O C K  C A R O U S E L*
Thanks Natalie! I'm gonna fuck the ocean now!
I LOVE YOU
I always got a firing squad of dicks, irregardless of transition status
I didn't realize Roosh V converted to salafism.
Contra I will never get used to your community 😂
Hey, awesome video like all of your content (I feel this channel is a true gem of youtube) Sry i'm not a native speaker (i live in Germany). I would like to make a few remarks, because this topic kind of concerns me. I agree with a lot of your analysis. The language thing for incels is a tool for dehumanisation. The dating market is a market, no matter if you are online or irl even though it certainly does not reach the ridiculous and insane biological heights but it is a thing, which often gets neglected in (to borrow a term from one of your earlier videos) "Pop Feminism", which ties into the emergence of this new old misagony of the manosphere. Too often in liberal feminism womanhood is in the media reaffirmed as (just as) victimhood, which i think hurts the goals of gender equality. It basicly is the confirmation of the patriarchal sentiment, that women need to be protected (more then men) or are always innocent beings (in contrast to men). That women can't be offenders, women can't be sexist, women can't be wrong. While this worldview can reproduce itself on the theoretical level without contradiction, it cannot do that in practice. In dating (since second wave feminism became mainstream and watered down) there is actually a lot of hypocrisy in gender relations coming from the female side, while there is literally no protection or solidarity for men, who fall victim to that hypocrisy. So resentment festers into hatred and bounces back into a worse objectification of women in nerd circles. I think this needs to be taken into account. Don't get me wrong a lot of the manosphere is utterly ridiculous and disgusting, but a man who is more feminine (which for me is not meant as bound to a certain gender, in the way of say a very quiet, introvert, passive behaviour) has far worse cards in finding a partner than a women with the same character. Moreover a passive woman does then have the opportunity to grow her character from the basis and support of a loving relationship because it still is seen as something natural. Of cours this does not happen in all relationships. Imagine it differently how many woman with a masculine character take that active role of a caregiver outside of motherhood? It is still more common for women to want that than it is for men to want that. There are men, who simply cannot set out to do the things People like Jordan B. Peterson want them to do. I'm writing that as someone who has seriously bad experience with dating which contributed to my selfloathing i'm still not really healed by even though i have made progress i think. But that progress only came with coping mechanisms (I became really invested into erotic art) until i finally found the courage to get rid off my virginity (though only bought, but it was such a relief).  One should not underestimate the impact of being dismissed by the desired gender. Queer people are more advanced with this problem then heterosexual people, i think: You can be masculine or feminine depending on your character not your assigned gender role.  Thanks for reading, keep up the great content. You actually made me realize that i am a bit genderdysphoric myself. Though i do not feel the urge to physically perform genderbending, i more often identify with women in media or role playing games (always female charactes if there is an option) and i absolutely hate hypermasculine competitiveness. My brain is female and i'm locked in a desire for a woman with more masculine character traits, which i can only fulfill in my fantasy. No cleaning my room will change that sadly and there some of the points incels perversly hint at, actually become visible for me in everyday life and you can't really talk to a lot of feminists about these issues because they created a safe zone for themselves and their beliefs centered around the guilt of men. In my troubles i got for example much more compassion from the men in my life than from the women.
God damn you're good at this.
You may have prevented me from becoming a future incel. Thank you so much! Please keep doing what you’re doing  Also Olly Thorn is a talented voice actor
great, now the ocean is ruined for me
You're so fucking funny I love you
I think i might be using the internet as a form of self harm... I used to cut but i stopped, but maybe i just exchanged one form of self harm for another...
I have committed myself to understanding what a woman feels like when she is penetrated.   I want to fullfill this commitment but the matchstick won't fit in my penis. It's too square...  My penis...  ...is too square.
I saw Chad among the patrons. This is some kind of hoax.
I used to hate on incels but rn I can only feel sad for them :( I hope they'll gain some confidence and that they'll be able to find  a loving gf <3
I agreed with this video up until the point where she says "Peterson is actually a good influence", his not his really not, Peterson is actually is making thing worse not better. I think what people need to understand about the incel community is that it wasn't always like this. There was a time where the incel community was dare I say 'Intersectional' in which women were included in the community and it had a very low tolerance for the toxic rhetoric that we see today. Although, incels are toxic I do think their problematic behavior is in many ways an extension of mainstream attitudes about love and dating. The idea of "sexual marketplace" isn't just popular among the 'red pill' community, most people (i.e. "normies") actually believe in the "sexual marketplace" hypothesis and that's kind of the problem. I believe that we would be healthier as a society if we dismantled or at least challenged the idea of a "sexual marketplace" and maybe embrace the idea that love and attraction are not conditional.
Oh jeez I grew up in Baltimore and hon is a term of endearment so now I'm conflicted w/ the discourse oh the discourse oh dear
Another on point video. Love you, girl.
Contra I may or may not be one of the people that one of the /tttt/ posters was discussing lmao. Back when I still went there and they allowed passing threads there. Dark time in my life
Nice asmr tapping
Toxic masculinity sure is a prison, huh?
The biggest irony about incels is that, if they possessed any self-awareness, they'd change their moniker to volcels. Incels have no interest in bettering themselves emotionally, physically or in any other capacity, and they lash out whenever people offer well-intentioned tips on how to improve physically. Furthermore, they view women (the people they're sad won't fuck them) with nothing but the utmost contempt and hatred.
20:01 Natalie has achieved "full woman". All pre-date & conversation/banter is just for us to look for red flags, if you're going to murder us or not. Honest to God, it really is that simple.
But Natalie, what lipstick are you wearing?!
"Is that even allowed?" I'll make it legal.
This whole shit is so deeply existentially depressing
Incels = the logical end point of toxic masculinity . . . Fight Club made real
T R A C Y
I've been to some of those places in that Incel 10-stage spiral of hopelessness you showed. I'm fortunate enough to never have gotten to the "women are at fault bits" in my more depressive episodes. I think it's because those real depressive episodes actually started when I already knew better than to blame someone else for my own failings.  Don't worry about your ability to pass though Nat. I though you were gorgeous when I was straight and you identified as a crossdressing guy so really you've only gotten even more beautiful as far as I'm concerned! If I've made sexual comments that have made you feel uncomfortable, I'm sorry - I was just trying to be funny. I have some problems with social interaction I haven't fixed yet and making someone feel uncomfortable is the last thing I want.
I honestly can't take it any more. Contrapoints sits on her high horse and acts like she knows things about the world when she's just a degenerate like everyone else. Stop eroticising thunderstorms when we all know that our dark mother the sea is the most erotic natural feature.
Amazing viewpoint beautifully expressed, Natalie. Your compassion is awe-inspiring. I'm glad you're taking good care of yourself these days.
"I hope you enjoy your new life as an ultra-masculine baker -- sorry, I mean *bread scientist*"  Oh my fuck did I lose it at that line
One of my favorite vids that you’ve done, great job!
Such a great video. Almost makes late stage internet worth existing.
After all the fucking TERRIBLY researched hot takes on inceldom done by journalists following the Toronto incident, this is amazing <3 I knew if anyone could get all of this shit and give it a fair talking out it was Natalie! "volcel if you wouldn't" almost made me fall off my chair.
Great video as per usual!   But the real question here is how the hell do these guys come up with this shit?
Yo I’m changing my name to Chadpreet
You’re a fucking idiot if you don’t think alimony isn’t sexist.
Wowz I think I might have a sea kink now
i agree w the incels that our society has a harmful obsession with appearance and that lookism is a real thing. what they get wrong is that they think this affects men only and they seem completely apathetic to the struggles and pain women have to face bc of it
I've been watching a lot of incel related youtube videos and I have to say that this was a very good discussion of the topic.
Ewww, I had the weirdest feeling that you'd posted a video. It's almost like it had been four weeks or something. #spooky
Contra fans can we PLEASE just get a contraASMR channel already. It doesn’t even need to be asmr, just some 20 min clip show of contra and thunderstorm in the rainforest sounds with contra chilling in the background. I need it for reasons.
I'm not a 'boy' Contra. Quit being a TURF and calling me by an unfavorable pronoun. Ok bud?
when i watch your videos i always wonder why more people don't embrace mood lighting. great video and great voice acting.
Volcel if you wouldn't?
But can you Lie Down And Rot _without_ taking the Black Pill? Asking for a friend.
I feel weird saying spoiler warning but spoilers (?) for anyone who hasn’t finished the video. Natalie, think it’s absolutely incredible that you were able to tie this all back to digital self-harm and then present a starting point on the road to recovery. How long did it take to reach this conclusion? Never ceases to amaze how vulnerable you are willing to be for the benefit of your fellow persons. Amazing work. Thank you.
What? Fucking “hon” is some kind of slur?!? What the fuck? You can’t spring this sort of shit on people. I call people “hon” all the time. I’m currently getting paranoid that I called Natalie “hon” at a meet and greet.
tremendous
I can’t se that ocean without thinking of the golden one
I think what I love about your channel is your willingness to delve deeper into issues than 99% of youtubers, even professional journalism channels, would care to go. While most would be happy to just give explicit details about what incels are doing or saying and then laughing at and mocking them while encouraging others to do the same, you actually make a genuine effort to understand every facet of issues like incels or race relations in america or pseudo-scientific basis of racism. You know the importance of doing the proper research and reflection on topics before putting them to video. You gave me a genuinely new perspective on the psychology of the incel culture, which, considering how much exposure they've gotten recently, is pretty fantastic. This channel genuinely deserves more subscribers than it has at the moment.
i like how this channel went from smart youtube show, to fucking genius documentaries with amazing editing and pace.
What is the harpsichord piece at 5:40 ???
Please don't get plastic surgery. You're so pretty!
What's the song that plays at 22:40? I know it's probably a Zoë Blade song, but i can't seem to find which one it specifically is.
Celibacy is by definition voluntary, incel is an oxymoron
It's just people with too much time on their hands. They should find a hobby, get a job or rent a hooker.
Natalie your willingness to share deeply personal things while also retaining empathy for people with deplorable world views is inspiring and commendable. I always learn something from you. You are an absolute amazing woman, who’s high femme aesthetic I also envy greatly
Great vid thanks for opening up and being vulnerable with us you're lovely !
These guys need to understand that most people are probably not going to notice small wrists or a weak jaw/chin. They really don't see that they're not helping by holding men to such high standards of masculinity lmao. It's not black and white (chad and incel), there are so many women who don't go for the super masc fuckboy gym type. I mean, I prefer skinny emo looking guys with soft, feminine features and lots of tattoos above any other type of man.
You are a treasure and we don’t deserve you. I laughed, I cried, I sympathized, I was horrified... well-done 🥂
Not sure why you had to start the video with more Tankie baiting, but great nonetheless.
Aww, my money was on spit roasting for the etymology of roastie. Please don't look that up, I kind of wish I didn't know.
I propose an amendment to Foppington's Law: All Bigotry becomes the same eventually
how many times did you have to record the mickey mouse / winnie the pooh line? because it cuts so fast that it honestly looks like you cracked up laughing immediately afterwards.
Seriously good episode, I'm getting the "this is a new universe!!!!" feeling all over!   As  Hegel  put  it  " t  h e  s p i r i t  i s  a  b o n e."  Nazis, Nazis everywhere :S
oh, the incels. Im a 4'9 trans boy and I still have a gf. its not your height, you FOOLS, its that youre creating a self fulfilling prophecy of failure. and that you view women as objects. excellent video, you beautiful siren woman.
Great analysis and connections. It's always the bones!
Former incel here, although I (thankfully) didn't even know the term at the time that I was one. Still sure do wish I could forget my entire puberty though.  I've never agreed with much of their worldview and have never felt entitled to female attraction, so I guess I was kind of a free agent incel.  I grew up mouth breathing due to under-treated allergies, which allowed gravity to ruin the growth of my jaw, cheekbones and infraorbital rims (the small area between the cheekbones and lower eyelids) since my mouth (i.e. skull) was just hanging open 24/7 for my entire childhood and adolescence. All of my facial growth was warped by gravity to some extent, but those are the parts of my face that were basically destroyed.   Having a gravity melted face has induced a sort of body dysphoria in me that may be comparable to being pre-transition, but instead of being the "wrong" whatever I just got a straight downgrade. I think it's tough to say who has it worse, male or female childhood mouth breathers; the damage is absolutely staggering for either.  And for the record I think your nose is probably the only thing that needs substantial work. The difference between ideal male and female bone structure is surprisingly small; hair and makeup are seriously a good 70-80% of the difference. Bone reduction is kinda dicey because if you get too much taken off you're basically fucked, so make sure you really understand facial aesthetics before pulling the trigger on it.
I've lived my whole life as a woman and I still will never be as pretty or as on point as you.  You are very beautiful Contra and you're an amazing person.  I sure there was a whole community of leftist who needed someone like you to really bring the humor and thoughtfulness back into these discussions our society is having.
Incels dont exist
Natalie looks GORGEOUS
I'm not trans but I can kind of understand the whole not accepting when people say you're pretty thing. Like pretty much everyone who's commented on my physical appearance has said I'm pretty or cute or whatever but I just don't believe them. 95% of the time I look in the mirror I think I look disgusting and I'm not sure what it would take for me to believe people. To be fair I've had depression since before I hit puberty so not a whole heck of a lot I could do there.  Also,  maybe it's because I'm a lesbo but the Becky looked way more attractive than the Stacy to me.
INCELS historically become bandits, who attacked communities and raped the crap out every woman in site upon a military victory.  Why isn't anyone using these INCELS as an army to rape and pillage the land!
good video
The phrase 'flipping fuck' is such a red flag.
You're actually very beautiful! I love your makeup, and the way you talk, it's relaxing! Great video as usual, time to sit and wait for another one while *crying*
"The manosphere exists because rock & roll is dead."  Damn, that was a gut punch. =<
I get that ricecel and currycel are, shall we say, a bit problematic, but is black really a dirty word now?
How do incels think about aging women? Im not gonna research this
I fortunately don’t have a height, weight or dick insecurity,  but I’ll unmatched every woman who demands to know my measurements as her opening message in a rude way because I know how many other guys she’s prob helped push into being “Black pilled” this week.    We can all have our preferences without treating those who don’t match them like disposable trash.  My girlfriend (who’s trans) actually took time to invest in a real conversation with one person at a time, didn’t have anything like “if you’re under 6’2” don’t even try” in her bio,  and we must’ve talked about several other things before her genital status came up organically,  and basically treated each other like real human people even tho we connected through tinder first.     Horrible people are endlessly forming in reaction to other horrible people,  but to a point where they wouldn’t recognize a decent person if they crossed paths.
I want to take the bright flouresent purple pill
Woah. 28:30 just hit me right in the feels. Just right inside. Rekt it. Rekt it throughout. That was FAR TOO CLOSE to home.
Hey, small personal nitpick but I rarely see the kind of mindset you're talking about regarding Men's Rights Activism specifically, I am aware it exists in incel/MGTOW circles but as far as I've seen MRAs aren't like that. Or I've only really seen MRAs who are actually decent human beings advocating against circumcision and things like that.  Also I now have feelings regarding shore lines that I'm not entirely comfortable with.
Excellent!
Incredible, awesome video. I didn't know what incels where, but now that I know... This world is so twisted and damages so many people. Hatred towards others and ourselves only create a cruel destruction and self harm.  To anyone who reads this comment: Please, stay away from forums and content that "confirm" your worst anxieties. They're only a mirror to a distorted truth, they're toxic and way more harmful than we realise.   And I wish I could tell Natalie how amazing, humane, intelligent and gorgeous she is and that she would truly believe me. I wish her true happiness.
You should do a video on ethical veganism!!! I am extremely curious to hear your views on animal rights! Anyone else agree?
Came here because I knew u have good content, left realizing I still treat myself like shit
Open to them your hand to the shore, watch them walk into the sea. Press upon them all they need, see them yearn for all they want. Gift to them the calm pool of words, watch them draw the sword. Bless upon them the satiation of peace, see them starve for war. Grant them darkness and they will lust for light. Deliver to them death and hear them beg for life. Beget life and they will murder your kin. Be as they are and they see you different. Show them wisdom and you are a fool. The shore gives way to the sea. And the sea, my friends, does not dream of you.
I love the typography in this video.
jesus fuck these guys
perfume? hahahahahahahhahahahhahhhahahahahaha...I don't even wear underwear, these fucks espect me to use make up for them?
I feel like I'm going down the incel rabbit hole, honestly I don't know how to talk to women way too much autism
I like how you begrudgingly give Jordan Peterson props JUST because he's not as bad as the incels. It's like the faintest praise possible. Anyway great vid, this is some of your best stuff yet <3
Wow , that's a new level of insecurity I could never have imagined , thanks for informing me about this feeble cult .
You truly are a Goddess :). In the sense that you can think like Athena, the Goddess of wisdom..... But she did spring from a thought of Zeus, a male entity. So what do I know?
40sec in and I'm unsure if this is gonna be a porn
Gawd I'm glad I'm just a few years old enough to have had my most vulnerable self before this became a thing. I would have blackpilled so hard and done very very bad things. I was already doing embryonic versions of those very very bad things...
This is the only video of yours that’s ever made me cry. It took me a minute at first, but it all came to me: all the self-loathing, feelings of loneliness and rejection twisting how I viewed myself and the world, the way I made everything the worst and saw no hope or anything or anyone. Worst of all is how easy it is to step back in, to shape the world again into these horrible shapes that leave me beaten and exhausted of living; how long had it even since I enjoyed something? I thought I could never find love, and no one would want to bother with what I loved, so why should I? It’s so easy to sink into that trap, and it’s just nice to hear that someone understands without blaming like the vast majority of those on the Left. Thank you for your wonderful video, and even if each one doesn’t make me cry tears of internal anguish, I’ll still appreciate your keen intellect tempered by empathy and a genuine human compassion. Thank you.
What's interesting, the best word I can think of though such a phrasing seems off, about the narrative provided by User is how well thought out it is.  In terms of a psychological perspective, to some extent everyone is annoying and everyone has habits or behaviors which make them seem imperfect.  These are normals things given to the human condition.  Hyperfocusing on these imperfections primes individuals to find it.  Your brain through evolution is made to highlight those things in the environment you deem important.  The most likely explanation for the individuals' blood pressure shooting up when seeing a woman is they've reinforced this stress response in themselves.  IE: they've classically conditioned and operantly conditioned themselves through hyper-focusing on those attributes then when building a narrative around the physiological response they misattribute the response by blaming the person.
Is that wrong to say "dating is a marketplace" in the era of speed dating and dating sites ?  Also, they think the same way as hardcore feminists; catastrophizing is the way leading to blame the white man for everything wrong. That's the reason why you are talking about them, right ?  They got the same thinking patterns, the same way to express (cis hetero, mansplaining, etc.)
Damn... in the bubble i stay in the internet i usually don't see this kind of messed up stuff and it's so crazy to think that such things are that big an influential
swimming does feel good
Did you call Baltimore a Divine city because Divine the drag queen was from Baltimore?
To add I would say that too much masochist epistemology (self fulfilling prophecysing) will lead to self loathing and this is exacerbated by being in an echo chamber like INCEL forums. Nonetheless, hyperbolic admiration of yourself will lead to a sense of entitlement and ultimately dissatisfaction as reality ends up disagreeing with you - just because your mother thinks you’re handsome doesn’t me the girl next door does as well. I suppose  you’ve got to strike a balance between these two (add this to your growing collection of balancing acts; diet, work/life, sleep/exercise) to help enjoy your life. It’s also not to say that theses ways of thinking in moderation aren’t also useful too; self love and admiration from your friends/family can give you the confidence to do what you enjoy in life and self loathing can drive you to make changes in your life for the better.   Well that maybe a load of rubbish but your video made me think about my life in a new way (which is very exciting) and went beyond just the INCEL material which for a philosophy channel is as good as a gold star.   Here ya go 🎖
"thank you, skull-people" ¯\_༼ ಥ ‿ ಥ ༽_/¯
I'm close to becoming an incel myself considering I go through steps 1-5 every so often 😅😅😅
Im asexual, i identified as bisexual for most of my life since i was ok with sex from any gender. Im also not particularly good looking im just average i guess beta is the word those forums would use xD but even then people would STILL drop hints flat out ask for casual sex etc i never sought it out since again im asexual, but it felt nice to be wanted if even just for a bit.  But yea i guess im preaching to tye choir but if you don't objectify, and if youre at least an ok human being finding a sexual partner should be no big deal. X( though it occurs to me that since i wasn't sexually attracted maybe i just dont have the drive that drives the incels to these extrmes? Oh well just a thought great vid.
Guess your boy is going to have to walk into the sea. May my spirit float on.
Damn I need a woman
I liked the parts about bones and skeletons
Very interesting! I feel like you missed some points though.  1) There ARE women who view men as sub servant to them, whom view men as nothing more as an ATM machine. I feel like this greatly exacerbates the problem. hopecels who have an over-simplified view of the world, work hard to have at the very least, money to impress women with. I don't think they realize that by marketing yourself to a shallow demographic like "date me i'm rich" is like megabait/catnip for predatory "partners."  2) There ARE men who are predatory creeps who ruin it for the rest of us. 3) For women, they get to choose who to date since there's 100+ guys lined up to get her. Let's be honest. An average looking awkward guy is almost NEVER going to get a date on the likes of tinder. 4) Since these services, are, well, services, it's transformed human interaction into a marketplace, because if someone has a bad experience, then complains, then that service has to adapt to the customer.
Bread scientist.
This made me feel a level of empathy for incels that I previously didn't think possible. The explanations of how the forum and frame of mind work were very good at showing that incels aren't born, they are made. It's hard not to pity someone in an abusive relationship, be it romantic or just a large group of miserable people tearing each other and themselves apart.  Gonna be thinking about this one for a long time, absolutely excellent piece of work.
I was a girlfriend-less virgin until 24 if I remember correctly. It's not the best feeling in the world, but now I know I was just not ready to care about another person. I had to learn some empathy, and I've also lost some weight, gave up weed and cigarettes. Adopted a dog. Now I'm married to the woman who gave me that dog, as luck has it. Things get better.
Your brain cave is shaped just fine m'lady.
I only hope after finally getting laid these guys don't kill themselves when they realize life still keeps on sucking just as hard. Also, are you really considering facial sculpture? You already look like an elf from LotR, I personally don't see how your features could get more delicate.
Contrapoints you are a sociopolitical mirror. Great work!
You didn't actually refute any of their arguments. You basically just repeated what they were saying in a snarky mannar.
This may be your best video! Great stuff. Funny, insightful, and moving.
"Don't you wanna come with me,  don't you wanna feel my bones On your bones, it's only natural"
There is a commonality between incels, anorexia and bodybuilding, they are all forms of body dysmorphia.
:: Nervously nudges ContraPoints, whispering:: "...so when do we tell them that sex isn't a magical happiness elixir?"
I could listen to you all day.
BRAVISSIMO! :)
Any other hetero men watch this, and constantly catching themselves going, "Damn, she's kinda hot..." ?   XD
Into had me clapping
The quality of these videos just keeps getting better, I cannot believe it.
...... I have to go run outside in the rain right now
Natalie,  you're so fucking cool! I love all your videos. Y'all do such a good job on these things. I'm trying to get my sexist uncle to watch them but he's a Jordan Peterson fan so that prob won't happen anytime soon. :( anyway, your transition is so inspiring and I wish I could get it as right as you do. Can't wait for your next upload!  - Jill
I hate incels because they give despair a bad name. You can think laying down and rot is the only way without hating anyone.
33:49 onwards gave me an ASMR trigger. BRB going to be consumed by my thalassic paramour
Contra is quite possibly my favorite YouTuber!
Looking back at the kind of lonely angry teenager I was, I can bet I would've been part of the incel club if it existed back then. And if I could give some advice to these guys, I would say : 1. Your biggest problem isn't your bone structure or your "shitty personality", it's probably an emotional incompetence. 2. Cumulating emotional incompetence with the "shitty personality" of a whacky theorist who blames women for everything isn't exactly what your life needs. 3. Look inward instead of judging the rest of the world. Therapy or deep introspection might help to figure out what went wrong with your emotional development/your ability to socialize. 4. Stop putting pressure on yourself to find a partner TODAY, at any cost. Learn to be ok with who you are before searching for people who will accept you as you are. 5. Stop looking up to pick-up artists and abusive men who just intend to be good at deceiving, manipulating and objectifying women. Don't aspire to become an awful person ! 6. Use the internet to learn more about the female perspective. Women will give you a more valuable insight on your awful habits than the other lonely guys who will just enable them.  To me the last point is very important because we, idiot loners, tend to downplay how being an anxious creep is perceived by other  people compared to the impact of our appearance on our social life. Being positive, relaxed around other people and evidently comfortable in your own skin isn't a dating trick. These are just huge indicators of a healthy mindstate. I won't pretend that working on your long-lasting anxieties is easy and quick but it's clearly the only way to go.  I'm happy that you made a (fantastic) video about this, Natalie. I feel like it has been a polarizing subject where people feel the need to either vilify or enable "incels" while most of these buttheads probably just need to understand what's wrong with their daily behaviour and how disconnected they are to the outside world. Whatever if they take a look at this vid or not, this is some honest and illuminating shit right here.
This is a particularly good and thought-provoking one!
My favorite internet weirdo does it again
I think another reason so many people fall into the incel trap isn't masochism actually, it's that it's just so much easier to blame all your problems on things you have no control over. It takes away all the responsibility you have as a person to actually improve and become a person that women would enjoy being around. If you can blame women and skull structures and society itself for your problems you never have to admit that you're kind of just a boring dude who doesn't try very hard and has an unappealing personality. It's just simpler to wallow in self pity than it is to actually try to improve your life.
I'm living for this era of darker, more morally ambiguous ContraPoints. Your channel is a treasure!
30 minute video on incels and no mention of Chris-Chan? Missed opportunity lol
I love this video.
God this is just genius............
"You look great hun!" *sneer*. I feel attacked
Today I learnt that people used to fuck their guitars and that you have a major water fetish.   On a more serious note though, does anyone know why these people obsess so much about having sexual relationships? I mean, it must have been pointed out to them that there are other things in life than sex, so I'm kinda curious to know if someone knows of an answer that the incel community had to that.  Anyways, great video as always, and bravo to Olly (also as always).
Truly exceptional content, as always. I love you, ContraPoints.
Straight up, listening to Olly read erotica MUST become a thing.. like now, forever!
Your make up is on point in this video! Makes you look gorgeous!
And now I have a rainstorm fetish. Thanks a lot.
I've always had a kind of special anger/fear toward incels because I encountered one in high school, and without going into it he made my already socially anxious life extremely difficult with extreme purpose for a while. But now as a gender fluid enbie considering the fact I might be a trans guy, this video really made incels more human to me. I have a very petite bone structure and the fear I could never really look like a man is starting to gnaw at the back of my mind constantly. The small wrists rant, as sureally hilarious as it was, made me a tiny bit dysphoric, because that's where I'm at right now basically. Great work as usual! I really hope your video reaches at least a few of these guys, Natalie <3
Mommy's back!
What is it with these people and skulls?
wow, what a ride of feelings! i'm not used to this but it's always appreciated. ^^
It's certainly at least partially you Olly, your skull is delectable.
Me: Yay a new ContraPoints video! She does awesome content.  (13 minutes into the video)  *What is this LOVECRAFTIAN HORROR! Why you do this to me?!*
Haha oh wow that rocket scientist comment was savage.
So now I have to wait a month for another video? Life is too cruel.
WHY IS IT ALWAYS SKULLS
The only thing I can think of when I hear the word 'Chang' is Ken Jeong oiling up his half naked body.
"At least these pricks care enough about my pussy to be an asshole about my dick."  Marry me.
Hey, new subscription.
I suck at bread science :´(
If you became a women, can you really speak about dating and looks game since you don't think of hypergamy and other things the same, like a ciswomen would. Your biological perspective compass is always gonna be off. If you don't have an ovulation cycle your hormones and attraction is always gonna be 'wrong'
Concern-troll much? Switched from 4chan self-harm to transgender self-harm...from consuming criticism from others to dishing it out? Men who fail as men, succumb to misandry and then escape judgment and self-criticism by switching teams. Hmmm...clever.
FEEEEMOOIIIDSSS
Brilliantly executed in explaining what they all need to understand. Thank you!
Wow Furnology is making a comeback?  Things just keep getting worse!
I will never tire of the irony that they names their movement "Red Pill" in reference to The Matrix, a movie directed by two transgender women.
thank you dark mother  edit: so I made that comment before the end of the video, but having watched to the end now, I fully stand by it. and also take me away, sweet siren waves
I used to really dislike your channel because I disagree with you on several issues. Glad I came back watched a few more because this is actually really interesting, and it's giving me some insight on things people close to me must be going through. Your thoughtfulness and good humor are slowly winning me over, ContraPoints. Keep making videos.
All these men deserve a Queer Eye nomination
The dick doesn't necessarily make the man. A woman's still a woman and a man's a man. Right? Also who asks what the color of their panties are on a first date?
Haven't been on /tttt/ for a while. Thanks to you I don't want to go back. I never realized that it was digital self harm until now but you definitely lifted the veil. Based Mommy ContraPoints!
The parts where you opened up about things you were vulnerable about like your usage of Tinder and 4chan made the video a lot more relatable. It must have been difficult to talk about, but it was worth it.
HAVENT SEEN THIS VIDEO YET BUT IM SO EXCITED
What a great video! I'm living for those collabs with Olly! This is truly one of the best channels on youtube.
The second half of the video helped me understand some things about my own mental health. Thank you for everything you do, and friendly reminder that you are a gorgeous Goddess!
Your bone structure is amazing Natalie, you don't need surgery.
wow... this video is so brilliantly made! i've only just subscribed and i'm already amazed at how masterfully you create these videos. the part where you talk about browsing TTTT really hit close with me. as a trans man, I would browse something similar, a thread on an imageboard dedicated to trans men who were confidant in their feminity and taunted by terfs and the like. the constant browsing on the board effected how i saw my fellow trans men, especially my own boyfriend who is feminine. i stopped reading the threads about 2 years ago and it's been better on my mental state and has improved how i view others.   thank you for this amazing video!!!!!
I know nothing about this and had heard the word before only a few times but if anything I found myself agreeing with a lot of what you said they believe.
Yes, return to our dark mother, swim out to that brooding reef in the sea and dive down through black abysses to Cyclopean and many-columned Y’ha-nthlei, and in that lair of the Deep Ones we shall dwell amidst wonder and glory for ever.
it is fucking hilarious watching the auto captions try to figure out what to transcribe "incel" as
So does anyone else have the need to jack off into the ocean now and create some freaky fishmen hybrids?
12:19 why does Roosh need to justify baking bread as a really manly thing... stop laughing at me
So they're the male version of a radical, man-hating feminist.
Goddamn it. I can feel this video making me a better person. Fuck.
When all else fails: there’s always bread  science 🥖🔬
I respect the pain Natalie is willing to go through for us. I empathize greatly.
Wait, how old is she
as a fat bi*itch who used to torture herself with eating disorder blogs and fashion magazines, i relate to incels in a lot of ways. the only difference is i’ve always tortured myself to become More Fuckable, rather than hating men for not wanting to fuck me
5:26 you don’t understand chad and virgin memes. They’re intentionally blown out of proportion, partly to satirize incel culture, partly because the comparison is hilarious to consume and picture
Ollie did an american accent in this video and the one he uploaded today and it gives me life
Holy fuck this is beautiful. I knew about incels but I had no idea it was this in depth with so much terminology! I don't think I've laughed so hard in awhile
I can't shake the feeling that all this Incel business is just a joke taken too far. This is precisely the type of bullshit ideology I'd invent to channelise my frustration about my inability to form or hold (or want, if I'm honest) relationships. And it does fit the bill I must say. I quite like self-depreciating humour, so when first I heard the term and its description, my reaction was: hehe, that's me. Even as I learned more and more about this I saw no foul, because I just didn't think about the one possibility that would take all the fun out of harebrained theories and ridiculous jargon to go with it, which would be that: They're serious. And it's so ridiculous I still can't really believe it. Just too much on the nose. So I'm guessing that all this is fuelled by types not dissimilar to me - people with a taste for self-irony, albeit far more destructive and less empathetic, exploiting the truly frustrated (and I dare say none too intelligent) by having them ridicule themselves. Come on, Chads, Stacies, Femoids, *cells - that can't be serious, right? That just stinks of parody. I have played this kind of cruel joke on the weaker-minded myself, indulging their frustrations and stupid beliefs to make fun of them by having them explain their standpoint. I'm not proud of that, but I guess anyone with a barest amount of intellectual arrogance does so. In fact I saw total morons doing that to people even stupider then themselves. So I'm afraid I can't be nearly as sympathetic as you, as it seems to me that we're talking just about a bunch of weak-minded victims of frustration egged on by only slightly less weak-minded people with toxic personalities, and it's all gotten out of hand.
T H E  S K U L L  M E A S U R E M E N T S
Hey, Contra. I'm not going to sit here and tell you that you're the second coming of Jesus Christ, that your videos are more enlightening than the works of Russell, Kant and Kuhn combined, that your voice and makeup and bone structure are the most perfect things in the world, or that your choice of music and lighting is orgasmic. But I will say that all of us love you mate, we love what you do, you give some of us a lot of hope where previously there was none, and none of us give a damn if you're absolutely perfect or not. Keep up the good work, we all support you!
god i want to fuck the sea now, but every time i do salt gets in my dick hole
I am a woman and I have a gigantic noggin and man hands and often been referred to as an amazon. Not all women are petite and smol. Not all men are giant lumberjacks fights bears. I feel like incels are too focused on looks...their looks potential... partners looks...like what about old fashioned Love? I've been with my partner since 1999 he is the same height as me and his hands and skull are smaller. I married him because I love him he is funny and my bestfriend...not because of what he looks like or how much money he has. Now we have two son's and the both have giant skulls. 💀💀💀 I 💜u contra keep up the great work you are beautiful  inside and out.
I care less and less about all of this subject matter everyday ( general socio-political stuff) but your videos are so well made that I get sucked in every time. Good job!
Contra is probably the most woke person on youtube
"You'll never know what its like to squeeze life through your sacred passage." I'm fucking dead lmao
i admire you for opening up like that contra <3 you always put your heart and soul into all your videos and it shows!
My favorite type of incels are deadcels Haha Get it It's a good game  *Edit: Damn. I should've watched the whole video before posting this.
You might not want to make this video because it’s kinda outside your usual space, but have you ever looked in to Proana/promia/ED support communities? I recognise a huge similarity in thought pattern, especially within “meanspo” communities.
This is the only channel I have notifications on for.
That ending is Oscar-worthy
I *love* your shirt and jewellery! Of course I also love the video and your *incredibly* well-presented thoughts, but really, that goes without saying.
this video is just a psyop to get people to pronounce femoids with this incredible pronunciation you have concocted
As always an insightful and intelligent break down of a self defeating sub-culture.
All incels suffer from an overbearing inner critic that only makes them seek out more negative judgement.
BREAD SCIENCE WILL SOLVE CLIMATE CHANGE!
Stormsexual
Great video!
My skull? And here I thought my inability to get laid was because I was a fat fuck.
please consider sitting on my face, mother. <3  p.s it always comes back to the skulls
Incredible video, incredibly thoughtful and funny as always. This one goes beyond though, I feel this is the first time you've posed a world view and have helped cut through the shallow understanding and views general media provides. Thank you for doing and being the most. Much love
incel logic is very interesting. for people who have apparently had no contact with women they sure do seem to know a lot.
Your best video since "Degeneracy". I was unaware of this disturbing philosophy behind this movement, which preys on natural insecurities and leaves only victims. Love is in reach of everyone. The "INCELS" should remember two sayings by Ralph Smart "Just because it isn't happening right now doesn't mean it will never happen" and "Don't look down on me unless you're helping me up". Thanks as always for your valuable work Contra.
Thank you so much for voicing the deafening silence and pain of constant rejection, when I tell my girlfriends (girls that are friends) about this they are sympathetic yet always surprised, which is telling. Men don't communicate their feelings and pain, for fear of no one caring and appearing undesirable, which in my humble opinion leads the horror of incels and pickup artists. If men want to improve, women like you need to help, sorry ladies, I know thats a lot of work. :)
Natalie sacrificed everything for research and the pursuit of knowledge pray for her ❤️
Sell those panties for extra money to those fetishizers. Or not. I'm not the boss of you.  Men can be really fucking gross.
Incels ... EWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWwwwwww
Natalie, you are a gorgeous goddess~
It's a shame, I once dipped my toe into the red pill sphere, and it actually did help me lose my virginity and improve my confidence in dating. They have a few, very few, good ideas, but there can be some positives.   I hate what incels represent, but I get it. What do you do when you're self conscious about being a virgin? A lot of people will tell you to just be yourself. I dont get laid being myself, I do when I follow red pill advice, I just dont naturally have that personality.   Maybe feminists should focus on the sexual liberation of these kinds of people? Maybe that could convert some of these people to the left? There's got to be some solution.
You're just great, found you about a month ago when one of my friends sent our group chat your Capitalism (part 1) then subsequently watched all of your videos. Your videos are both informative and entertaining, keep up the good work.
I wish I hadn't been eating breakfast when I started watching this *gag* Another great piece! I've definitely engaged in digital self harm and your right it fucks you up in very subtle ways.
First of all, this was an amazing video, so thank you for that! It's certainly great advice to avoid these kinds of forums, but I think the lack of any positive support groups for the incel crowd is a major hurdle. Even the most progressive forums have loud voices who demean and belittle men lacking relationship experience, and rarely does anyone defend them. The rise of Incel murderers certainly hasn't helped, either. When your only choices are pick-up artists, MGTOW, and Incels, no one wins. It's one thing to preach that sexual experience doesn't determine your worth, but we need people to start practicing that tenet, and call out those who don't.
I recently found your channel through Lindsay Ellis' channel, and I've been poking around your videos, and I appreciate the content you're putting out.
I need to take a shower.
Another AMAZING video. Contrapoints you rule! A small video request: please do one on the strange phenomenon that is the Intergalactic Workers' League-Posadist and specifically how it's adopted internet meme culture. I find them both fascinating and hilarious and would LOVE to hear your take on them! Somehow I think the anatomy of the skulls of our Space Comrades and their implications on truly alien Socialistic dialects and intergalactic praxis may be of note (yes I just mashed together academic gobbledegook but it sounded smart, right?)
I will adress my local baker as "bread scientist" from now on!
It really shows what an insecure and fragile simp Roosh V is when he has to justify something as inane and neutral as baking with being "rational and therefore masculine".  I think he'd get PTSD if he ever accidentally got some makeup on himself.
I cooked up something like a black pill all on my own about racial anxiety by browsing /pol/ as a black person, and it's all there.  The metaphysical skull, the vocabulary, the digital self harm to escape well-intentioned PC lies about how "black is beautiful", and so on, all culminating in a panic attack where I was certain that each one of my classmates had the internal monologue of the nastiest 4channer, and that my every mistake was expected because I was naturally inferior, so I choked up and left. I'm better now, but it's such a uniquely awful place to be, that state of mind that flaws are intractable and unanimously seen as flaws.  Never thought of how incels do the same thing.  Nice video.
Bravo!
You really are beautiful, and intelligent.
I so appreciate the honesty and empathy you demonstrated here. You approach deeply controversial, touchy subjects with the kind of humour, grace and articulation that makes people actually want to watch and listen. You give people an understanding of viewpoints they might otherwise not have given the time of day. What you're doing is fucking IMPORTANT. Much love to you. <3
ContraPoints, no bullshit, I'd buy you a drink.
Great video, there's a lot of think pieces on incels and this is one of the few takes I've seen that's level headed but appropriately critical. This shit is so funny to me because I grew up as a small nerdy kid and turned into what some might perceive as "a Chad" because I didn't sit around hating myself. Honestly the whole incel movement unintentionally gives me confidence. Like I used to be really self conscious about my hair thinning and would be really torn up about it because I felt like I was losing apart of myself, then one day I saw how incels throw pity parties for themselves over the exact same thing because they think it means they'll never get laid and it kinda gave me a sense of "at least I'm not those guys." Now I don't even care about my hair, when it's time for me to shave it off I will and I'll own it because it's better to do that then cry about it and not accomplish anything with my life other than hating myself. Also helps that I have had many close friends who are women and as a result see them as actual people and not just fiends who won't have sex with me.
tl;dr incel selfie threads are basically /passgen/
I'm gonna start drawing skulls again.
Despite this being less humorous and more straight dialogue then some of your other stuff, I think this is one of your most insightful videos. You really cut to the heart of this thing and I enjoyed you injecting  your personal perspective into self-loathing and how it's easy to fall into those pitfalls. I think we sometimes forget that these terrible patterns can happen to anyone and that you may have to actively fight them to keep a clear head.
I think the problem with incels is they think that sex is the same as having an intimate connection or relationship with someone. Furthermore they're jealous that girls can get lots of messages on dating apps, but they don't realize that very few men on those apps are looking to date. All they care about is getting it in for one night. And most girls I've seen on tinder are trying to find relationships, not just one night stands... so i feel bad for the girls too. These guys dont care about them or their interests. The incel mentality is similar - all that matters is sex, not intimate connection or love. That's where their pain comes from.
God damn this brings up memories of wasted years on /r9k/ and wallowing in self pity
LESBIAN CONTRAPOINTS STANS UNITE
Sweetheart...please, please make the skull ASMR into a short clip for lelz. PLEASE!
Contra please do ASMR, thanks
This is the best video on incels that there is and will ever be.
This really resonated with me. I can count myself lucky that I'm too old to have been in the Incel movement. I think I would have been had it been available to me when I was younger. I certainly believed I was Incel at the time. I'm an Autistic, short, overweight man with a wonky nose, a long list of mental health issues and self inflicted scars on my face.  I'm currently married with 2 kids but I'm by no means a "chad" and I've only had sex with the one person. I lost my virginity at 23. When I did it, wasn't exactly the "movie scene" that I had expected. it was more of an "Ikea furniture with no instructions" experience.  Looking at myself before I was 23, itsclear to me now what was causing me to be incel. It was me.  I sabotaged myself. I was intensely worried about my sexual performance and I was terrified of women.   I formed intense crushes on a random woman and then silently had an imaginary relationship with her (often lasting years). I'd then reject any ""unattractive" woman for the tiniest blemish and imperfection.    The incel mindset is self fulfilling. You see yourself as being forced into celibacy, you build up a series of character flaws that make you even less attractive. Come to think  of it, having imaginary relationships with someone is more than little creepy.  Changing it means doing something very difficult but not outside of the realm of possibility for anyone.   Introspection. You need to accept yourself as you are. Identify the ways you sabotage yourself and what the root causes are. (For me ED was a massive worry)  Also Let go of the crushes, lower the standards, focus on what's in your control.  Weirdly, the moment I stopped trying so hard, I found my wife.
YEEESS QUEEN NATALIE IS BACK
great episode, congratulations!
The fact that people like Andy Milonakis both exist and can get laid kind of disproves every incel talking point.
Hey at least those men seem to have wanted sex, I usually get men looking to have a political and philosophical debate in the tinder DM.
Let me date you! I am not looking to smell your panties, but we can drink wine and brush each others hair.
"I bake my own bread" / "I am ultra masculine" *MY SIDES ARE IN ORBIT* Who the fuck doesn't cook? And no, frozen pizza doesn't count, it's just a particular boring form of cooking.
OMG I completely lost it at Roosh trying to justify himself for making food. XD
Is there a term for an *Actually Decent Incel* ..?   Like, dudes..why can't us virgins just die alone with honor & dignity? (You know, like *LUKE SKYWALKER* )
I can completely relate to thinking that you are just genetically unfuckable. Even with all the hookups i have had I still think this sometimes. Usually when I look in a mirror I just hate what I see. It can be really hard not to hate yourself and believe the problems you have are due to some fundimental aspect of your existence.
The digital self harm thing reminds me of meanspo. I look at that shit oof me
But why skulls? ⚆ _ ⚆
Damn Ollys reading is hot
Contra absolutely nailed the comparison between /lgbt/ and incels. I felt myself empathizing uncomfortably strongly with the quotes from incel boards. I told myself I went to tttt for the basic transition advice, and truth be told SOME of it is good. But the general toxicity and the attitude of throwing "hons" under the bus made me realize it was in my best interest to stay far away, and in my last post on the board months ago, I urged other trans women who were struggling to do the same. Stay far away from these communities AND the mindset they propagate - you'll be happy that you did.
I think Becky is much cuter than Stacey
I just finished a mini Berserk readin-marathon and I don't know what's more disturbing : 20 tomes of Berserk or incels' worldview
"Stacy' 'Chad' "tyrone' "femoid' - Honestly what 90's movie did these people crawl out from????
Your presentation of information impressed as always. Another masterpiece
4chan is only good for jacking off to porn
Good video ContraPoints I was nervous laughing. You always make great videos, and I am glad that the music was still audible but not so loud that I struggled to hear you! <3 This might be my new favorite video of yours although, I say that every video.     For real though, that all can't be real right? A huge culture around the word of INCEL.
I didn't expect Natalie to hit, so hard, why I stopped going to 4chan. Especially since I never went to the problematic boards, I only went to the more innocent ones like /v/ and /b/ and they still lead you down that awful brain-melting hole.   Let me be clear: You are not having fun there. There's nothing you're gaining from going to that site. You will be happier if you stop.
amazing video as always <3
I need a ContratPoints ASMR channel now.
'calm down lesbian stans im still attracted to women' I feel so called out rn
Also what the f is this ASMR shit? I don't know what it is, I don't get it and I won't allow it.   (I assume you're all lying, in on the joke and it doesn't actually do anything. That must be it.)
Just discovered this channel and I am already convinced this may be top 10 YouTube content.
Rofl you even admit you can't deconstruct these arguments intellectually. They are effective tools for analyzing human behavior and social structures. I'm sure you really did try to argue on some of the forums, but you were soundly defeated by people with sophisticated versions of this philosophy. Obviously many of these men are in the anger phase and are usually young ignorant teenagers, but that doesn't mean the logic isn't sound. Also there is still hope for you if you haven't chopped that dick off. You openly admit you are a straight man. Don't give into these hyenas clamouring for you to mutilate yourself.
finally a hot transsexual intellectual.
Why are incels how they are?    Loneliness.    And there's something inside me, probably comes from watching too much Game Grumps that makes we want to see you do a Let's Play of Super Seducer with Lindsay Ellis.    I always had the suspicion that Roosh V was a Master Baker (not even Anti-Social Media would claim that joke)    On a more serious note, I'd also like to see you and Lindsay also like to do a Let's Play of _Everlasting Summer._    I think that game kind of shows what it's like to be a lonely young shut-in.    And as a colourblind straight white man, you've got me changing the IKEA colour strip from a golden yellow (I think, I'm brown/green colourblind) to PAAAAAAAANK!!!!!  And as a straight man, I think I've used the phrase "you confuse my boner, hon" before you transitioned.  I feel a bit guilty knowing that this is probably still affecting you negatively now.  I guess this is why I say that I'm ...latently transphobic... :C  That's the thing about incel forums, they won't even allow women on their forums.    And the thing is, this is nothing new.  I had feelings about women similar to this when I was in my twenties, I actually too pleasure in rejecting them because I had been rejected for a lot of my life.    Before the incels was the Loveshy community, before Loveshy there was the soc.men newsgroup.    And I went to those communities looking for answers...  ...but I left very quickly because I wasn't going to get answers, I wasnt going to get self-improvement, basically, what you said.    I had problems that I wanted to solve.    And I think male communities for the inadequate need to separate themselves from those who would encourage their members to wallow in their own misery.
This is one of your best!!!
You always have such topical videos. Love you and your analytical style!
I've been having a hard time lately after a breakup, and really feeling a bit commonality with incels, and I knew it was a really bad direction to go and a really slippery slope. Thank you for this video, because you have made a definite impact on my life right now, and as usual from your other videos.
This video a 58.93/10 at LEAST.
The concept of fucking up your mental health through catastrophizing is interesting and I immediately thought of several people I know who do/did this, and online communities that could potentially work this way. Both SJW and antiSJW communities seem to fit, I've seen plenty of people break down on tumblr or reddit, shrieking about the neverending stream of "invasive SJW bullshit"/"hidden nazi propaganda" and how they can't seem to escape it anywhere at any time. (while clearly indulging in these communities based on constantly posting, consuming and discussing the currently hottest outrage)  When it comes to lingo, self loathing and a weird mix of support and tearing down of others, oh boy - communities for balding men are a perfect example. (would not recommend even looking out of curiosity)
If anyone wants to prove incels wrong. Well I'm an incel. Date me or debate me.   Before anyone says "clean up your act" you know nothing about me. I went to college, got a degree, I own my own car, and house already paid off in a pretty nice area. I have a decent albeit not perfect personality once you get to know me. And for over 16 years I've been an involuntary celibate. 16 fucking years. I see homeless bums, fat guys, and drug addicts in happier life situations. It's just reality. Maybe someone can give me the secret I've been missing out on over the years but I've heard it all. "personality" etc. is the most common one. Along with "get a job" and a variety of other things. I'd love for someone to prove me wrong.
The inherent eroticism of the sea had me laughing so hard. Take me, mommy~
Skulls are really interesting, I've been thinking about them recently, primarily as symbols of death. But what is it we like about them so much?
HOW DARE YOU SAY THINGS THAT ARE ENTIRELY TRUE?! Lol. Wonderful video. Just divine.  Also, imagine just the failure of imagination that is being incapable of picturing a sexy masculine baker.  Like, just imagine, Roosh there, with his majestic beard, wearing only a kitchen apron, all sweaty and covered in flour. He calls the girl whom he's teaching to make bread, he pulls her closer and gently guides her arms, while he says "Making bread is like a science", whispering softly and making her shiver... ... ... erotic fiction that writes itself XD. You might wanna try it, Roosh, maybe you could call it "The incredibly masculine bread scientist"... not very catchy... maybe "The baker"... no, no, not your style... oh, I got it. Call it "BREAD", all caps. There. I've made my pitch. Just wait now...
I'm relatively new to your channel and my eloquence is limited so I'll keep it brief: I love your channel.   Your channel and Philosophy Tube are the best channels, imvho. Keep doing great stuff!
Loved the point about being drawn to negativity on the internet. It's part of why I started engaging with the Abigails of the world in the first place... And yes, it's been equally bad for my mental health at times.
This was a interesting episode. It wasn't sympathetic to incels, but it wasn't bashing and making fun of them. The contact I've have with incels when people post some absurd thing they say on Reddit to make fun of them.  I also sympathized with you, the way you described how you felt transitioning is basically what my girlfriend feels. She has serious self-esteem and self-image issues.
That was honestly incredible from start to finish! I think this is something that really needed to be talked about, and your explanation was so inciteful and well formed. I never really related to incels, so this really helped me understand why they feel like that. It's clearly a difficult state of mind to come back from, and I hope this video helps them see that all hope isn't lost.This is the first video of yours that I've come across, and I'm honestly blown away by the production. I'll be spending the rest of the day watching everything else :)
I'll never look at a beach the same way again.
I think it's sad that we don't talk about the plight of volcels, and how we have to not masturbate so we can join Iran's elite gaming battalions so as to tell people in voice chat what is and isn't haram.
GODDAMN IT CONTRA! You really have to stop trying to get people to drown themselves. I get that you made a deal with the Sea Gods, but you can't off someone else to pay your own damn piper.
Looking at the braincels sunreddit I was most shocked about the amount of xenophobia and especially the anti-refugee sentiment.  Intresting how those to seem to correlate so often if you think about it
So...How long till Star Wars fans start talking about Luke's and Rey's bone structures?
I fall a little bit more in love with Natalie every time she posts a video.
but how do I know I made sweet love to the sea and henceforth no longer sea-celibate?
OH SHIT... that self loathing cycle, that’s so real... wanting to hear people’s “real” opinions and NOT taking compliments... OOF that hit home bdjskskdj
You pointing out virtual self harm made me realize how much I do the same. I'm kinda reeling from this revelation.
holy SHIT thats an amazing intro
How does one person so perfect exist on this very planet
by the way your skull is so lovely. I'm serious!
There's something so incredibly alluring about the way Natalie talks about things
Maybe  taking up a sport would help too? I don't mean join a competitive division 1 team, I mean jog and work for PRs, bike Strava segments, learn Jiu Jitsu, skate, whatever -- stuff that mere mortals can easily do. Not a panacea by any means, but it's a good way to have control over something in your life , and movement and excercise  have a ton of physical and mental benefits.
This is amazing. Thank you.
I'm a relatively new transwoman, and I haven't started HRT or anything like that yet (just been doing dress-ups and trying out make-up and going to salons with my sestra), but many of your videos capture my irrational fears, but you also help me to realize that they are, at times, irrational. I'm also very fortunate to have a strong support network with my friends and family.  My biggest fear came when I confessed to my boyfriend, whom I've been seeing online (no, he's not a serial killer, and I'm not a trap or catfish) for a few months at that point, that I was a pre-op, pre-HRT transwoman. At first he was confused and heartbroken, but he kept saying he wanted me to be who I wanted to be and that I had his support, and then after a very emotional discussion, he said that he still loved me and realized that he truly did and he didn't care that I wasn't assigned female at birth or even that I wasn't post-op yet -- he loves me for me.  We're still together, and anytime the dysphoria is overwhelming or I feel awful/disgusted by my body, he reminds me that he loves me and that what matters to him is who I am, not what I look like.
I loved this
first, that sparkly top is fantastic!  second, "firing squad of bad dick" is something i'm stealing to use irl
it’s funny that these people got “Red pill” from a movie made by trans sisters.
You’re so weird. I love you lol
Metaphysical speculation is the new science.
You're absolutely enchanting. I already knew about Incels and their awful ways, but I had to stay for your charisma.  You've earned a subscriber.
This is my favorite video so far!  That kind of self harm is such a trap.
You legit are a pretty girl and I'd have a hard time knowing you transitioned st all.
holy fuck I wasn´t ready for this video
I cant believe everyone is saying I imagined Natalie leaning into the skull and kissing it passionately, what kind of pervert do you all think i am? I think it says a lot about you all that is what you imagined i was thinking about.
The last third of this video made me start thinking about how ever since I realized I was a trans woman I digitally self harmed by hate reading terf blogs and then anxiety spiraling about the possibility that they might be right. I hadn’t really considered until now why I did that but now it makes a lot more sense
people cut themselves for a lot of reasons. for me it's punishment.
She's so cool, I want to be her when I grow up (I have no idea what her age is and I might be older than her but that's irrelevant)
You're one of the most careful and empathetic personalities I follow on the interwebz, thanks for making content like this.  I hope those in the manosphere get the help they need.
I've seen every one of your videos and I honestly think this is your best so far. Ollie really adds something to it - his acting in the voiceovers makes them more fun.  Best wishes Natalie. Stay on point.
Please stop overly feminizing your voice. We get it, you're a trans woman. Just speak naturally because that phony high pitched voice is ingratiating
Can somebody enlighten me on the problematic joke about the 2500 tinder likes? I genuinely don't get it. Granted it seems like a weird thing to say, but why?
Wait is that narrator the Chicken Nugger Guy???  Also: readdesert.org
this video introduced me to the concept of digital self harm. recognizing myself in incels was a hard pill to swallow (ha) but now i can see where my faults lie and work towards taking better care of myself. so... thanks!
you literally made a video talking about how trans people feel like shit and society should cater to them more because of internal hatred it causes. Now you make a dumb video like this? Jesus christ you're such a fucking chad. Seek sunlight. Gain Height. Lift weights. then hit the showers
If women would have sex with incels, then there wouldn't be incels anymore.   Buuuuuuuuuuut I guess women don't care about the children that are at risk from ebil incel misogyterrorists. Oh well
I aspire to one day be half as brilliant a filmmaker as Natalie.  Also, I don't know if this is relevant, but I am a ciswoman who can never find a hat that fits in a store. Even the ones for men are too small on me.
About a couple of years ago i was invited into a discord server for fans of a then inactive youtube channel that used to have a bit of a cult following on 4chan when i was an edgy teen. well, when i joined the server it was full of the people youd expect to see on 4chan now. general bigots, reactionary, and outright fascists. after a short while most of the more moderate people left, because, well, nazis just arnt nice to be around. but not me, i stuck at it. I stayed talking to these people for about 6 months or so, and even made a few friends with them in spite of the vast ideological chasm between us, and the constant arguments we had. it was interesting, as we all got to know each other a bit more the conversations developed from just shitposting and talking about hobbies, to actually talking about our daily lives, our relationships, a bit more personal stuff.  These people would not themselves identify as incels, but did occupy the same spaces as them, and often had very similar ideas about women and relationships. And let me tell you, it was genuinely horrifying to see the way they talk about people in their lives, and the women they interact with and how their worldview is such an obvious hurdle to any form of empathy or a genuine human connection with someone of the opposite sex. Its weird seeing it close. I almost have sympathy for the world they have created for themselves, but honestly, its the hell they deserve. they arnt changing their minds any time soon, and they are a serious threat to anyone they see as degenerate, which includes me btw, something they didnt shy away from mentioning. We could be civil, share jokes, and even have emotional conversations, but when push comes to shove, i genuinely believe they have made their mind up about me, and a lot of people i love. And it aint looking good for us.   Really great video Natalie, fantastic work as always. you give me a little bit of hope and joy on this whole mess.
Why do people seek out abusive comments? I think it has to do with anxiety. People don't want to acknowledge the anxieties they have about themselves as being irrational or untrue. Maybe because of an unfounded belief that if it wasn't true, they wouldn't believe it, or maybe it just seeps in due to exposure to this anxiety, who knows? And in some ways, abuse can feel cathartic. Yeah, it's harmful, but it also proves that you were right to be anxious. That sucks, but it's a narrative that makes sense, and more importantly, it can give a sense of certainty to a situation that had an uncomfortable lack of it before. I think there is something inherently stressful about not knowing the answer to some things, that it's actually much easier to *know* something awful is true than suspecting it might be false but never being sure. But, at least in my experience, convincing yourself that your anxieties are true doesn't actually stop the anxiety long-term. In fact, it usually makes them worse. And so it can lead to that death spiral, where it's easy to get sucked further and further in.  I also think that part of the twisted appeal of something like incels is that it combines this anxious pessimism with an absolution of responsibility. It basically says, "Yeah, every bad thing you worried other people were thinking is true. But that's not your fault! You're the victim in all this! Which is appealing on a like a dozen levels. It also requires no work and doesn't have a chance to fail, which makes it feel *certain*. And because the primary thing they are told to do about this is alternatively nothing or suicide, nothing ever changes or gets better, and suddenly the only way to get relief from the anxiety and fear becomes to further isolate yourself in this one community of people that *get it*.  That said, even understanding why (or at least one theoretical possibility for why) and going through similar cycles, it's hard to sympathize with incels. There are lots of ways to deal with anxiety and depression, and most of them don't involve being a massive prick to everyone who isn't like you.
a new ContraPoints video is like opening up the greatest present ever on Christmas morning
Hypothetically, my first question on tinder etc. would probably be along the lines of "Can you hold a 5 minute pose when I draw you?" Third date question; "how do you feel about early postmodernism?" X3
Damn your hot.
Who else saw Shaun in this video?
Btw your face is perfectly feminine enough already, don't worry too much about it, if it's just for how others think you look.
It never occurred to me that catastrophizing was something I did until you explained it to me, I think you just helped me understand myself a little better. thanks CP.
I didn't expect you to attack this topic from that angle. Awesome job!
You're a charming and intelligent woman.
Holy shit, this is the first video I've seen of yours and I love it. Love the attitude and the humor. Hope to see more!
God, it’s like me checking comment sections on articles about stuff that directly impacts me as a trans person. Fucccck
The Cure is Legalize Prostitution. but that's too far left for beta cucks.
26:08 WHERE CAN I GET THIS CREEPY RENDITION OF ZOË BLADE'S KNIGHTTIME?  it's so good and creepy <3 i love zoë blade so much  ok i found it it's knighttime blasted mix <3 it's great http://zoeblade.com/
This is my favourite video you've made. As someone who's never been in a Long Term Relationship and has an anxiety disorder, it can be really easy for me to digital self harm when I was at my worse. I love to gawk at strange and vile shit I find at the internet- and it usually is a good outlet for me. But with incels, their self hatred feels to close to home to be helpful.
Shit you need to prewarn me with an intro like that I wasn't ready
Your makeup looks amazing in this video!!
Oh no another sympathetic incel hot take about how they are just sad and lonely and need to shower D :  From somebody who has been very critical of letting Nazi's off the hook, you're so prepared to let male violence towards women get a pass just because of that cultural narrative of "it must be soooo hard for men to be rejected by women" like there aren't any women without sexual prospects.  I preferred the firing squad of dick for about 1 or 2 years, now I'd just prefer to be left the fuck alone :(  I'm sure you'll reach a point where the novelty and ego boosting of being hit on wears off and you realize that despite the constant attention, actual connection is impossible in this social climate.
I _flipping_ fuck.    Watch that language young man!
good work as always Natalie
"I break my own bread." and the sudden punch of the fake beard killed me.
This is incredible, Natalie. I'm grateful to you for your vulnerability and your honesty. You are courageous to expose yourself with such honesty. It is inspirational to many, including myself. It was not where I expected the video to go either, so, great direction on this episode as well. Thank you so much.
sometimes I wonder how far into the manosphere I would have gotten if I never transitioned. I was beginning to get swept away by it before I transitioned years ago and the only reason I stopped was because I started to experience misogyny.It makes me wonder if I can ever be a good person. what am I even if my entire worldview was saved by the luck of being a woman. Why did I need that to understand feminism. why couldn't I figure it out before I transitioned its so obvious to me now. My mind is haunted by alternate versions of myself that never transitioned and stayed in that culture and became redpilled and fashy or something. I can see it vividly and it scares me. I like to think I'm better than people like blair white but I don't think it is true. what if I got into that stuff earlier in my life, or decided to wait a year to transition? Do I even deserve to call myself a feminist or a leftist? idk if this post makes any sense but thinking about it hard is making me panic.
This was fucking amazing omg!!!
You really are very very beautiful <3
I spent all day cleaning my room, (maybe) saved a mouse from my two cats and I feel like this is my reward
12:10 Is Roosh slowly turning into a sexist Karl Marx? Could his approach to scientific baking be just a step towards scientific socialism?
hey /tttt/
is it me... or did the beeps for his dick get longer everytime
Mariana's Trench is seven miles deep.  Seven. Miles. Deep.  The ocean scares the shit out of me.
"you win today's discourse" i'm screaming
4chan hates everyone. it hate you, it hates me, it hates the neighbors' dogs, and it hates itself.  4chan users made demands for me to post nudes. they called me a beta, a slut, they told me to kill myself, they demanded my address. what 4chan really needs is to just be deleted from the internet. forever. no more 4chan
Indiana Jones and the Kingdom of the incel Skulls
Blackops2cel will strike you down faggot
“The virgin” alt right vs “The Chad” leftist
Haha yeah hit the nail on the head a lot there. I think if you are an edgy internet savvy guy and aren't particularly social you have to spend a lot of time resisting these depressing ways of thinking. I'd say i'm only partially effected and its still shit. Not an incel tho, we differ in a huge clear way. I would never kill myself and I hate myself way more that I can't even think about hating anyone else. I'm going to go get some mental health help soon enough. I'd say for me the big causes for my current state are biases that are repeatedly confirmed. Like for example I think women are generally creeped out if I'm anywhere near them and a girl basically told me to piss off because I sat too close to her in a crowded cafeteria in secondary school. Its little things like these that just feed into itself and becomes a recursive infection on your mind causing more and more of your problems. I'd say one of the most under-valued modern trait that is essential is not letting your biases be proved true so easily. Hopefully I can work past my flaws and actually become a healthier person as a result.
Bloatmaxxing saved  me from Inceldom.
Ugh speak truth to my soul
So gooooooood! ❤
“The chads with the fuckable skulls”  Fount my new ringtone, thanks Contrapoints!
PRAISE THE MOTHER OCEAN!!
Not relevant or important but who came up with chadpreet?  The others are actual name why not go with something like karan or rahul you sick fucks
I only started watching you recently, and even though I disagree with you on a lot of things at a fundamental level, your presentation, on point humor and openness to the "other side" is more than appreciable. This was truly a beautifully made and pertinent video and it settled my decision to subscribe and to come back checking off and on. I wish you the best in your future endeavor and continue to rock !
Can I get an audiobook of Olly reading of Incelese?
🍞🍞🍞🍞🍞🍞🍞
video: "We are talking bone structure" me: I hope this isn't going to involve measuring skulls. 5 min later: OMG no.
Great video
It's not like *you* know how a vulva looks, right "Natalie"?
There was a brief time where I considered myself an incel. I didn't go on forums or anything, because it wasn't a feeling I liked to dwell on, and I didn't see how talking about it to anyone else would improve it. I still have some of those same feelings, but honestly, seeing how trash self-identified incels are just makes this whole modern affliction that much more sad
Honestly thank god youtube recommended your channel to me, this video has made my whole week.
It's been ages since I've seen a good rainstorm. Does that make me involuntarily dry? I'm an in-dry?
Awesome video! However, I do have a point of criticism: You are becoming harder and harder to understand. Could you please speak a little bit more clearly? As a non-native speaker I have a really hard time understanding you :/
(Based on the fact that I was asked to prom twice in HS, and my first GF was the one who approached me, I'm pretty sure the things women want include 1) look them in the eyes when they talk, and B; have a sense of humour. @19:45 -ish sniffing panties is definitely more of a 2nd.5 base thing, right after 2.25 base, touching bare feet. Still not sure what base is "30 years married, retired, and still haven't gotten sick of each other." Somewhere between "hit it out of the park" and "third consecutive win of the world series."
Awesome vid. Was that Xexizy playing the role of "the incel" in the incel readings? ha ha, sweet, I bet he had a blast doing that.
Brilliant
you're so gorgeous i might cry
You should be a scientist get off youtube lmao
Informative, entertaining, and well produced as always. I think I needed to watch this because I've never taken the time to actually learn about inceldom and just wrote then off as a bunch of akward self loathing misogynists. While that's still true, this humanized them in a way that actually made me hopeful that many could and will grow out of it.  Also, you should put 'Internet Bigotry Scholar' on your resume. There have got to be researchers actually working to understand how bigotry evolves on the internet, which is both great that people are trying to understand it but horribly sad from the getgo.
Too bad incel didn't just stay as a support group. That is what these people need. That or legalized prostitution.
Incels have to invest their sexual energy into a hobby, for example I feel great after giving up on girls and investing all my sexual energy into drawing big titty clown comics
Cis or trans, 4chan is a toxic hellhole that exists to destroy your self esteem, and strip away your capacity for empathetic and reasonable interaction with your fellow humans. Avoid that place like the plague.
Well, this is grim. Thank you for sharing your thoughts on these subjects, they’re very informed and insightful
I just noticed that voice in the opening sounds very similar to VaatiVidya's.  Soothing, when it should be disturbing due to the topic
Wait yeah I'll take a corndog
*You must aquire additional femoids*
Can I say something I just figured out?: It is so empowering it is to hear Nat say transphobic things aloud every episode! I'm not kidding, every episode she says something really really really fucked up and I just laugh and cry and laugh again.   Because those aren't the things I hear people say, they aren't the ordinary transphobic things people say when I'm passing, or that people accidentally let slip out. Those are the transphobisms so transphobic that the only person I hear them from is me. In my own goddamn head.  So it makes me amazingly happy to hear them come out of her lips. Because it confirms that I'm not alone in all the hatred I've managed to internalize. Because it takes away the shameful secretive power of the thoughts I've never been able to explain to others. And because it shows how bitter, and small and ordinary is that thought, coming off of so many bitter and small and ordinary characters' lips. Well, maybe they aren't so ordinary. But they aren't monsters, they're humans who are silly and who I can imagine forgiving. I can suddenly imagine forgiving myself, too, for all the hateful things I think to myself.  So thank you, Nat, if you ever see this, for all you do for us. For all you've done for me.
Makin bacon pancakes.
Wow. That hypermaculine guy. I never thought such caricatures of toxic masculinity actually existed
contra's lightweight beautiful mostly in this for the thumbnails
Spoken like a total Stacy.
I need to send this to my brother
I love you
BROPOTKIN
Wow, this was heavy! I wish I never found 4chan. I very rarely go there anymore and I was never an incel or alt right, but.. yeah.  Also, Olly should apply to be a romance audiobook narrator. Boing.
there's already a thread about this video on r/Braincels  "Tranny spewing cringe inducing blue pilled platitudes" "We don't want your help. Get that through your thick skulls" (skulls again!)
They're beyond help. Send them to gulag.
I would also compare this to the "thinspo"/"pro-ed" community's on places like Tumblr. The obsession with being "datable" isn't that different than the obsession with being "thin enough" (in fact a lot of posts talk about wanting to be thinner to be more attractive to men)
Imagine the mouthfeel
It's like guys... you're not alone cause the bones in your face are too small, it's because you right creepy Reddit posts about "what it feels like" while being sexist pigs
Will we get more  ANTiIFA KITTY PERSON PLEASE
God it has been so long since one new video. But I fucking love each of them. I'll have to accept waiting for a high production value. I feel sorry for the people in the incels community. I certainly can relate to that kind of self hate. They need to cut those toxic habits now.
Contra uploaded a vid on incels? Is it my birthday?
Yeah, I get that. I had that mindset alot. But somehow I picked the productive things about the manosphere and applied it. I have no idea if self loathing got me to that point. But I can't look bad and really regret that time.
This is not a defense of incels or the black  pill, but I've heard of enough stories about sexless marriages and women settling for boring nice guys that they brushed off earlier in life to think there's some validity to alpha fux/beta bux.  Jordan Peterson himself is actually a pretty good example of a beta male/provider type which makes it weird that the internet accepts him as a masculinity guru.
Ew, tranny
Incels remaind me a LOT to toxic pro ana forums. Like "Roast me" topic are so popular. You post pictures so that everyone feeds the voices in your head that already hate the way you look. You need to feel fat, to see people who are skinnier than you to feel like a failure and keep feeding your obsession with your body, and your hate for yourself.  Many are skinnier than everyone they see IRL, so they go to the internet so that they CAN compare, and feel like they are failing. I still deal with a LOT of BD because of my ED, and reading incels it almost mirrors my own feelings sometimes, is so so weird
woah..
There have been some videos where your voice has been grating, but this video is good. idk why some videos it doesnt sound good.   I wouldn't worry about it though cause I dont like my own voice when I hear it recorded and I'm a "cis het" female.
"At least these _pricks_ care enough about my _pussy_ to be an _asshole_ about my _dick_ !"
Attila the Hon
This video was disappointing to me, as a natal female cis non-trans woman (for real). You should've hit the misogyny point way harder. To take on a group of people who notoriously hate women and are probably neutral towards trans women, and turn it around to make your viewers feel bad for YOU as a trans woman is insensitive at best, and purposely misogynistic at worst. Where do women go to "digital self-harm"? Well, for me and many other women it was red pill forums and, before it was deleted, r/incels. They have ways of hating my very genitals that triggered my self loathing like no one else could. I have noticed in past videos, esp "autogynophilia" that you are uninformed of the struggles and the lives of real women. This video made it very clear that obsessing over your far right man-cels has deprived you of educating yourself about the largest class of oppressed persons, women. Maybe even you actually have to look to external sources to really "imagine how a woman feels".
fuck roosh is so ducking cringy
Wait is that some kind of MGTOW dipshits?
So what is an ounce in metric?
75/10, loved this.
These terms incels came up with are hilarious. "Tyrone", lmao. These had to have been created by trolls.  Anyway, I kinda relate to incels. I've never even kissed a girl in a romantic context, and my only relationship was online with a girl in another country. I became depressed after she dumped me, and I'd given up on my belief in "the one". Without "the one", it felt like relationships were pointless. Now I feel different, like that even if the experience is short-lived, I'll still enjoy the ride. Only problem is, I'm so socially stunted and ashamed of my lack of experience that I'm too scared to try anything. I overanalyze everything and work myself up. I tried shrooms last week on the off-chance it might lead to real change, but I just felt drunk and nauseous. Fuck man...
I'll never think of Olly as anything but a Tyler Durden/Travis Bickle hybrid from now on.
Is there a portmanteau to describe *voluntary* celibates? Because that sounds more like me. With all the talk of skulls, I would be willing to advocate reverse phrenology behaviour correction (See, if phrenology is reading the shape of the skull to analyze mental characteristics, reverese phrenology is the alteration of personality by application of bumps to the head... ostensibly, with a medically sterilized clue-by-four). It has no support in the medical community, but I think it has merit. X3
I spent a month or two on TTTT like 4 years ago, it was certainly self harm.then I switched to r/gendercritical because they cut deeper. idk when I stopped or why.
Fuck, Contrapoints I was the exact same way on /LGBT/ a couple months ago. I started thinking stuff like “hon” and “Chad” and I got trapped nearly in the exact same thought process. I catastrophize a lot since then, and watching this really, really shook me up over it. Thanks, you cut this monster’s head off.
Oh my god this was so amazing. I’m dying 😵😂😂😂
imagine finding out that your boyfriend of several years was an incel but he never realized that was a bad thing
You and I are not ideologically aligned, but I still very much enjoy your videos about the manosphere and the alt right. You just have such a delightfully deadpan and yet theatrical delivery.   Well done.
Kinda feel like you whispering "Anal" needs to be my new text-message sound...
First world problems. If you had less time to worry about junks than worry about food and shelter for the next day, you'd be much happier than an incel.
VOLCEL IF YOU WOULDN'T  I'm dead 'cause it's true.
the internet doesn't deserve this
Betweeen this and Shannon Strucci’s latest Fake Friends episode I’m basically ready to leave the internet (but obviously won’t because I’m addicted to social media)
Chads of Color (COC)k
“Turned our serial killers faster than Marvel makes Avenger movies.”   🤣
Nearly orgasmed seeing the notification pop up for this.   You spoil us, Natalie. You're a regular David Attenborough.
I think a lot of people seek out negative places like that incel thread you mentioned, because that kind of cynicism can justify their passiveness. As long as they get reassured that they're 'doomed' to be incels, they can avoid feeling guilty for not acting.  As soon as they accept that they're just normal looking men who could find love if they tried, they'd have to acknowledge that they have some responsibility for their situation, and that they could change it, if they just bothered. To avoid that guilt, to avoid taking responsibility for even a little part of their misery, they seek out those horribly negative threads that validate their passivity.  And that is by no means an 'incel thing', to some degree we all do that. I know it took me years to acknowledge that I wasn't responsible for getting OCD, but I was responsible for not trying to improve it. I'd look up negative social media posts that mocked the advice people give for mental health, the posts dismissing therapy, medication, anything that has been proven to help, because as long as I did that, I never had to go through the very emotionally painful work of improving my mental health.
22:42 I need that music, its great.
not the corndogs! 6:55
I wish there was a way for a therapist or a team of therapists to go on these boards and help them... though with how the I internet and mind work I doubt it's possible.
8:04 I nearly spit my soda out lmfao
And once again, I've been enlightened.
so their explanation to all the people of all genders dating people of different "attraction level" that you see, when you walk down a street is what? that they do it because they want money or status from the other person?  also if you ever talked to different women, you'll find out that there is in fact not one chap, but a huge variety of tastes and types (same goes for men). i personally think our perception of beauty has a lot to do with the people we love early on in live and their feateres.
Beautiful
Thank you for this. I wish for there to be a second part where you covert he bizarre intersection of the incel community and the whole kek/right/gamergate stuff
Amazing work as always. That ending though lol
unobtainium - wtf xD
If I don't get a gf by 2023, I'll start looking into incel shit. But until then, I'll try to be normal.
This episode is incredible and informative on many different levels but I'm primarily happy to know ContraPoints is from Baltimore. More Maryland representation on YouTube, plz.
I did not expect to be sexually aroused by the sea today.
People sometimes don't realize that anger and anxiety have an addictive quality. When a person isn't happy and convinces themselves that they can't achieve happiness, they grasp onto the next best thing. Great vid CP. Love yah!
I am a man. I have body dysmorphia. Your analysis reminds me of the same things that I believe about myself. But I feel lucky enough to be cognizant of the fact that my beliefs are delusional. So I stay away from InCel stuff, because I know that I will believe it.
Looking at the sea disgusts me, massive boats are able to journey seaward for miles upon miles, yet my tiny Nonbuoy body can only manage a mile on a good day.
Very good video!  only thing that i think is "lacking" from it (but of course it's your vid Contra you do whathever you want) is that i think it's important to emphasize the fact that these guys are straight. like gay culture can be problematic in a few aspects, some gay men are very sexist, but it never turns into murderous misogyny. (probably bc the patriarchy makes het men hate what they desire? ahem)  also as a lesbian, i do wanna say that bi/lesbian girls, who seek other women, trully have a hard time getting laid too (due to exterior and internalized lesbophobia, the fact that women are not encouraged to be active in their sexuallity and even less so pursue other women). so a lot of us are lonely. but do we turn into raging misogynists??? NO! probably bc we are women ourselves, and because female solidarity is essential to our survival in a society that hates us.  PS : how are you so gorgeous ????
That intro made me queasy.
best video so far. love love love love this. best analysis, commentary, style, lighting, cutaways, features, and gags. the "masochistic epistemology" part is REALLY well put and tragically acurate. i think we've spent time in a lot of the same places, specifically /lgbt/, and the resemblance between them and the blackpill types is uncanny for sure. keep up the great work 💖 also pls come back to the Northeastern US sometime soon? i missed the meetup in Boston 😭
realizing philosophytube was reading the monologue at the beginning made me cringe sooooooo much. i only want to hear him talk about communism not about ladies :,(
Becky and Stacy are girlfriends
I used to be an incel long before it was cool, just as I was a neo-fascist before it was cool (thanks Jobbik and Fidesz).  I was under the influence of my father's philosophy, which was very similar to Jordan B Peterson's, only he uses wolves instead of lobsters and fruit eating monkeys, he doesn't know about the Myers-Briggs personality types so he uses astrology, and has a very fucked-up political view that mixes Stalinism with eugenics, racism, and weed. He pretty much made me to hate my mother with a passion for a while. I also really feared to make any contract with girls of my age (I was a teen) as I feared that I could end up in a bad divorce, I was a metal elitist and wanted a big tiddy metalhead gf who didn't smoke or listen to those godawful Hungarian alt-rock bands, etc.  Funny thing is that it was anime that slowly saved me. Spice and Wolf introduced me to a slightly different relationship dynamics, that was enough to kick me out from my father's misogynistic propaganda (also from antisemitic conspiracy theories, since now I had an alternative to them in the form of economics). Others include Revolutionary Girl Utena (which made it clear to me that it's okay to converge from gender norms) and Vandread (which is a sexist trash, but unintentionally destroyed any leftover gender separatism inside me since it made fun of that).  After almost ten years, I still don't have any advances towards women. Most people who aren't ultranationalist and had the chance already left the country, while I stuck here thanks to my college, not being able to get an internship which is required for my degree. So most that are still here are trad-women, which make me puke. While incels would be turned on by their submissiveness (until they realize that these trad-women are probably the closest thing to the gold-digger stereotype), I'm instantly turned off by how they excuse "discipline" (which is emotional abuse and smacking your wife) and even martial rape. The fact that I live in probably the worst area of Hungary and have autism doesn't help anything. However I no longer need to form an identity around it. I probably could start a "leftcel" movement while blaming heteronormative white-supremacist capitalism instead of rampant feminism. I'm bisexual and my family is very bigoted, I cannot currently imagine that if I get a boyfriend instead of a girlfriend, or a Roma or Asian partner, I'll be allowed to live with my parents, which is necessary since I cannot find a job that's not in a city where the rent costs more than the minimum wage, so I have to live in whatever sweatshop factory provided housing, probably with 12 beds per room.
This is actually so smart, it has really made me realize how a lot of the internet works it's so god you guys
Yaas been waiting for this!
They have many major flaws in their thinking, onr of which is the idea pf equal distribution of attractiveness. The fact is, it isn't equally distributed. This is because men have evolved not to need it as much. Women needed attractiveness, because men naturally provided. This caused women to seek out less attractive men who provided better, so they had to do less
It's night I can't laugh this loud or I'll wake my neighbors
lmao Olly's American voice
that's it...my kids arent allowed on the internet till their 13.
I found the commentary really illuminating and interesting and all but goddamn: I *adore* the color palates and lighting you used in this video. Gorgeous jewel tones! McCandless lighting techniques! High contrast! Sparklies! Gosh, this video is just so epically pretty. Also your hair looks amazing, casual back-swept up-do with face-framing locks is my jam. Commentary is also on point, but I will need to re-watch to fully absorb because I spent so much time admiring the lighting choices. MMmmmm so much warm/cold high contrast dramatic lighting I could just die.
your videos are sooooo good it actual makes me wet
17:48 😘😘 we love u xxxx
Thanks
You displayed incredible sympathy to people who actively push it away. That's hard to do. It's hard to look at people who say things like "women deserve to be raped" and "we should all be assigned a wife" and respond with "you need help and understanding". They are profoundly lonely, and trapped in a cycle. This is when having a peer group goes incredibly wrong. They need different sort of friends than what they have sought out.   I love your videos, keep it up!!
I’ve been guilty of telling trans friends they are beautiful even when I think they are dressing like Blanche on the Golden Girls, and not in a hot way. You though are really inspiringly I want to paint you pretty.
I...  I didn’t realize water could be a kink.
I genuinely dont get the end. Why am I dumb. TELL US SOCRATES, TELL US!
The idea that if it hurts it’s true is one I still struggle with about my own body, even as a cis woman. Not to co opt this idea because I think there’s been enough of that, but more just to relate: seeking out those things that will hurt me has been something consistent in my own mental health. Time to stop digitally self harming and get out of this toxic mindset!
The sour grapes comment made me wince
mmmm bravo~!!
this habit of internet self harm is really disturbing... it was common on my early teens for instance for girls in my class to go on blogs about anorexy and bullimia and end up being anorexic or bulimic themselfs - sometimes those acts and habits came with the same logic you explain on the video: if you are feeling lonely and unlovable it is because your not thin enough... its just heartbreaking to think people really feed themselfs with those websites and dont realize how they are hurting themselfs immensily... and those blogs also tended to be extremelly misoginistic too, but in a fenomenon of girls hating girls. its a weird fucked up world we live in...
I'm autistic and I'm a sexual freak
But once one combines black pill and LDAR, doesn't that make them a DARK LDAR (Warhammer 40k joke)
What incels remind me of a lot is the male version of the pro-ana websites. Those things convince a 15-year-old girl with low self-esteem that the best way to become attractive, develop willpower, and gain control over her life is to starve herself. This sometimes leads to death. The incel boards convince a 15-year-old male virgin with low self-esteem that the best way to gain some measure of control over his life is to accept the fact that he will never have sex or any kind of intimacy with a woman and will lead a dark, depressing and hopeless life. This can sometimes lead to suicide or, in rare cases, murder.     Most teenagers have low self-esteem and think they are ugly or weird, and most of the teenagers around them mirror this back because they to have low self-esteem. It is perfectly normal to be a virgin into your twenties, especially now, when conservative trends of all sorts are back in style.  Short guys, poor guys, autistic guys, guys with drug problems, can all get laid and even get girlfriends sooner or later. I know, because I have been all of those things.  Granted, I have a good chin, but still.    Trust me, though, if you give women the impression that you hate women, well, even if they find you atractive, they will not want to be alone with you, if only because they are, with good reason, scared to be.
Great video Contra, although there's one important point I think you overlooked. As someone who has had self-esteem issues relating to women, dating, desiriability, etc. I think a good deal of it comes from the false ideas pushed onto vulnerable kids and teenagers from the steaming shitpile that is mass media. I can remember watching teen movies, listening to pop songs, etc. and feeling like I *had* to "get the girl" or "get laid by hot chicks" to be happy, because all of these attractive men on a screen in front of my face were, and so that if I didn't do that I would somehow be "failing as a human." Obviously, I think a good chunk of incels have been similarly brainwashed, and the idea that there can legitimately be more to a relationship than just superficial sex or Hollywood-style """perfect romances""" is totally alien to them. In their heads, if they're not in a relationship or not having sex constantly with Stacies, they've failed their fundamental task as a male, and hence have nothing to feel good about. If the movies, songs, books, etc. we were exposed to growing up portrayed more grounded, heartfelt and nuanced depictions of sex and relationships (instead of the lame "boy meets girl, girl solves all of boy's problems" usually in these things) a lot of young men and even women would have a healthier attitude towards going out and relating to the opposite sex.
This was legitimately your best video (except maybe the JP video)
Does Roosh not know that a man can be a baker and that, at least in some cases, people with the last name Baker had great great great grandfathers who were Bakers? (Maybe more greats than that but the point is that last names used to reflect profession).   what a strange, strange man.
Was that Olly doing the voice over?
Well shit I thought I was the only one that intentionally went to peak at 4chan for “”the hard truth”” to confirm all my insecurities
For what it is worth, if I hadn't been told elsewhere I wouldn't know that you were trans.
Have I been pronouncing "a priori" wrong this whole time, or did she?
this video was so good pls defenestrate me
I love you.
"Firing squad of dicks!" 😂😂😂
"I am ultra-masculine, as you can see."
I don't even understand how this video could be so insightful and also hilarious. Actually I do, the creator cares and puts a lot of effort into their work. Fantastic.
thanks mom
holy shit i love you (but we knew that already)
The Chad republic the Virgin islands.
One of my favorites of all of your videos  💖
The harsh truth for these infantile dudes is that women aren't so superficial and fiercely appearance oriented as they are. Lots of women are with men despite them not being ultimate hunks, because they value their personality and form deep and rich connections to them. I frequently encounter couples of hideous dudes with very cute girls. Being ugly on the outside or poor is bad but if you are a dick about everything and sound like a psycho, no healthy mind will want to be with you.. Ever..
Secondary channel dedicated to erotic descriptions of thunder storms please.
Wait, you're not Womz! It was you all along, Manosphere!
Ricecel + CurryCel = Yum.
The irony is that incels chasing Stacy's is itself hypergamous. If incels treated Becky's with respect and dignity, the Becky's might actually want to be in a relationship with them
Hmm I tend to seek out people who hate me just so I can tell them to fuck off it's kinda my way of dealing with my insecurities
mulher eu te venero
hands down top content contra i tip my fedora m'lady
Men under 17.78cm wrists, swipe left.
queen of nuance and empathy ! (i could never stomach going through those forums, but the insight in trying to understand why these communities exist is critical to ensure the safety of the persons not only they wish to inflict violence on, but also themselves...) the work you're doing on this channel is super important and amazing!!
I look up to ypu for inspiration....
Another fucking masterpiece; it would have been too easy to make just a "making fun of" video, but instead you put some good analysis without shying away from showing your personal experience. (I think I made this comment already, lol). Anyway, I guess the spooky skeletons inside us were our masters all along.
Came to see a video on incels, came to sea.
God damn it, I love every return  B A N G   in these videos. So, so much.
<3
I’m very overweight, with bad hair, Asperger’s syndrome, and a below-average-sized dick. I still managed to find a fulfilling relationship that lasted almost two years. The trick is to do theatre, which means you make plenty of platonic female friends, which teaches you to treat them as human beings.
The golden goddess of contrapoints has risen
Bae <3
Was subscribing to ContraPoints the best decision I ever made? Probably not but maybe....just.... maybe
there are only two genders baking and daddy
kinda scary that everything is split into a binary here in their logic, even when describing people.  either way, contra, i feckin' love you and if it makes you feel good you've helped me with my own identity, watching your older videos and then the newer ones make me think I could someday be myself too.  you're a beautiful person both in and out.
As a gay guy, I also appreciate the firing squad of dicks. I appreciate that women feel unsafe in this world of predatory men, but honestly, my overwhelming feeling toward the plight of less than average looking men in modern dating is one of deepest sympathy. I feel that many straight women don' know their own privilege here, while straight men cannot but know theirs, in other aspects of life, as they are reminded every day. I think that if we could all be honest about how unfair dating culture was to straight guys, I'd be so much better at having a conversation about some disadvantage faced by women without being an awful fucking conversation-derailing MRA at some point. As it stands, I can only hold feminist conversations in good faith for so long, before ending the conversation with some awful taboo such as that I think it might be nice if men's advances toward women were judged based on the actual action rather on how attractive the man is perceived to be by the woman. I loved your video Contra; you can always be relied on to balance fierce sass with due empathy.
cool reverb
Came across incel forums and incelry a few months ago and started wondering what the heck this was all about, then Contra comes out with this. <3
Fantastic as always <3 I think it´s very brave of you to open up on youtube about your insecurities and the challenges of your past and present, thanks for sharing
Great episode, feels like a good nexus of the previous topics talked about on the channel. The slang was always present but I never knew about it.
"The manosphere exists because Rock and Roll is dead."  YOU'RE A QUEEN AND ONE OF MY FAVORITE FUCKING YOUTUBERS
I would date you because I think you are great, smart, funny and many more :0
Oh God. The rant you read at the end sounded kinda similar to something a friend of mine said after he had a few beers in him. Which really fuckin threw me off and creeped me out.  Yeah how do you get through to these people? I’ve known this guy since childhood, and it makes me sad. I almost want to send this vid to him, but he’s kinda down the “anti-SJW” (ugh) rabbit hole, so I doubt he’d receive it well. I dunno. Man fuck these forums. They ruin people.
*starts imagining the eroticism of a rainstorm*
Wow ContraPoints, this was such a Home Run.  Really nailed it. Can I smell your panties?
I think most of these people, maybe all of them, are “mentalcels” as they might say. A lot of them probably don’t even realize the mental and social disorders that they likely have.  Also you, ContraPoints, shouldn’t apologize for feeling empathetic towards these people. Like yeah, their behavior is bad. But they weren’t born like this. They have been failed by society in many ways. Showing empathy for people who’s behavior makes them easy to hate shows you are a better person, not a worse one.  And before anyone starts burping feminist buzzwords at me, the ways in which these people have been failed by society are a bit more nuanced than “hurp derp masculinity toxic”.
This is absolutely your best one yet.
33:25 Is nature porn a thing? I feel like it should be a thing.  Also, as a lesbian, I just want to say Natalie IS truly gorgeous. I usually don't like the glam-up look on women, but my goodness is she gorgeous. So thanks for being brave and sharing your transition journey, Natalie! You're the one who motivated me to actually look into more information to try understanding our trans brothers, sisters, and more in the community. <3
I'd fuck the sea. I'd fuck it so hard.
Everyone laughed at me. But i fucking knew that i had the right idea when i wanted to start my own nature porn site. Now they are gonna be everywhere. Fantastic.
i m honstly impressed by these videos every time. the visuals, the narration the script.. its really good stuff. thanks
Hi from /femgen/! Question: you gonna say Skullchan’s name or what?
That moment when you're hydrophobic
Natalie, I almost want you to do a video on 4chan, but so much of what has been said here applies to the rest of that site's culture, both in, and beyond /lgbt/, that it may not be worthy of the length and detail posited here. Still, the site, its history, and its culture may be worth inspection, if you think its worth it.
These guys need Camus
Bread Scientist... friggin' DYING over here!
+Contrapoints You're a piece of absolute super cool person. ...sorry for the weird opening, I was hoping to get your attention by starting to appear to make a negative comment, to then flip it around. Hope it got a terrible laugh or a chuckle at least. Always enjoy your videos.
Why did Olly put on an American accent when reading the really messed up posts of the Incels?  I mean, it works, but I'm just curious why- Mass Shootings!
ｔｈｅ Ｉｎｈｅｒｅｎｔ Ｅｒｏｔｉｃｉｓｍ ｏｆ ｔｈｅ Ｓｅａ Aphroditite was born from uranus's loin from the ocean
You do sound like a cross between an intentionally bad falsetto, Winnie the Pooh, and Mickey Mouse though.
You're... you're outing yourself for *baking bread*. Why are MGTOW the fucking stupidest people on earth. Why. How did they get this way. How does anyone think Roosh V isn't the most pathetic loser on Earth.
"Ultra masculine bread scientist"  I'm dying. Roosh can't be a real person, he is a caricature, a parody of a human being.
wow. just wow.
“At least these PRICKS care enough about my PUSSY to be an ASSHOLE about my DICK.”  So much to unpack there, TranSeinfield.
Someone tell Roosh that most people need to cook themselves food to survive
Do you know Alan Robarge? He's a psychologist who mainly deals with attachment trauma. I think his content is GOLD. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sn0UlRaVh6Y
This was well done. The "Red Pill" term is so damn diverse in it's meaning xD I will just put out there that the Men's Rights peeps also have a lot of different things to say, some of which is not garbage.
Oh yeah, the sea, that hot little bitch
Abigail what's your damage?
Wait..someone still talks about Paris Hilton?
Rational wiki the video aka snark in place of looking at Pareto distributions and opportunity costs.
"At least these pricks care enough about my pussy to be an asshole about my dick!"   Quote of the Day right there.
The last part of your video absolutely hit home for me. I used to be insecure about my imagined racial shortcomings and I would go on chimpania and other racists sites just to feel worse about myself and then project it to other minorities. I can relate to the incels and trans people on that.
You are such a delight. I hope you keep making videos for a long time.
Former femoid here, and I def have a chad skull. Idk how I grew one but hey as an asexual who has sex I'm probably the exact opposite of an incel.   Also if you got thick wrists, then you don't need a d***
I wanna die
Shit okay I am feeling really stupid but what was the problematic thing?
*Society is fucked, politics is fucked, male psychology is fucked, the dating world is fucked, sexual attitudes are fucked, beauty standards are fucked, echo chambers are fucked, the media is fucked, the internet is fucked, hysterical nonscience-based pop psychology is fucked, lonliness is fucked up, self loathing is fucked up, resentment and jealousy is fucked-up, the concept of virginity is fucked up, schools are fucked, the work place is fucked... and these guys don't get fucked. For so many more reasons too.* I feel for them, I really do, and it scares me that I understand them so well when I look inside myself but, no good can come of hurting others and maybe, just maybe, that's what they want. They don't know how else to be anymore. They only know pain and hatred.
Sartre got laid so can everyone else
In Britain a "roastie" is a delightful potato snack. As an Englishman I'm horrified to only just discover that this isn't a community made to discuss which sides best accompany a Sunday dinner.
So my takeaway for this video is:  You’re saying you’re on tinder?
34:31 Paranoid Android, Rain Down.
Thanks for the Mendelssohn
Please do an ASMR video that is just you tapping a skull for fifteen minutes.
thank you so much for bringing up digital self harm. i never went near incel circles but i fell pretty deep down the tumblr discourse hellhole and what broke me out of it was realizing that i was only getting involved because i wanted to feel angry. i still stare at the discourse occassionally but im in a much healthier place since i left it behind
I feel like if people keep convincing themselves that something will NEVER happen, or they will NEVER achieve something, then they will never be able to achieve it. I mean, what will they get if they get rid of all their hope or motivation? After that, they'll never try to achieve anything, right? I just find it kinda stupid, to tell themselves nothing will change.
16:29 "so many mass murderers" Whoah! Is this statistically sound? For real, since mass murderer is very rare, if you use Bayes rule to find the probability of being a MM given that you are an incel p(MM|I), is it really high?
I'm loving your makeup/look in this
wow, that may be the closest any form of coverage on this issue had come to making me feel sympathy for this particular misogynistic cult, still don't, because they fucking murder people, and also because I also have gone a while without getting dates and it hasn't turned me into a literal monster. It actually forced me to accept that I am not owed sex or attention, I've had those things in the past, I hope to have them in the future, but for now I'm just living my life and enjoying it as best I can... There are other things human beings can do to entertain themselves that don't involve fucking, or starting a death cult on 4chan. I'm sorry, but as the right always likes to bring up, there is this thing called personal responsibility, and it is a real thing, its just usually misused in bad faith arguments. Blaming an entire gender for your inability to get laid is just not acceptable, a more healthy outlook might be to recognize the atomizing nature of neoliberalism and how it makes things like sex a commodity... you know, like a Marxist would. If we could turn all that pent up rage and sexual frustration against capitalism, that would be an improvement.   Also, entertaining as always. Its truly a credit to your talent that you can make such a depressing and utterly fucked up topic enjoyable to learn about.
Can you be a black pill incel but not hate woman? Like I feel like a lot of what you said is true about me yet I don't hate woman. I've always had a problem with the idea of marriage because how could I ever morally own a person? I've always thought that my problem is that I'm obese, I have severe plaque psoriasis, boring and opinionated. Oh yeah also tiny package, like what fun is that? So like why would someone want to be with a boring unattractive person? How can I hate something or someone who isn't in anyway part of the problem?
Anyone from the future? If yes, what year? Tell me about the future!
CW: EDs  I have sort of formed an idea that another great comparison for incel communities online is pro-ana and pro-mia communities online - it's the same system of a community built on feeding off each others' self loathing to encourage your own. Though for sure, I don't recall seeing ANY externally directed violent sentiments in those communities, there's almost this weird parallel of obsession with womens' bodies, only for pro-anamia online it's about obsessing wanting to BE those bodies, rather than possess them.
Also, this video is so goood. Well produced and interesting
these people just want to suckle on the tit to get that euphoric joy that is the milk of human kindness
You are sooooooo Good!
you made a really good video here
I went on a 3 week binge an their subreddit and I HAVE SO MANY WORDS NATALIE. This was great and accurate
Was waiting for this one. Love ya babe 💕
i'm a hanging chad incel, sorry couldn't help it
sometimes this biological essentialism kicks in like a horse through my front teeth and while it lasts i believe there is something fundamentally wrong with me. i know who makes money off of this feeling yet i still feel tempted to give their products a shot. sometimes i feel like giving up my life would mean everyone else's would be better and as i nail my hands in my own personal cross i'm intellectually aware that i don't make sense but emotionally i just want the prettiest spiritual lies to guide me to a path where my suffering means something divine. my brain and heart are at a constant divide, or at least that's the language i have to concisely explain why the shame i was taught as a child can't be cleaned by knowledge. sometimes i wish for lobotomy or strong medication at least. i want someone to validate the fear that my shame is mine to carry because of the faults i was born with, that way i can surgically connect my emotions to reason and never have cognitive dissonance again.  i couldn't fall asleep last night because i kept on catastrophizing different theories of why i'm unlovable so i wrote this. this video's timing is uncanny. i'm not gonna give into this evil belief that i'm inherently unlovable but i'd love to get rid of the impulse.
I think this video should definately sit near the top of the list if someone wants to understand incels or really any group that uses hate as their common ground. The main strength I'd say is how youve applied your personal experiences with the academic knowledge to paint a pretty clear picture of the issue. One thing I would say is missing, maybe you disagree is that some of the information that incels use is valid. Hypergamy is represented in data, so is racial bias as well as many other issues. My main point here is for every 9 pieces of ludicrous information that a hate group uses, theres 1 piece of valid information, talking about an issue that gets ignored because of its association with the hate group. This valid information could act as the hook that drags more rational people into the group and have a toxic effect on their mind as you noted happening to yourself. Other than that A+.
I went down the list of black pill catastrophizing and It completely described me until it got sexual. I take my unfuckability in stride lol.   Am I always unhappy? Pretty much, Sure. Could that unhappiness be alleviated with a partner that understands? Absolutely. Is it the world's fault that this happened? No. Is it her fault for not existing or heaven forbid not knowing that I exist because I'm a gargantuan basement dwelling cretinous troll with pure ocd that can't form a cogent thought with my mouth? Umm double no.   Are all of those things my fault? No. Lots of them are though. Some of them can't be changed. Not by me in any case. It doesn't mean they weren't voluntary.  That's the problem with this incel stuff.   It's stupid. It blames everyone else in the world. The whole idea that its involuntary. You are volunteering your time into whatever endeavours you want in life. If you're involuntarily celibate it means that you are volunteering your time to a movement that is never going to give you the thing that you want. Take a little time to learn why you're worth spending time with. Stop thinking like a simplistic wannabe. Start thinking like a complex wonderful totally already am. Maybe it will get you laid. Maybe it won't. But Im sure you'll be happier then whatever this simplistic wannabe shit is getting you.  Or maybe I'm full of shit. I'm sounding like Jordan Peterson. Ok incels go mess your rooms up just to make me feel better about myself.   Love your stuff Miss Points. My first sub feed video. I took a picture to commemorate.
Ugh.. My god this is so cringy... Well at least I now know I am a "chad" according to red-pill. lmfao.
*standing ovation*
Oh my god, I have been waiting for this...!  Incel cringe is best cringe.
Wait... what? Natalie, you were *NEVER* 'that guy' you silly goose xP That's good advice, tho. Give all the incels and MGTOWs the Theryn Meyer transformation. Maybe some day you'll change the world enough to alleviate my compulsion to arm myself, just in case I have to put one of these freaks out of their misery. (Only half joking, there. I do attract awkward men who turn psycho for some reason. I've had to get truly vicious with a few of them  :( )  Maybe it's bc I'm so proud of my Bucky Barnes fandom?  :&
As a bisexual girl I can confirm that the Becky is more attractive than the Stacy
Without any acritude. I think that what many of these "pillers" need 1st and foremost is a therapist, some are too deep in the rabbit hole. Someone who teaches them to exercise self esteem and, more importantly, empathy; to help them to be comfortable with themselves and also be less judmental and more understanding with others, in order to be able to face society and take the best they can get from it.     They are a self-reinforcing hate group, no doubts. Probably even with outsiders posing as incels too trying to make them even more miserable and spiteful. But they're the 1st victims of said hate :/
The misery feedback loop in incel forums almost reminds me of pro-ED parts of the internet, because it's very clearly a bunch of people who are hurting and sick, but there isn't a sense of support or camaraderie you'd find in places where depressed people seek each other out so much as this twisted sense of competition to reach the end goal of just rotting away until eventually succumbing to a lonely, early death.
Wow this was just excellent. Awesome job and bless our Water Mom
I tried everything!!! I'm 20.. but I've tried it al!
i will say, although i know the "everyone is beautiful" type of compliment is unsatisfying when all you really want is validation, taking on that mindset and looking for beautiful or good qualities in people you ordinarily wouldn't find attractive is a great way to become much more comfortable with your own appearance and a lot less self-critical. i used to think i was unattractive, now i think i am beautiful, and that's how i did it.  great video as always mommy. love you <3
Fuck dat Imma need a list of all blackcells. Im tellin everybody Mama. This is We dont do this.
I really love you Nat, but I was pretty disappointed by this video. These guys are misogynists plain and simple, I think societal attitudes towards women is the actual problem and to sympathize with them as you claimed not to do, is reinforcing that. Also, you've lived as a woman for how long? Let's not try to pretend that dealing with letchy crap from guys from like age 13 isn't as comparably shit as getting ignored. You don't see hoards of women saying this insane bollocks about men
ContraPoints is a genuinely nice person. Knowing her other videos, I expected a merciless deconstruction of the Incel mindset but what I got was a truly humane analysis - in the funny and yet intellectually satisfying manner we all love.  And of course: Gorgeous costumes!
love the censorship in the intro section. feels like youre laying out the vulgarity of their worldview
I really feel bad for these people...
yas omg perfection
I want that first minute and a half as a standalone video lmao
I would be an incel, if I hadn't gotten laid that one time, and if I didn't channel all my sexual frustration into Stalin worshipping and capitalism-hating.  I'm not kidding either. What I believe about the world is pretty close to incelism qualitatively, although much more moderate. TL;DR incels tend make absolute, immutable laws out of things that are really just strong tendencies at best.  According to my theory, both the Manosphere and feminism - in their most reasonable iterations - are complaining about the same exact problem: Paleo-Fascism.  Paleo-fascim is simply the cultural baggage of our agrarian history.  For most of human agrarian history, the most efficient way to survive as a society was to force men into the army to wage war for land and force women to pump out babies. As humans usually do, we mythologized things we need to do in order to survive, and decided to pretend they were a God-given natural order, that the highest thing a man could aspire to was to be a warrior-king with a harem(Chad), and that a woman could only please Providence by devoting her life to being a baby-dispenser for a rich man, never working so that she doesn't endanger her unborn children.(Stacy) This ideology is dehumanizing and degrading to men and women both, obviously, but it promoted survival. And social mores always filter down from the social top to the Proles below.  Incelism is just this same ideology dressed in modern clothes.  The reason incelism exists is because not nearly as much has been done to dismantle and discredit ideas of paleo-fascit masculinity as has been done to discredit paleo-fascist femininity. Paleo-fascist maculinity is still significantly sought after by many women, if women's porn is anything to go on at least...cough50shadesCough a lot of women really are kinda hypergamous, for socioeconomic status especially.  So these poor bastards(incels), who are also probably from towns where all the factories have moved to China, look at everyone around them: ethnic minorities, women, LGBTQI etc. suddenly getting talked about and supported for their suffering, while nobody talks about them, and their very real suffering, caused by failure to be Chads/Warrior-kings, and also probably not having enough money to go to college.  So in stead of questioning paleo-fascist masculinity, they embrace it even harder. From there they can take two roads:   1)blame themselves/fate, and become hateful, rotting incels.  2)blame marginalized groups for their failure to achieve warrior-king status. They just need SOMEONE to pin the blame on, so they naturally get attracted to anti-semites, who have a long tradition of blaming everying on the Jews. Why not this also, if it's a way to get recruits?  Or they end up like me, using youtube and historical materialist analysis to blame ancient history and capitalism for my underfuckedness.
Small wrists make your forearms look bigger though
You are fantastic. Keep it up, please.
You may have created the most quotable vid of all time. An impressive feat, indeed.   Sending love! <3
I'm celibate but voluntary. I am way above women. There are only very few women I truly respect. Intellectually and aestetically superior in every single way. I have no reason to hang out with them. Not even for procreation. Already donated my superior sperm to sperm banks in my past. Btw, women are overrated. Most of them eat and live unhealthy and are therefore degenerate anyway. Sorry women, that's the way it is!  The only way they can date me is nu being respectful and bringing me a sort of offer
Maybe the answer to the Incel and more generally the hate problems that the internet is revealing is in part a national healthcare system that includes access to mental health services.
I have a deep and abiding sympathy for the incels, because I look at them and think “there but for the grace of God go I” I would be a textbook incel myself- hell, I still can’t get a date- it’s just a miracle that left politics and feminism got to me in time to keep my excruciating self loathing from metastasizing into disgusting misogyny. It’s a hard thing to look at yourself in the mirror and think that you’re garbage and that no one will ever love you, but knowing that the alternative to holding all this self loathing is to end up like these poor hateful bastards is comfort enough to get me through the day
Thanks for ruining now and forever all Mendelssohn for me, you beautiful genius.
This video is so full of vulnerability, honesty, empathy, humor, and intelligence. I’m so grateful I found your channel❤️❤️❤️❤️❤️❤️
Kinda sad that the whole manosphere is obsessed with women and misogynist
My goddess uploaded <3 <3 <3 ily
Love your vids ❤️❤️❤️
Not gonna lie, I got teared up when that trans-chick said that she would repress.
ARE TRYING TO LINK A GODDAMN WIKIHOW ARTICLE?
Can't get corndog in U.K. What do?
You know, that ending was supposed to be sexual but I found it meditative. lol.
What about negatively viewing Human promiscuity in general? Premarital/pre-engagement sex is wrong, amoral, and degenerate to oneself and society.  You act like 'divorce rape,' gold diggers, and the Duluth model don't exist. When one demographic can completely destroy another's without evidence or their legally binding word that's not equality or oppression, that's supremacy. I'm pretty sure this is exactly what To Kill a Mockingbird was all about. If the 'justice' system is stacked against blacks it's not a leap to apply that to other demographics like asians, hispanics, or men. http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-2565377/Shocking-video-girlfriend-throwing-car-released-grand-jury-declines-indict-judge-boyfriend-accused-assault.html That went to a grand jury before the case was thrown out.  Caricatures are an accurate way to assess and express reality. Take one of my favorite books for example, The Great Gatsby. Tom and Daisy are absolutely caricatures of not only wealth but the Chad/Stacy dynamic; Let alone hypergamy and the Human desire for leisure. It's the same thing with Big Red, Trigglypuff, Tabby, and Fritz.  If I had to self-identify within the red pill worldview (ew) I'd probably be a MGTOW chadlite. I'm also a left leaning Sufi that shares many of your worldviews. Love ya mommy. <3
Small side note, the part about tinder was hilarious, and really interesting to see someone whose viewed it from “both sides” so to speak
This video made me realise something: There's a chiastic structure to the idea that "fact don't care about your feelings". The completed thought is that "things are factual only if they feel bad".
Holy fuck are you even human? You're so beautiful ❤ great video Natalie
this video is legitimately masterful
Why are a large swath of the top comments people waxing sympathetic about how we *need* to find them girlfriends and _sex_ to help them out? How about we dismantle this disgusting worldview and teach people that romantic relationships and sex aren't the end all be all of life and your mouth as a man or masculine person? Dropping random women on these boys who literally hate them and don't see them as people just shows you don't care about their personhood or autonomy as women. You're not entitled to sex, you're not entitled to a romantic partner AND you don't have to be a disgusting creep about it.
Well I live in a in land state, im dooomed! Jk
Idk what the everloving fuck I just listened to at the end, but great video
You are so pretty and I love the weird lights. It makes the video a bit more lighthearted even thought the topic is very heavy... and sad. I do sympathize with some of those incels. A lot of them really are depressed.
(7:55) Me reacting to when a reactionary tells me something that they think is  *s* *u* *b* *v* *e* *r* *s* *i* *z* *e*
Anyone else think the Hebrides Overture bears a resemblance to the "from a great height" part of Paranoid Android?
Amazing video! Informative , entertaining and inspiring application of make-up!
It feels like inceldom is inextricably tied to patriarchy and toxic masculinity. Not all men can conform to the strict definition of masculinity set forth by society and thus fall into self loathing that eventually explodes into death and misery for others.  I think one solution is to expand the definition of masculinity as a means to be more inclusive, have people understand that being a man is not measured by how many women you sleep with but by other healthier benchmarks.
0:03 - 1:26 This guided meditation tape I bought got really weird at the end.
Still waiting for a legitimate ContrASMR channel
💓💕💙💜I love your channel🌼🌷💐💐💮💮🌹🌺🌻💗💖
So I'd be a "Becky". Not sure if good/bad. Not sure I care.
You're a pretty funny guy.
So basically they're femininazi's- but just for men and revolving around sex.
The culture of /lgbt/ is really brutal. I've delayed my transition countless times because of fear of never passing and becoming a hon. I wish I could just shut my brain off and say fuck it lol
This is going to be interesting.
I really like your video, contrapoints!
feeling d e e p l y u n c o m f o r t a b l e
Great video as always Natalie!  at 13:58 As bad as this sounds, I understand the feelings of 1-5. As a teen boy even normal conversations with girls were incredbily hard, and the idea of actually getting the courage to ask a girl out just seemed out of the question. It just felt like the odds were stacked against me. That said, I quickly understood that this had chip I had on my shoulder had NOTHING to do with "feminism" or a woman's right to choose her own romantic partners. I realized I had a right to be frustrated at the SITUATION of being alone and being single (which I later would find out would be a combination of anxiety/OCD and depression), but I had NO RIGHT to be angry at women for who they find or don't find to be attractive.  I've been down the road of isolation and loneliness, but I didn't let my self-pity lead me down a road of hatred for literally half of the god damn human population. That doesn't even just make me a decent person. It just makes me a person capable of looking at women as more than fucking objects or animals.   As for this idea that most girls just want a "Chad", I would argue that most girls are much less shallow than guys when it comes to picking the attributes they find desirable in person they're attracted to. I think, in reality, what makes a "Chad", has more to do with confidence than bone structure. (Plus, treating women like humans being also helps.) Of course natural looks play a role, but I think woman are much more forgiving of physical attributes than guys are.
God, this "sexual Marxism" crap is totally Comic Book Guy from the Simpsons. "Inspired by the most logical race in the galaxy, the Vulcans, breeding will be permitted once every seven years. For many of you, this will be much less breeding. For me, much, much more."
34:32 What?  No Buttseps?
quickly becoming one of my favorite channels yet. So surprised I didn't find you earlier when getting into the damp, sticky world of YouTube politics         EDIT: oh god  I knew kids like this in middle school. They didn't use any of that terminology but I definitely hung out with kids who were building up to this stuff in middle school with all the toxic masculinity, self hatred, and blaming women for their problems.
>JBP is a sexist old man  Yeah, well- that's like, your opinion, bucko.
Goddammit. Now she's ruining rainstorms for me. Is nothing sacred anymore?
Wow, this is so well made. Subbed!
What happens if I‘m 🅱️ O N E L E S S?
It's crazy how you're so good at eroticizing anything and everything, but now I feel like I'll end up with the weirdest fetishes before I even hit 25, and it will probably affect my relationships as well becasue I won't be able to convey to my partners the inherent sensuality of the sea in any better way than you did. Thanks for nothing Contra. But seriously that was an amazing video, thanks for everyhting.
I think it's a bit like the 'depressed community' on Tumblr. It's a lot of people making jokes about their mental health issues, sharing them, and building a community around it. They look down at self care and tips about getting better.   It keeps people stuck, they don't want to get better, and they can't unless they change. It's just an echobox of negativity designed to keep people down and give them a community at the same time.
Its my twentyfifth birthday and what gift could be greater than natalie Analysing incels. Well. There are plenty of things that would be lovely to see in the world. But I’m   terrible and hungry for contrapointz content. And corndogs.
I'm angry at myself for knowing all the terms and shit in this vid.
the philosophytube dramatic readings are so buttery
Attila the Hon
Ah, glory... But that is a damn good question, why do I cut myself?
FUCK YEA
33:03 "This kind of hatred just needs a spark to turn to violence"  :/ I'm conflicted about this viewpoint. I would need more context to get a full picture however.  But I would make the following observations.  A rant can often function as making clear the worse possible interpretation that lives in your head, and making it visible to the rest of your mind to be made more nuanced and disproved. In and off itself I don't see people expressing these viewpoints as dangerous.  Surely these viewpoints are better visible to the people who hold them and to a degree to the rest of society. By saying something you may see that it is absurd and unjustified - and in my experience there is nothing that makes you *less* critical of someone that just going overboard with a perhaps unjustified criticism.  The question of course is in what context this discussion takes place. Is within a setting that places such rather negative viewpoints in context and mitigates them? Or is it within a circle of hate that stifles rational thought.  But I'm *really really* suspicious of viewpoints that say "anger is bad, criticism is wrong, you must control you anger etc etc" - because it doesn't necessarily make people less angry it just prevents them to fully working out precisely what they are angry about whether it is reasonable. And I really think this is part of a more general narrative that says "all (male?) anger is unjustified and dangerous".
That clip of Roosh going "I like to cook but i'm still masculine I'm not a woman its science i'm a scientist" is too fucking much. Imagine being that insecure about your masculinity.
I think that the many characteristics of the description of self loathing and hopelessness attributed to incels and the TTTTs is really applicable to a lot of people experiencing self doubt and low confidence. I know for me, as someone who has struggled with constantly kneecapping myself to prevent me from actually trying things that I really care about to avoid failure, there were a few statement that kind of just got me. And suddenly, I became overcome by smpathy for so many of these people. I really sincerely hope these people can learn to see themselves in a better light, because I think maybe that would help them also see others in a better light. Aka not murder people .
Its pretty cool seeing how much more beautiful Natalie gets with every video. Nice vid
You are obviously a tranny. You don't think like a woman. Believe it or not, but you retain the male brain and the male humor.
“Bread scientist” dead  Also the voice at like 16:06 sounds exactly like Dr. Borous from Fallout: New Vegas
i bet you admire Shauns Skull.. man i wish he'd post more often. but the quality is worth it
Me: *sees video in feed* Ugh! I hate incels and I love Contra!! This will brighten up my whole day!!  Video: *starts*  Me: no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no
31:50 State mandated girlfriends?  They’re literally taking ideas from old Christina-Chan videos...
I loved this. Subscribed.
I think that the "call everyone pretty" mentality isn't as bad as you make it out to be, necessarily. I think, sometimes, everyone needs to hear a compliment, even if it's not particularly genuine. This is something that most parents do, as an example, telling their children "Oh, you're so handsome/pretty"... The compliment, such as it is, is more about the effort being put in than the actual results, and that can be good because continual application of effort leads to improvement.  Now, with that said, there are also times where constructive criticism is called for.  My opinion, though, is that typically, neither random compliments nor constructive criticism should be given by random internet strangers, unless you're specifically looking and asking for such. I think it's a bit creepy when an audience tells someone how pretty they are in the comments of a video, just like I find it inappropriate when they give unsolicited advice (and this is regardless of whether the statements are true or false, and also applies more generally - I don't like how the comments of any woman's Youtube section invariably includes comments on how sexy she is, or what have you).  Now maybe I'm wrong here. You've got both more expertise and more experience than I do in this subject. But yeah, I think commenting on a stranger's appearance, positively or negatively, is something you just don't do.
This... really hit home for me in a lot of ways. I can't stand incels, but I won't act like I've had my share of healthy relationships either (just the one, and it wasn't healthy for either of us). I see these forums and it makes me realise how easy I could of turned into one of these guys, but also how, in a way and barring the rampant misogyny and commodification of women, I resemble them.
i’m living for every aspect of this
thunderstrorms are one of my fetishes, so now imma have to go off and jack it, so thanks for that. this isn't a joke btw. if storm from the X-Men was real, i would go out of my fucking mind
rice cells and curry cells?, curry and rice are  staple where I'm  from, and that was hilarious
This would be hilarious if it wasn't literally killing people and based in horrific misogyny and racism.
"Hi Stacey, its Tracy"  I get it!
You are a god damn artist Natalie, I'm off to find some salt water.
Came here for the inherent eroticism of the sea
Hello Ms. Points I have a patent redesigned of the heterosexual male that I’m trying to get investors on board with and I currently hit a snug when my other product “divorce attorney shovel” was linked to a series of grisly murders along the coast of Maine for maybe obvious reasons. I would have never assumed the contingency that a distraught husband would go on a six day killing spree after murdering his wife with the shovel and chopping up his neighbors dog and eating the remains. You see the intention of the shovel was to bury the hatchet but it seemed instead unknowingly that it could actually be used a weapon of sorts. With this endeavor of being sued by the state of Maine and the families involved it has left me broke and penniless with scrapping by each day on food scraps and bummed cigarette. Though with a small investment of five thousand U.S. dollars I have a real good feeling we can build the better heterosexual male, I can’t go much into details because “they” could be listening but it involves a lot of soy and gene splicing. Please respond ASAP! God bless!
I love this. This is your best video.
We have been blessed!
Better than Blair White..... I mean equally talented......
To me The Shape of Water should 100% disprove Incel-dom, but they wouldn't admit that (as vid shows)
Y'know... maybe I should spend less time in communities that constantly joke about depression and suicide. It seems very common in some LGBT spaces. Thanks for this video, really put some stuff in perspective.
"Chads of color"
Sorry to bother you and your personal life, but did I see you and Philosophy Tube at a screening of Sorry to Bother you a few weeks ago at the Charles Theater. If so what did you think of the film?
Excellent David Attenborough 👌
What about the chad mouthfeel?  Jokes aside, this is a fantastic video as usual, wp Natalie :)
skulls skulls skulls some are good some are bad skulls skulls skulls ask your mom ask your dad
Great video, very informative. As someone who ended up being an old virgin the existence of this whole thing blows my mind.
Some Dagon levels of love for the sea going on here
[THIS MUST BE THE WORK OF AN ENEMY FEMALE]
I'm used to "Hon" being a term to make fun of pyramid scheme people. Also you look pretty good.
broke: taking the red pill and becoming a conservative incel woke: TAKING THE RED PILL AND BECOMING A COMMUNIST ☭☭☭☭ⒶⒶⒶⒶ⚑⚑⚑⚑
Thoroughly disappointed you didn't use the Limp Bizkit version of behind blue eyes
Moar SkullSMR plz Natalie
This was a great vid! I wish you would have touched a bit more on the racist bits of the incel community, but overall i loved this. it was funny and engaging.
In a group of a thousand people there has to be someone who is the worst.  Life is tough for everyone but for that worst of the worst it must really suck.  Incels and Trans are humans and deserve our support.  Focusing on the very top and very bottom is a strange thing for people and society.  Our minds are designed to focus on problems yet wisdom is not just seeing a problem but knowing if and how you should address it.
bravo
OMG, not five minutes in, and I think I'm in love with Olly. Dayumn!
There is technically no such thing! Most of these guys just have issues picking up on when a woman is into them!
This video wouldn't have been complete without Olly's talents
i found your channel yesterday and im inlove
Damn You! Now I do want a corndog...
Do they know sleeping with a lot of women doesn't guarantee the sex will be good?
Natalie, I think at 28m you should bring up confirmation bias. That may be the core of digital self harm
Hearing Olly swear is a new thing, I love it.
Please don’t rope in MRAs with the redpill dickwads like mgtows and incels.
Great video. A lot of videos I see on Youtube about incels just mock them and laugh it off as cringe material. You do a good job recognizing the problem in all its seriousness. So happy we have you in this godforsaken platform.
this is an AMAZING video. i've never understood the wild incel until now and as a fellow trans person (though i'm transmasc, not transfem)--thank you for relating your experiences. i understand how weird and difficult it can be to put that sort of thing out there, especially knowing that the responses may not be, uh... positive
YELLING thnx for making me never hear "behind blue eyes" in the same context ever again
Me, starting this video: OH BOY THIS IS GONNA BE FUN!!!!!!!! Me, finishing this video: TAKE ME MOTHER.
are you telling me to fuck the ocean?!
In a world where marriage (as it was originally defined) is legally prohibited (by no fault divorce) and polygamous communism is mandatory, incels have legitimate grievances with society and the unqualified people selfishly voting it to be.
It's all uglier than I ever imagined. Fuck. Goddamn, humanity is screwed.
Btw I am cis and I think you're a gorgeous goddess! Also why do your videos never seem long enough? I want moooore!
This is probably my favorite ContraPoints video yet! They keep getting more and more interesting, in-depth, and entertaining.
lmfao
I can’t   I can’t  I can’t stop laughing! Thanks for this, Contra! Great Video!
it's all about the skulls people!!!
What was the name of the background song during the 4th base part of the video?
Damn this is good.
this was a great video, but honestly i feel like mommy/daddy jokes are sort of in bad taste in 2018. consider how some of your viewers who have been made victims of incest might feel, when you make jokes centered around the implication of a sexual relationship btwn a parent and a child
As someone, who doesn't even get matches in Tinder, that part about the "radio silence" really hits home (and it's something I don't hear about that often). It is kinda hard, since people around me keep saying "but there's nothing wrong with you" when talking about my looks, the disconnection between those words and the "reality" of Tinder can really hurt. I totally get how some men can get discouraged or spiral straight into apathy through these experiences. Obviously it doesn't justify the words or violent actions of incels, but I can see where it comes from.
I love your videos, Contra. Always a click the instant it shows up in my notifications. I’ve never seeked out abusive comments about myself like yourself, BUT I did develop an unhealthy addiction to twitter. I eventually deleted my twitter and haven’t missed it (we... I miss Krang and some of the funny accounts like Dril). BUT even before that, I developed an unhealthy ‘self-harm’ relationship with certain sexist subreddits where I would browse for hours about how the “SJWs” are destroying everything. At first, I was there to laugh at dumb feminists, but then I started to become obsessed with the idea that feminism was destroying society and making everything worse. Eventually I noticed how these sites affected my mental health, so I left around Gamergate. When I came back a few weeks later I realized the people on these websites were just as bad if not worse than the “SJWs”. Things have gotten more calm and peaceful since I’ve left these websites behind and interacted with people instead of carefully selected and upvoted posts describing the worse (real or fake) aspects of these people.  I’m 90% sure most incels would be 10x happier if they just omitted incel from their vocabulary and stopped going to these websites.
Wait wait wait....you're telling me that phrenology somehow has come back?!
this made me want to fuck the sea and I guess I need to be ok with that now ¯\_(ツ)_/¯
Video about the overlap between that and Nazis?
I can't get 50% Off out of my head when I watch this and it's absolutely fantastic.
You're a gorgeous goddess
Fuck this is so true I go on 4chan to read awful things about women all the time and like body types and shit and it makes me feel so ugly but I feel like they're the only people who wouldn't sugarcoat and lie but I know they're so toxic :O
On 14:40 I went on reddit and searched for u/differencesscience I didn't find him I cannot get it out of my head now  also 81% upvoted? wtf?
This is more insightful than all 27 videos Mumkey Jones has made about Elliot Rodger combined.
i wonder if this brand of self hatred is the same that gay conservatives have
This video is impressive, like your work uually is.Well-researched andnice production value, with perfect amount of jokes and empathy. As someone who could have been an incel if I'd been a few years younger or read a few fewer books or a little bit more on the internet, this touched me on an emotional level - and it is transformative for me, even if I'm not deep in the rabbithole, to hear your advice. Rather sad, seeing as you ar eyounger than me and dealing with a lot more stuff, but, well, people say to just take things from where we are (trying to translate danish expression  And about all the dyshoria - I showed your last video (The West - at least it's the last I've seen, youtube might ahve done some fuckery) to a friend who sort of needed to see it, he's going odwn a sad path. He would definitely have commented with some transphobic shittery if he had not seen you as a ciswoman (one thing I dreaded would take away from the point), which he did not - Micea B takes this sort of thing as a good thing,  complimenting his hard work, so I'm hoping you take this the same way  *it's a recurring theme with him, and one that I often have long discussion with him about. I pride myself that I've at least gotten him to accept that trans people exist - it took a couple of years, but still
I've been waiting my entire life for you to make this video, Natalie.
Did you take inspiration from the graphic design / look of Punch-Drunk Love for the intertitles? They remind me of that!  Love the video! Even though it seems a depressing subject matter, I've been in a bad way recently and your great videos help.
Natalie the lesbians will always stan you. How could we not 😍
Lol at the 33 Incels who disliked this vid 🤣
YOU ARE SO GOOD AT THIS SHIT ! take a fucking bow. You are the only youtuber. forever and foremost
Thank you Skull-people.
**watches AHS Cult once**
I'm not an incel but I really understand what it is to believe no one will ever love you, or to seek hurtful things. When I stopped worrying too much about it I ended up more happy (and as a side effect I did have a more happy sexual life). I love you ContraPoints, thanks for this, really.
Would be interesting to find out is what common factors play a role in the lives of those who identify as incels (besides the obvious) for example issues inherited from parent's, social exclusion ect..
"CLEAN YOUR ROOM, BUCKO." 💚
They have some of the coolest jargon I've heard in a while. Rope Fuel is catchy.
Contra stop calling me out like that. The see and the rain sheesh I never thought you could be so filthy.
6:35 skull asmr
Essentially: these men get bitchy when women treat them like they treat women :)
"What is with you people and skulls?"  -Harris Bomberguy
I just wanted to say, this video is fantastic--AND I adore your lighting color choices.
all femoids, please like this comment.
Dear Esther, Imagine how a woman feels.
*casually starts looking up videos of rainstorms on Youtube*
At least these pricks care enough about my pussy, to be an asshole about my dick.  -Contrapoints, 2018
Brilliant, as always.
I have been waiting for this !!!
Roosh V - Bread Scientist is one of the saddest displays of toxic masculinity I ever witnessed.  Roosh. Roosh, honey. It's okay. Men have been baking bread throughout human history. Baker is a traditionally male profession. You're masculinity is still intact, don't worry.
Olly is such a Chad tbh
This makes me scared of the internet
"Manosphere exists because rock and roll is dead!" Best - Argument - Ever
Roosh V was destined to become a pickup artist, just like his predecessors, Rooshes 1 to 4.
The vast majority of women vote to rape men's wallets by force through the centralized superstate to meet their sexual and economic needs when their needs can be met voluntarily by  1 legalizing marriage 2 swiping right. But who wants to do that when you can vote yourself free dick? Don't be surprised when you reap the worldwind...
I found the mocking of reading books really funny. The very conversation that led me getting to know, and eventually entering a relationship, was one born out of a shared love for books
Incels remind me of the Divine Comedy, specifically Satan himself. He is trapped in a cold pit at the bottom of hell, his legs bound in ice with heaven visible right above. He hates heaven so much that he keeps flapping his wings so he can go up and destroy it, but this creates cold winds that keep the ice stronger around him. He's in a prison of his own hatred, and part of him knows it, but he cannot help himself and never ever will
My gods. Each video is just amazing in everyway. Love it. 👏👏👏
There *are and were women who use 4ch though
I was an incel guy. I was right wing.   Found a gf and started reading Marx. 🤔
My dumb takeaway: their are no Latin incels
I desperately trying to laugh because you are so damn funny but I am crying inside.
Possibly one of your best videos yet
I never realised that going on /LGBT/ was hurting me this much til this video you are right thank you for helping me realize that I put off my transition for years because of a website...
I hate how much I resonate with the obviously jokey talk about rainstorms and the sea. It is powerful and beautiful and has a physical pull that feels wonderful.
contrapoints asmr when?
it seems like these incell sites are really just echochambers of pain. disconnect from the interwebs go out side get some fresh air talk to people if u can't get some help in that department but for the love of god and your own well being unplug from the manosphere
came here from majority report.
Ollie's narration is as silky smooth as that imagined vagina.
this is irrelevant, but my sister watches these videos too but she's miles away, son thanks ContraPoints for connecting me and my sister.
I will never see the ocean the same way.
Make oceans sexy again.
Your set design is fuckin second to NONE
You should absolutely get facial bone surgery thing if it makes you more comfortable but I thought you should know that my girlfriend and I freak out about your bone structure and how good it is every time we watch your videos so if you don’t get it don’t worry; you’ve got at least two lesbians that are into your bone structure
This is high art
Grateful as hell Contra never even entertained mentioning the entry-level notion a lot of people bring up when first hearing of incels - that simply providing them with sex via prostitution would solve their problems. As she rightfully brought up, these people have serious psychological issues with regards to their views on women, and as cases keep popping up to confirm, they are not being ironic with their outright verbally violent condemnation of women. The concept of exposing anyone vulnerably to these guys whilst they still cling to this culture is a recipe for disaster, and shows a sickening disregard to sex workers and women as people too.
I have a bone structure of a chad, but have small wrists, I'm tall, I have read "The Game" but didn't get much out of it . I'm not red pilled or black pilled. What label would the incels label me as? A Muggle, a Hybrid, a Borg?
I had to laugh because you nailed incels and what they do so so well. 😂❤
this was my first video i watched of yours. I'm so in and gotta go watch all your stuff. Lindsay Ellis sent me.
I love you.
OH shit is that Olly reading erotica?! The YouTube God’s have shined their light upon this day. Praise Be 🙏🙏🙏🙏
WHAT IS IT WITH YOU PEOPLE AND SKULLS
I just got back from a week at the ocean, and now I just want to get back in the car and drive right back.....
Someone needs to introduce incels to the concept of yaoi hands
That Roosh V clip.  O o o f That insecurity.
Wow What a great video. It was good, like really really good. Thank you for that you are amazing :)
God I wanna fuck a cloud right now
That Tinder thing is anecdotal at best... I've had a similar "gender swap" (for lack of less callous language) moment and I'm getting just as little attention as a woman as I -  *checks app*  *99+ likes*  ...  ...OH.
I'm twenty-four years old man and have never had sex. I have no sympathy for anyone who treats that as a reason to dehumanize women, hate other men, or engage in self-harm. Elliot Rodgers was a year younger than I am today when he killed those people.  If you're sexually frustrated then just masturbate like a normal person. A year ago the woman I love became my girlfriend but we haven't had sex yet,  the question of if we do have sex depends on if she reaches a point where she is comfortable with that level of intimacy.
I'm so glad people started talking about digital self harm because it made me pull away from what I was doing (without realising it was an outlet for my internal negativity towards myself). Not gonna lie, it's still difficult to avoid slipping back into it since it's not a site I can block or confined to one place but... recognising it and accepting that you're doing it is a big step to recovering from those episodes or pulling out the extra internalised stuff you pick up there.
"What the fuck is it with you people and skulls!" Contrapoints
God, please tell me MRAs aren't going to ruin bread for me.
I have to go to work and I want to watch this 😭
Omg Yes!!!!
I am a real fan of this video. I really appreciate the philosophical depth used when engaging this topic, and you show a heartening respect for accuracy that I find enlightening (and rare when considering this topic).   On the topic of "why do people engage in digital self-harm". I might put forward a few more positive framings:  i. To confront the most extreme version of an argument ("He who knows only his own side of the case, knows little of that.") ii. To confront the most extreme insults society has to throw at them, and see that they do nothing. iii. To understand what drives the people who hate them and see them as absurd. iv. So that people don't *lie to them*.  Why do this together with people like yourself? To make clear that it is a game, so that it's not real.  I think this might be seen as broadly analogous to exposure therapy, learning self defense, seeking out the strongest argument against your position.  I would prefer this as the minds attempt to "seek out what it doesn't understand" rather than an "attempt to self harm". Although... I see that you might want to equip people with the cognitive and logical tools to engage in this sort of activity "safely". I'm not sure I'm a fan of viewpoints of human behavior that say "people are just irrational".  Additionally, I would note that there are perhaps less toxic environments to learn these places. Even if one wants to deal with the most toxic form of an argument perhaps one wants to *start* somewhere nicer. E.g. People don't fight against black belts when they start learning self defense.
Snacking on grapefruit and pizza then finding this video is the best part of my day.
"I hope you enjoy your life as an ultra masculine baker!" hahahahha That was great! Also, LOVED the video, Contra. I didn't even know about the term "incel" to begin with. You keep making us smarter :)
I'm never looking at the ocean the same way again.
S T R A I G H T T O G U L A G
You're beautiful and I Love you
How did you even survive researching for this video without losing your mind?
I absolutely relate to the vocab of "hon' and 'AGP' infecting my vocab about myself and other trans women. Holy shit.
I lean to the right, but I really appreciate the honest journalism and sensitivity to the subject matter.   I disagree with you a lot, but I love your content.   P.S. JP is the man.
Thank you for this thoughtful video.
"At least these pricks care enough about my pussy to be an asshole about my dick!" - That was GOLD (gold)!
Oh dear God. What a sublime video. I can still feel the shivers minutes after the ending.
I don’t think incels just want sex. If they just wanted sex they could just go see a local sex worker for a couple hundred dollars. They want women to want them, to find the attractive, to accept them. They want romantic companionship. Which is what every human wants. While incels arent entitled to companionship or sex what we can do is help them develop their social skills so they can become a more likable person so they have better chances at finding a companion and so they can actually find a hobby and make friends.
don't you like the idea of transwomen becoming gynocompatible
Another sparkling gem of a video! Hits so many marks with unerring artistry. But also for some reason made me feel guilty about not practicing piano for the last 40 years.
this is SO funny SO good oh my god. I am in love.
This video gave me a sea-fetish.
The following statement is both completely ironic and totally literal: I fap to this.
Weirdest exchange I’ve ever had was when some dude and I literally went from talking about my college major and what kind of books I like to, “So do you like to him sex with condoms or no?” Quite a fucking key change.  I’m no longer on the any dating platform.
Innate eroticism of the sea. Genuine lol.
You're videos have gotten so good lately. You make the perfect balance of comedy, perspective, and information and I'm so glad you devote your time to this. We need this now that YouTube is only comprised of dudes patting themselves on the back, people whispering about getting massages, and teeth whitening products.
Do you mean to tell me that there are some men whose girlfriends have an ass in their cock?
ContraPoints Incels Oh shit
This was well researched, & entertaining. Thanks. 👏
On point as usual :) I must say I respect how you can stay so objective look at things from the other side. Keep up the good fight!
These sad sacks literally do have a cartoon view of existence. LITERALLY. "Stacy" looks like a cartoon. I find "Becky" more ideal, physically and mentally. And Stacy looks like my view of a Becky and Becky looks more like Daisy Ridley. Or is that "Mary Sue"? ARRRRGGG even dipping a toe into this sewage sub-culture causes one to take major SAN point damage.
I was just waiting for this <3
Oh My God... that episode of My Life Teenage Robot with the Lonely Hearts Gang was about these guys wasn't it?
I wonder if there are gay incells I'm actually curious
I have the biggest crush on Olly so the intro was especially jarring
As a trans woman who briefly flirted with inceldom an egg about ten years ago (thankfully, it wasn't anywhere near as toxic back then), a lot of this video rang very true for me (it didn't help that, back then, I assumed my feelings of dysphoria and longing to be a woman were, in some incredibly convoluted way, *because* I could't get laid).  The parallels, especially in terms of self-loathing and self-harm, are undeniable.  In my case, I eventually did get laid (though not until I was 25), fall in love, and even get engaged- but of course that didn't "fix" me, and I wound up eventually needing to transition anyway (fortunately, my then-fiancee-now-wife wound up liking me better as a girl).   Nowadays, I'm a happily married, post-transition trans lesbian living her life- but I will admit, I'm still prone to some of the digital self-harm.  Old habits die hard, alas.
i'm thinking the incels are sexier than the TFL' ers, tough call I know, but at least they've got an edgyness going on.
You look really good and wouldn't have guessed you were trans unless you had made it a point in the video. And your makeup is really well done!
Goddamnit now I want a ContraPoints ASMR skulltapping vid
Divine
"Any society that negates the role of the father in the voluntarily marriage contract from decent civilization buliding men and replaces it with a involuntary centralized welfare state will not remain civilized for long."
Lets us go to the sea and become one with the lobsters!
I'm trans myself so I know what it's like to distrust compliments but please believe me when I say this: Natalie, you're so gorgeous that it literally distracts me from your content sometimes. And attraction is not all about looks! Yeah your eyes are magical and your lips look like an art piece (what is it? genetics? make-up skills? gift from a forest nymph? all of the above???) but also - you're smart, and funny, and your present yourself and your thought is such a perfect way... it all contributes. Get FFS if you feel like it will benefit you (dysphoria's a bitch and no amount of self-love will fix that) but please never forget that you're already beautiful! (also het men might have a problem with dick but bi men like me exist so...)
are the Incels aquainted with Mrs. Palmer and her five daughters
Are you a siren trying to get us into the sea to devour us?
Thanks Doc 17:03
Philosophy Tube is my new safeword
Oh dear god... You did it! I love you so much, so happy you did a video on this.
wow i love you. more great work!
That sparkling piece of clothing is amazing <3
Your brows looked more manly to me the longer you talked about them. I honestly think they're fine other people literally don't see them like you do. Also you should totally do an entire episode about online dating!
This was an incredibly well done video. Wow
Yass!  my girl Uploaded . Love your videos contrapoint they always make my day !!😊😊
The costumes are fire, also I never knew Incels were a real thing and I wonder how those who save their virginity for marriage fit into the mix?
Someone watch my vagina weight lifting videos
I watched Creep Show.. and it's almost like you use the exact lighting from that lol
Hi mom I missed you
I really hope this video helps at least one person to see how toxic their mindset is. I kinda use to be like this but found happiness in other means (music, science and cooking) however when I got my first partner I felt genuine love and I realised how stupid my point of view was. Overall great video you tranny fag 👍🏻
I mustn't introduce any of these reprobates to my friend Daniel, the most effeminate thing on the planet who's in a committed relationship with a very attractive lady. I imagine the shock would kill them. On second thoughts probably a good idea then
Watching this while bathing in purple dyed water, this is going to be interesting.
I love you!
Damn I'm wasting my 20's not riding the alpha cock carousel.
Black Pills have best personality.
Its pretty obvious Stacy and Chad are pretty basic b!tches and deserve each other!  Becky and the skinny nerdy guys ftw ;)
Jesus Fucking Christ how are your videos so good
celibates are like the forgotten term much like how transvesite is in the LGBTQ community
Great stuff....as always
So the MULE was an incel?
That hypergamy thing is weird. Men also want to fuck women hotter than them. I do, you do, we all do. And these incels DEFINITELY do, which is part of their problem.
Why do you never ask me to do voice over work for you?! **cries in corner**  Also, Incels are one of the internets many wiki cults.
Brilliant!
Great. Now I'm gonna have to jack of to the ocean.
😍😍😍 u make my day!!! How dare u say things that are actually true 😆
The darkest period of my life was during my freshman year of college (2013-2014). I isolated myself in my dorm, rarely talked to anyone and contemplated hanging myself every day.   Maybe its different for women but even in my loneliest, darkest moments i couldn't allow myself to become bitter and hateful towards people. I had to fix my issues before i could feel comfortable around anyone.
6:36 Did you just try to sneak ASMR into your political commentary? You snide wench!
This video is fantastic also you look SOOOO GOOOOOOOOD
just knowing about that /TTTT/ thing makes me afraid of transition.
I planned to fuk my boy (first gay experience) when i go to beach this year. I just guess the only thing to penetrate me will be the sea waves.
ok but can we talk about how dang nice that lighting is
i love your videos so much <333 love from greece!
Love the vid as always Nat, the way incel and /lgbt/ were dealt with were so clear and concise I dont think anyone needs to make a video again. But I feel as though its weird that you didn't even mention /r9k/ the progenitors of the incel gene. And I have to dmit that I used to take part in that vicious circle of digital self harm and indulging in the hate mongering against women even though Ive had girlfriends before. I'm now 21 and stable and have a girflriend of 9 months but /r9k/ remains a place of that swirling world of confused teens battling with sexuality, both hetero and queer.  Again great video, even if this comment is lost in the voracious erotic sea of positive comments 😍
I'm sad this probably won't reach the people it should reach. easily the BEST take on incels. I love you, Natalie. you're one of the most beautiful youtubers.
I think I need more wine after the 1st few minutes....got any popcorn? im out.
I didn't catch the problematic thing plz help I want to win
These videos just keep getting better and better. That was a riveting half-hour.
Fuck yes, my Phrenology lessons are going to finally pay off.
Like.... I just cannot believe anyone takes this as a real outlook on life everytime I see that 4chan chad art. Like... really.... ya'll base your life and the way you live it around meme posts?  for real?  for really?
That part with lurking on threads insulting you was way too real for me, a clinically obese woman lurking on fat-hate and thinspiration forums.
Why do incels talk with double-plus not good words? Don't they know what new speak does to the mind?
A"Les Paul" won’t cut it, that’s what you’re saying!
I just want to come out in defense of "virgin-Chad" memes because almost every one I've seen has been ironic. Even in the original one the Chad is a ridiculous looking character and not a conventionally attractive man (as well as having absurd traits like never hearing a song before)
wat do if ur name means 'son of sea'  but you are not the son or the daughter... or maybe the son and daughter of that beautiful expanse of lapping waves?
Me before MTF transition: no one will love me, I will die alone! Me after transition: alone at home at last! I wish I could live alone like 90-99 percent of the time.
I realy love Your videos!
BREAD SCIENTIST.  Oh, I do love you.
This. Was. Fucking. BRILLIANT!
I’m down to smell some contra panties
>that ending wtf I have a rainstorm fetish now
That beard looks so fake.
This shit seems almost unreal.  Like American Psycho Patrick Bateman.
I bet the asian contingent of the incel community fear  Koro which is a cultural bound sickness involves the spurious belief that certain body parts, such as the penis in men and the vulva in women, are retracting into the body. The origin of the word, “koro,” is connected to the Malaysian term for the retracting of a turtle’s head. Upon complete retraction of the body part in question, death is the feared consequence. The first descriptions of koro-like symptoms (with some similarity to panic disorder symptomatology) can be found in ancient Chinese medical records that are over two thousand years old. Although koro is often thought to be a disorder associated with Asian populations, cases in other parts of the world have been regularly reported. Moreover, koro can occur as individualized cases or full-blown epidemics. Certain indigenous treatment practices can be dangerous, and several means of treating the possible conditions underlying koro are discussed.
Love the video!! It's interesting hearing about catastrophizing in reference to incels. I learned that I did this all the time in rehabilitation for chronic pain. Where it overlaps (in my experience) is that, whatever the root cause (physical pain, rejection, etc.) people who are prone to catastrophizing seem to always reach that same conclusion: "I might as well just lie down and rot". I'm better now than I was, but catastrophizing, as you said, puts you in a really dark fucking place and learning to identify when I was doing it was what got me out and living my life in spite of my problems.  tl;dr CATASTROPHIZING BAD, DONT DO
Amazing as always.  Love the Mendelssohn and eroticization of nature.  Excited for whatever else you have in store for us <3
Thankyou mommy ❤️❤️❤️
OMG this is the most twisted concept I've ever seen.
I'll always get a jolt of excitement any time I see a new ContraPoints video. Keep up the great work!
The voice acting in this is really good.
Great video! Esp loved the tact of trying to understand and sympathize with incels on an emotional level, rather than the easier route of dismissing or hating on them (which I'm totally guilty of). 5+ years ago, when I was keeping up with the manosphere, I reached a similar conclusion, that most were just depressed and frustrated and probably needed healthier support systems than they were getting in those blogs/forums (aside: it is true that the more time you even just research this stuff it becomes part of your thinking/vocabulary).
Wow, that text at the beginning made me genuinely uncomfortable and upset. :(
12:10 - So being widely ridiculed by society at large to the point that he retreated to his literal mom's basement for awhile got Roosh to double the size of his beard and take up baking? This gives me hope that if we keep going we'll eventually see him retreat to some remote Italian villa, where he'll be sporting a huge, _Duck Dynasty_ grade beard and furiously rolling out pizza dough while ranting "This'll show those damn *Femoids! **_I AM THE PINNACLE OF MANHOOD!_* GOD I got FLOUR in my beard _AGAIN!_ FUCK!"
ok but my gfs skins is always freezing, not warm lmao
12:11 Holy shit he actually has to insist that baking is masculine because it's science and men like science. How insecure can one man be?
Jesus Christ. This is so damned insightful and well done. How do you do this? I rarely see such an expertly constructed union of stark endictment, constructive criticism and meaningful empathy for a would-be enemy.  There is a song lyric that often comes to mind when I see people excusing scary behaviours: "give the benefit of doubt, just to ease your mind". I think that's behind a lot of that centrist hand-wringing. I don't think you did that here at all.
Why do you have to call out the $5 backback??
YOU'RE SUCH A BABE OMG
Your video finally put a lot of the pieces of the incel puzzle together for me, including some of the pieces I didn't even know were missing. Great work, Natalie. Looks like you can take the woman out of the academy but you can't take the academy out of the woman.
The video was great, also I'm using Night Light on my laptop and when the sun set and the screen turned orangey-reddish it was like watching the sunset with you. It was erotic af, in a slightly comedic postmodern (Night Light is really hyperreal) way, I should probably not tell my boyfriend, let's keep this our little secret. Hope I didn't sound creepy! Love, Lizzie P.S. You're amazing and this video actually helped me with my dysphoric self loathing! You're the best! P.P.S. Just kidding about not telling my boyfriend, he thinks you're awesome too!
Holy shit, is this why MRAs and Anti-feminists use skulls and skull related imagery in their videos so often?
I relate to this video. As a tRaNs gUy, I'm constantly thinking about my height, and my slim wrists, and how not muscular I am. Although most trans people dont display the type of toxicity that incels do, obsessing about how feminine our body is is something many trans guys can relate to
reach  out not 2 hour
In my journey to stop all forms of self-harm I've engaged in and truly become a person I deem worthy of respect, love, affection, and all that mushy stuff, it always seems like there's a way to harm myself that I haven't yet addressed or even considered. Looking back, it's jarring to see how much damage I've caused to myself in such subtle, unnoticeable ways that's so plain to see now. I'm still struggling, but I can at least appreciate that it was never nearly as bad as it could have been, and that I've come a long way. I want to thank you Natalie for being one of the many voices in my life compelling me to keep climbing upwards.
Maybe they have a point with the skull shape thing. It's not that people who consider themselves 'incels' have problems that many people deal with such as depression or social anxiety. And they have a hard time meeting and interacting with other people. And they refuse to accept that maybe they aren't having sex because of that. But instead project anger on to other people because of it. No, it's the skull thing. Certainly the skull thing.
I need those 4Chan Links!!!! Spysquat putting on the tin-foil head, armed with magic anti-troll missles....
Holy shit, this was so good, specially the in-depth look at the logic of self hatred. Please never stop making videos, fuuuuuuck
You're a goddess, and I fucking love you.
Video on Kink Shaming when?
A largely semi-desert country, Chad is rich in gold and uranium and stands to benefit from its recently-acquired status as an oil-exporting state. 1883-93 - Sudanese adventurer Rabih al-Zubayr conquers the kingdoms of Ouadai, Baguirmi and Kanem-Bornu, situated in what is now Chad.  1900 - France defeats al-Zubayr's army, completing its conquest in 1913. Chad becomes a colony.  1960 - Chad becomes independent with a southern Christian, Francois - later Ngarta - Tombalbaye, as president.  1963 - The banning of political parties triggers violent opposition in the Muslim north, led by the Chadian National Liberation Front, or Frolinat; three years later this revolt develops into a fully-fledged guerrilla war.  1973 - French troops help put down a revolt in the Muslim north.  1977 - Libya annexes the northern Chadian Aouzou strip, and sends in troops in 1980 to support President Goukouni Oueddei.  1990 - Coup leader Hissene Habre toppled by former ally, Idriss Deby.  2011 - Presidential election, boycotted by opposition. President Idriss Deby is declared winner.  2016 - Ex-ruler Hissene Habre is convicted of crimes against humanity and sentenced to life in prison at a landmark trial in Senegal
Would you like to talk about Paris Hilton and put on some lipstick today?
What you're describing at 23:32 and onward sounds a lot like what Peter Coffin describes as a Validation Gang. Would this be a fair assessment?
I actually jumped when you tossed your phone aside.
Goddammit, this was good.  What stuck with me after the whole thing was over, is that society (myself included) responds to Redpill and Incel culture with emotion ranging from vanilla ridicule to outright vehement disgust, which only helps to feed the delusions that got them there in the first place and does nothing but push them further into their holes.  I guess a little more empathy is in order.  Oh, that and your stupid incel vocabulary lesson has permanently tainted an acronym that is integral to my job.  To prove my point, an excerpt from the EPA's website: "The guide details some of the problems identified with leak detection and repair (LDAR) programs. It focuses on Method 21 requirements, and describes the practices that can be used to increase the effectiveness of an LDAR program."
I'm so happy you exist. This might just be the best youtube channel right now.
Is it really necessary to apologise when you're quoting the reactionaries? Don't you trust your audience or the general public to have the sufficient intellect to understand the context in which you're using the offensive language. The video is already over 30 minutes long, as much as I appreciate your content, you need not bloat it with platitudes.  Regards,  "Chadpreet"
I watch alot of garbage on the internet, your garbage is by FAR the best. Your videos never cease to entertain, educate, and............. stuff. What I'm trying to say is, will you be my mother?
I'm still giggling at Roosh V desperately trying to convince his audience that baking bread still conforms to their myopic view of masculinity. I think he needs to grow his beard another inch and maybe pose on a Harley Davidson while he says it, that will balance it fully.
Can you put ASMR in the pre-video trigger warning THANKS!!!
I think I stopped breathing for a moment before she said that she is still attracted to women...  Natalie you are too pretty and smart don't leave us without your love! We need you too senpai!
alot of people are sadists
Thank you for this.
My whole YouTube experience has become about waiting for your next video.   You are the mummy we never knew we needed.
Never and forever are the scariest words.
At about 25.00 I really lost track! Maybe a cultural thing.. anyway go contra go!
Alright, got my beer ready, lets dive in and do this
Contrapoints is a fucking pioneer of some postmodern metaphysical empirical socio-psycho-culturo-philosophical science A kind of Freud/Marx of a world memed into a virtual collective insanity
Wow the wrist guy goes beyond the level of small handed pianist complaining I was at 3 years ago.
Incels just need to download grindr, smh
So uh.... is there a word for an Ocean fetish?
I👏love👏your👏voice👏ily👏
A technical production request: can you please try to equalize volume levels a little better in the future? I keep having to turn the volume down whenever Olly is speaking and then back up again when you're speaking because the volume levels between you are too different.
Hurray
**concern**
catastrophizing is worthy of its own episode
Me: *before becoming a patron* who would be gullible enough to care about their name in the credits lol Me: *after becoming a patron* omg there's me!!!!!
I love you, momma ContraPoints.
Sea porn. "Fin"  We've all heard comedy puns, and I've even happened across one or two effective tragedy puns.  But an arousal climax pun?  That's a new one...
Is Contra a Transcell O.o
I really hope this video manages to save a few incels from this community.
Loved the vid, between this and the Reply All podcast ep on incels, I feel I've got a good enough idea on the subject without having to delve into that dark abyss. 22:22 have you considered doing more ASMR? I'd be down for that. Also, 15:42 minor pet peeve but I would have liked the meme to be up on the screen for like 1-2 seconds longer. I'm a slow reader. Just lookin out. (don't hurt me.)
Please come to brasil
Nattily and Ollie. You two are beautiful.
these people are sadists
I’ve gotten laid multiple times with passion most of these incels are a bunch of weirdos if they were remotely relaxed and not so fucking crazy about the role of women in society could get laid every once in a while. What woman wants to be with a asshole that sees them as property? No self respecting woman would
Contra video. Good day.
So, not even done watching yet but I had no idea that incels were so... icky. There's just so much wrong with this. I wanna hurl. It's just so sad... and icky!
I'm now 90% certain the best litmus test for assholes is just ask them if they believe in the 80/20 rule because every shitty person has a version of it different circumstances but the same name every time
te amo
You are so likable
THE  DARK SALTY ABYSS!!! I should go swimming.
Like I already want to slap these nerds. As a trans woman I have been harassed because of the way I look and the way I identify and I do not cry like a little baby and expect other white men even though I'm not a man to feel bad for me. I fight eurocentric beauty standards I have confidence in myself and think I am flawless. That is how you get laid not bone structure confidence boo boo you got to have some confidence. If you can't love yourself how in the hell you going to love anybody else. Great video, Natalie.
Thank you momma Contra for these blessings.  P. S. I still Stan you and the Golden One.
How the hell do you manage to make every video better than the last one?!
I go to the gym maybe 3 times a week and think I still have pretty frail forearms and wrists. My girlfriend has never commented on this or poked fun about it. It's not that big of a deal, guys.
As a trans masc person, I actually do feel dysphoria about my wrists because they're really narrow (even for a womans) and make me feel like a girl. Which I hate because dysphoria.  Honestly we need to stop treating sex/dating as the ultimate goal of human happiness. I'm too aroace for that shit.  I saw the "this is why I'm not transitioning. Thanks for showing me that it's hopeless" and fucking hell that's a shit position to be in. I had a deeply repelled reaction to that because...I can't imagine living the rest of my life as the wrong gender. I just couldn't do it
First of all- your videos are amazing and i look foreward to each and every one of them. Secondly, the toxic self-harming aspect of incels that you've outlined here also reminds me of some of the leftie/social justice spaces on tumblr. Not all of them obvs - but the purity culture and 'every bad thing is intentional' sections of have some distinct similarities. I've moved away from the worst of those boards now, but when I was younger I think I did use those boards in that way. It was also fuelled by a need to make sense of the very real bigotry that I witnessed and experienced growing up- but using the 'if it hurts its true' definately led me to lose alot of independant thought and generally be a bit (read: a lot) of a twat. So thankyou for your thoughtfull and well researched video once again- I look foreward to seeing what you tackle from here.
This was one of the best videos you've ever done!
Phrenology ASMR fgdhjsjkdasjdfhfddjg
Probably my favourite of your videos! When I saw this popping up I was really hoping you would do a great sociological dive into the "religion" of Incels and give a Trans Female point of view. You absolutely nailed it!
Contra the whole story of tttt forum really hit home. I have the same thing with eating disorders and the cult of extremely skinny modelesque bodies. I love to indulge in this forum were skinny models are scrutinized for gaining weight and venerate very emanciated bodies. It really triggered my restrictive eating and I’m so scared to stop because of the whole self harm thing you said. It really hits close to home. Thank you for helping me put my situation in words.
When I was a teenager, I was consistently frustrated by my lack of success with women. I was the prototypical "good guy"; always angry about how women went for the "bad boys" and unable to understand why they weren't interested in someone who would treat them with respect. It wasn't until my mid 20's that I had an epiphany and realized how messed up my world view had been. I realized that there had actually been tons of women my age interested in a relationship with me, I had just been ignoring them because they weren't the women I was interested in. I realized that these women were interested because I was actually being myself around them, telling jokes, sharing stories, hanging out together, etc, and this meant they actually had an idea of who I was. I realized that the 'respect' and 'chivalry' with which I approached the women I wanted to date was actually creating a front and preventing them from getting to know who I was. I mean, it seems like common sense now but, at the time, I legitimately did not understand that women wanted to be with someone they could connect with and understand and that, by hiding behind this facade, I was my own worst enemy.
This video made me oceansexual. You sure love corn dogs, eh?  Anyway great video. Glad to hear you still like non-men. I was worried you were becoming some sort of basic carnivorous straight white girl.  "Fuckable skulls" made me laugh. I think these kinds of aggressively negative forums are exploiting a basic quirk of human psychology.  We're programmed to fixate on frightening things. This makes sense in survival scenarios, but can become a feedback loop with abstract fears like "what if no one ever loves me?" It's not a threat that can be easily eliminated, once your attention is drawn.  In fact, the more you look at these forums, the more tangible the threat becomes.
Incels and 4Chan TTT can be summed up as,  "Misery loves company and hates hope."          It reminds me how year ago when I had suicidal ideation.  I went to suicidal ideation forms and it made my Suicidal ideation worse.  Eventaully I went into therapy and I started to get better.  I knew I could not visit those forms again because I know it would be like rubbing salt on the wound for those people.  And I don't wish those people bad, in fact I wish him the best them.  I hope they find a way to make things better.
god why do I enjoy these video so much
It makes sense for a death cult to obsess over skulls.
Also, /lgbt/ has gotten way better over time, though its still kinda toxic a lot of the time
Why how could Olly's voice got me so hot and bothered saying such monstrous things.
PLEASE POST MORE... I LOVE YOU SO MUCH !
"my voice sounds like a ridiculous muppet falsetto hybrid of mickey mouse and whinnie the poo"  I've watched and loved your content for years so let me be honest. It kind of does. At the beginning of this video, it irritated me and I thought about commenting about it, but ultimately decided against it because it seemed pointlessly antagonistic. But since you brought it up first, I thought I might as well go ahead and say it then. I miss your normal, calm voice. But I suppose it wouldn't match your new look, so you gotta do it.
incels and gamers should constitutionally have all their rights revoked tbh  Edit: I'm kidding?  Self-proclaimed incels though...
I've never heard context being given for *why* they might keep on with this worldview, since it's such an obvious cycle of horrible results but hearing it put like this was very enlightening.  Still keeping 'em about 5,000 miles away at all times, but still enlightening.
Philosophy tube's voice is way too hot to read all these horrible things out loud
That was brilliant. Thank you!
1:26 eh, I've done it...it's okay i guess
What is it with these people and skulls!?
A few years ago I joined an incel message board, so long ago I didn't recognise almost all of this slang, and the whole place was kept relatively civil by a team of admins who, in retrospect, were clearly banning the worst of the scene. But after a while I stopped going back and I couldn't figure out why, and after the terrorist incidents I thought about it more but I think you hit the nail on the head. It already had the feeling of a deathcult, and by expressing my opinion online that I had a fair chance of losing my virginity in the future some people told me I was an idiot. It only takes a certain critical mass of people thinking like that, and one admin not to be replaced, and the whole institution could spiral out of control.
there's that interview with the woman who started incel  (reply all podcast #120 invcel) talking about how it all went to shit.  it was fascinating to hear her talking about it in terms of the 'student government problem': where people who get help and love (herself included) are no longer on the forum, leaving only the people stuck to exist as the old guard, guarding nothing but self loathing.  GG
If any of these incels were born lgbt their ideology wouldn't apply. All their thoughts are based on gender stereotype and the words of others who experienced the worst of the straight dating scene. These are the people who are attracted to these groups so they wallow in confirmation bias.
I'm very sorry for this comment in advance. I loved the video. Don't be mad.  I hoped for a better ending, a more constructive advice to incels and people in similar predicaments. This video was *incredibly* insightful throughout, it's the first time I've seen anything about incels that told me anything I didn't know already and had any truly interesting insights. You seemed compassionate throughout. I expected a happier ending, but you seemed to essentially just end it on a joke.  Again, very sorry. I think this was your best video to date. I don't want to criticize it.
Omfg the Incel ASMR
To the general public, I look like a man in a dress and I'm married, so, yeah.  Actually, Terrance Stamp in Priscilla Queen Of The Desert changed my life. The character made me realize that it's not about looks. It's about dignity.  Also, Becky's hot, yo. Sorry for objecting a drawing and all, but I'm into her.  Also, I love that velvety Olly voice.
It's official. This is my favourite YouTube channel. I really mean that.
Let's talk about bone structure: your cheekbones are killing me. I am dying. Your cheekbones are murdering me, you murderer. They are simply divine. Also your make-up is superb. Dare I say, on point?
Awesome video! By the end there I was fully ready to embrace Dagon and return home to the ancient abyssal cities beneath our mother sea.
Incels are the kinda people,who'd still feel unhappy even after they find someone.
Dude your Tinder commentary is spot on, dating apps and stuff are shit in general, just in different ways for men and women. Also FUCKING EXPANDED FACIAL PLANES
Aaaaaah another video 😁😁😁
There is also 'Personal Block List' an extension that works in Chrome and Chrome based browsers like Vivaldi. It can be a good accompaniment to messing with hosts in a few cases because it removes the entries from google searches so you dont even get a reminder of what you are cutting off.
Girl, if youtube communism existed. You'd be the chairman of Youtube with the effort you put in your videos. These are store in a future culture museum level high quality content.
Best time to spend for my lunch break
Best time to spend for my lunch break
Bravo. You only get better with the pass of time. I love you and your channel.
"Thank you Skull-People"
This is an excellent video! And Olly, you killed it with those dramatic readings.
So this is the first video of yours I've seen and I didn't guess you were trans until you brought it up. It makes me wonder about how I pass, because 2 years ago I stayed on her but stopped trying to present as female after an unsuccessful attempt to get sober and a stay at a rehab facility, and I've never gotten as many intrusive questions about my gender as I do now.
Contrapoints gave me a water fetish, how the hell am I going to shower now?!
I learned today how truly depressing the internet truly can be.  But is the internet not merely what is happening in the heads of it’s users? This thought worries me much more..  Amazing production as usual, Contra. Top notch, truly.
god i hope this pussy gets 300000 miles until i literally cant shit properly ever again
TIL that thing is called masochistic epistemology. I think I heard about that concept before somewhere as Occam's Taser - "The most painful explanation is probably true."
Oh dear jesus. This was a really good one. I mean, putting aside the more discursive, less-style driven direction (I needed something like this) and the inclusion of Olly who is just brilliant, that tangent about /lgbt/ and incel forums hit hard. Really, *really* hard. I started freaking out at my desk thinking how big a bullet I dodged just by getting out of chan spaces being my main social spaces. If I hadn't found less toxic places to exist as a trans person when I was still in late egg-cracking mode, I don't think I'd be around any more.   Your conclusion that the single best thing for these people is to cut these self-perpetuating hate-and-self-hate spaces out of your lives is so desperately needed.
Mumkey Jones has to see this
I'm just dead inside, don't care about anything. Hope people are happy with their choices, I just want to die alone in my corner without any people bothering me with delusions and trying rationalize their pain.
"Imagine how..." what the fuck? So gross.
The Tracy joke
OK, so how many incels are now going to commit suicide by walking into the sea?
You gotta do one on MGTOW.
These keep getting better. Thanks for being really self aware in your humor, and finding ways of being hilarious despite the heavy content. Great stuff.
Amazing video. I never thought I would feel simpathy for incels, but there you go.
Just great as always.   The bar for your videos is now nailed to the ceiling.
Bread scientist 😂
I'm eagerly awaiting your ASMR skull tapping video
Goddamn masterpiece.
These guys really need to stop engaging in self loathing and misery, stop comparing themselves to others and creating all these ridiculous categories and get their shit together. I have way too many relatives who engage in that kind of behavior and refuse to change when given sound advice. They aren’t incels but they have other things going on that really impede on their lives. It’s almost like they enjoy complaining about how bad they have it. I really don’t understand it.
A little (science based) take on gender that has me considering more seriously a socialist attitude to male violence and prison's ect... - this actually made me tear up a bit, if I'm being honest. Basically should isolation be a benchmark for "pain"?  No need to reply. I would say no need to read - but it has taken me a long long time to form this opinion in this way (this is like my 4th or 5th revision of it this week)  It was actually a reply (tangentially) to a Steve Shives video regarding whether we are alone in the universe. Olly from Philosophy Tube will be touching on this as well (I think?) concerning addressing problems with behaviourism by using phenomenological approaches.  Cheers :)   Is anybody out there....?  I am wondering if the question “why don’t people question things?” could be related to the question “do men cope with social isolation better than women?” But on that last question, should I instead be asking “do men and women who have experienced the same level of social isolation behave in the same way afterwards?”     I could explain quite a lot about that - well not explain, but detail a lot of research (like hundreds of pages). Even though I am not a behaviourist (if that really means anything - but that approach hasn't helped LGBT people). And the later question “do men and women who have experienced the same level of social isolation behave in the same way afterwards?” is basically using a behaviourist approach. I am finding more of a basis for looking at behaviour.     You see. (looking at research published in science daily for example). It has been shown that isolation causes the increased expression of a gene that results in a build up of a neurotrasmitter (it has a complex name) in the hypothalamus and the amygdala. Tests have shown that blocking this neurotransmitter reduces feelings of fear, aggression and PTSD effects caused by isolation. While administering this neurtransmitter to those haven't experienced isolation will start to behave as if they have.     I could explain a lot about the biology. But, just to keep it short and to the point. Basically the hypothamalus has receptors for Vasopressin (which literally means “expanding blood vessels” - i.e. it increases blood pressure) and Serotonin (popularly thought to be a contributor to feelings of well-being and happiness... though it's complicated as too much of it can basically turn you into tub girl). With Vasopressin triggering a response from the hypothalamus associated with aggression, while serotonin's effect on the hypthalamus is associated with feelings of calmness.     It is difficult to isolate the cause in terms of nature vs nurture. But males do seem to have higher levels of Vasopressin than pre-menopausal women. Serotonin levels are higher in women versus men (while men synthesize serotonin faster than women). Also lower levels of Vasopressin seem correlated with higher levels of oxytocin (the "Love Hormone"). There do seem to be sexually dimorphic nuclei in the brain that differentiate males from females and transgender people from cisgender people.     Indeed. While physical stress on mice seems to produce the same effect in males and females. It is females who seem more stressed than males by social osilation. As females produce more of the stress hormone corticosterone by the adrenal glands. In humans "corticosterone" has only minor effects. "Cortisol" - also produced by the adrenal glands - is the main hormone produced under stress in humans: papers on the effects of social hierarchy such as the famous "white hall paper" demonstrated how low status was associated with higher levels of cortisol stress hormone release (over-turning the conventional widsom of the time actually). It is known that women are reported as suffering twice as much as males when it comes to PTSD and anxiety (while men seem to suffer twice as much from mania and explosive anger disorders).     So it would seem - based on conventional wisdom - done and dusted: males cope with social isolation better than females.     But not so fast. Cortisol also acts as a steriod hormone in the body - in a similar way to androgens such as the "male" hormone testosterone. Indeed there is a condition called "cushing's syndrome" – resulting from chronically elevated Cortisol - that causes male type body fat distribution and hair growth in females - i.e. cushing's syndrome is less noticeable in males (as it basically makes males look like the actor Danny Devito).     So it seems "stress" has a "masculinizaing" effect on the female body - which is why I am thinking about behaviour in terms of males and females rather than how males and females "cope" per say. I mean a lot of the effects of stress on males (that turn them into Danny Devito look-a-likes) could just be past off as the effects of testosterone. When in fact Cortisol reduces estrogen and testosterone levels - i.e. chronic levels of cortisol lead to problems with fertility.     So I repeat my original question: I am wondering if the question “why don’t people question things?” could be related to the question “do men cope with social isolation better than women?” But on that last question, should I instead be asking “do men and women who have experienced the same level of social isolation behave in the same way afterwards?”     Anyway. Thanks if you read all that. I went on way longer than I intended. Sorry.
Masterful as usual,
You wasted your time pursuing philosophy. Sociology seems to be your calling!
bisexual transgender you are
ayo natalie   i fr had no idea you were trans until you said it  you look good bitch
Divine city, she says...
I would like to collect signatures for a petition to request Contrapoints do Contrapoints-flavored ASMR videos because I want to fall asleep while feeling really smart as I hear a skull being tapped gently by perfect nails like holy shit those nails i'm jealous
You're not bad looking for a trans person... Even though I'm gay so soz but i wouldn't smash.
Jesus. Some of those 4chan screenshots were... *incredibly* sad. Great video, Natalie.
honestly /tttt/ isn't all bad, it's pretty much the only trans online community that i feel comfortable in, and it helped me to self-med there's a lot of negativity but it isn't all skull-chan and AGP posting
Ollie and Zoe killed it. Great video.
No but ill think of a big ole bear smothering my face with his juicy fat ass  But seriously shouldn't they be focused on killing this chad thundercock instead of angrily killing women
Half of the anime geeks at my former highschool are incels
I love the Chopin waltzes. Just as much as i love this video
I am a Hermit, not an incel! I am Sex, the creator of Man.
So the Incel community is basically the Monroebot from Futurama, robbing the world of all art borne of sexual frustration, chanelling it instead into destructive whining?
*The firing squad of dicks*   Yes.
this was the last place i expected the hebrides overture to pop up.  not complaining tho
Ugly people get laid all the time, incels just aim too high and demand supermodels.
It was predictable
im eating day old Jack in the Box tacos while watching this.
No "death-drive" reference, 9.98/10.
ＢＲΞΛＤ░ＳＣＩΣＮＣΣ
Thank you for blessing us all.  I really hope some incels see this and know there are other options. Your insights about digital self harm are much more valuable than you could ever know.
12:10 c'mon roosh i see the bread maker in the background there. don't call yourself a baker if you aren't even mixing or kneading your own dough.
brilliant~
I absolutely love your outfit today. It’s so beautiful! Great video as always! 💜
do not snip leave the dick
This video is so sensual and yet so accurate and productive, not to mention honest, that it blew me away like the wind whipping over the dark mother's roil. Girl overboard. What a fun ride through some of my worst feelings and darkest thoughts!
I wonder if any neurolinguists are studying how the stuff you mentioned at 28:22 works. Because it's an interesting and scary thing that is very visible. I started watching some of Joe Rogan's podcasts because some of the guests were funny people i liked but he entertains some ideas and prejudices that drove me away, but the things they talk about lingered in my mind enough for me to do what you did, try and purge that shit from my mindspace because it really puts a tint on your glasses. I had to manually tell youtube's algorythm to stop recommending Joe Rogan's podcasts for WEEEEKs. This sort of insidiousness makes me not want to research this kind of stuff even though it piques my curiosity. At least the antropological aspect of it.  Great vid and channel =)
Meh, its good. Still, I have to say, Aydin Paladin kinda comes to same conclusions but while looking at data and making logical and clean conclusions. This here sounds like an.... accurate opinion, if you will. But again, its interesting and somewhat entertaining to watch.
Anyone ever notice how she's often using food in her videos? It just dawned on me.
Dang it! It's raining where I live.
incel not unreal ducking auto correct lol
god i love you
"Ooh ooh ooh do incels ! Do incels! "
I'm LIVING for your eyebrows!!
Contrapoints doth exhibit an exquisite browridge, well beseeming her fine wit. Your choice obviously if you want to shave some bone, but you do wear your skeleton excellently. "Chads with fuckable skulls" had me laughing so hard I nearly invaginated.
Among other things, I'm furious that they want to take the 80/20 from actual theories and science
I know I know I shouldn't put them down but OMG it's so hard to be sympathetic and I'm a divorced man after 10 years of marriage it's been a year and I haven't slept with anyone but I'll never ever be an unreal no I decided to brush my self of and renter the dating world. seriously guys grow up and grow a pair.... fucking unveils sigh
I liked to call myself an involuntary celibate  as a self deprecating joke back in the day and imagine my surprise when it exploded on the internet.
genderqueer mother show me the forbidden discourse
Ahhh to breathe once again! It's not that I've come to need Contra to know what to think, it's that I've come to NEEEED Contra, to give me life !!! Lmfao
So this started out pretty funny but then got serious pretty fucking quick.
Great now I can't stop staring at my beautifully feminine man wrists. Thanks a lot, Natalie, ugh.
Oh man, I fucking love the humor in these videos.
Have young men always thought like this, or are they just using the internet now?
....I'm really not sure why you're bothering with face sculpting, you're like, the definition of 'delicate features'. God I wish I had your nose
No incels are involuntarily celibate, nobody is involuntarily celibate, celibacy is the state of voluntarily not having sex/getting married, it's not something that can be involuntarily done.
that lighting is art
I'm heading off to college to get my degree in ultra masculine bread science brb
I didn't notice the problematic thing at 18:45, can someone please explain it to me? Thanks! :)
How do you constantly expose yourself to some of the worst parts of Internet cultures and have faith enough in humanity to give us such great information?
Omg, this is so good. You have turned this into an Art form. Should you ever come to Germany, pls let me buy you a bottle of Champagne (or a few beers) for this. Cheers from Berlin!!
the pseudoscience of phrenology has made a comeback
your brain is like a laser  laser brain
good god incells are pathetic
DAMNIT NATALIE MEN ARE GARBAGE WHYYYYYYYYY
Great work as always.
Isn't the advice: "You can always go into the sea" a little bit too sui fueled? Anyway awsome video!
30:22 Natalie, thank you for tackling this subject with such elegance and finesse. You really have a knack for framing information in ways that can get through to the people who need to hear it the most.   Btw, you look stunning as always!!  💖
Definitely your best video yet. Holy shit.
roosh took the bread pill
amazing
That "I need to justify my love of cooking by relating it to science" speech is the most pathetic thing I've seen on the internet all year. And I follow @Real Donald Trump on Twitter!
Well, on the one hand, sorry you waded through the extremely depressing rancid meat carnival that is Incel culture to make a video for us to enjoy. On the other hand, I did. I mean, you definitely exposed some shit that I was fine with keeping buried but I suppose an uncomfortable truth is better than a velvety fiction, so I guess it had to be said at some point.Very good video, thanks!
Wow! This actually made me realize just how much digital self-harming is going on on the internet nowadays, it made me realize just how much I've engaged in digital self-harm! Now, excuse me while I go back and watch this video 15 more times to fully absorb the majesty that is a new Contrapoints video!
Had a slightly ominous realization that I spent a good chunk of my adolescence with something resembling blackpill philosophy without even being on an incel forum. But now my outlook is more optimistic and who knows, perhaps my fortunes will improve in turn.
chicks like guys with skinny wrists
33:50 YEA GIRL MAKE THAT THUNDER ASS CLAP
How would we know these things without Contrapoints? How else would we make sense of our world?
I'm a new fan but I just wanted to say I really enjoy your content.
Fuck... I'm in love.
I love this video like every single other you've made, Nat. I just wish to add a point: there are tons of non-hegemonic ("ugly" if you will) looking women who get mostly radio silence in dating apps.
19:10 is that character what you guys call "turfs"? jesus...
It took a while to get out of this mindset as a young boi, before I even ever knew incels were a thing. I just realized that I will probably find someone in time, but I just gotta focus on me first. This probably adds zero to the topic, but I thought I'd share how much happier I am when I got out of that fog.
Before this video I had never heard the terms "catastrophizing" and "digital self-harm". Now I realize I do both... Wow. This makes me a whole lot more similar to incels than I realized, or feel comfortable with... Thanks for opening my eyes, contra! I truly mean it. I am grateful this video exists.
Clicked so fast
I literally watched this sitting in my car during a thunderstorm and now I can’t stop my raging boner for talking about Paris Hilton and putting on lip gloss.
Using terms as "femoids", "chads", and so on, it's just how people are calling Mexican people "aliens". It's an easy way to distance yourself from the fact that you are talking about other human beings and therefore, not apply empathy.
always want to leave a comment to show how much I like your content but I never have anything worthwhile to say, so just: fucking amazing, keep it up
People should listen to a real *BREAD SCIENTIST* : Peter Kropotkin.
Thanks for this video. I feel that I can relate to incels on many levels, and also have a deep rooted nihilism. Still, I see that life isn't pointless, the point of life is what you make of it. There is no purpose, but as long as new videogames keep coming out, there's purpose.
I would not have guessed you were trans until you mentioned it. Super good transition fam
This is *the best* video I've seen on incels yet. None I have seen quite pin down the reason they keep going back like you have. It's mostly about may be a hair deeper then the top layer of advice ,but you really nail it here.
I have been stuck on /tttt/ PLEASE HELP ME Are there any other places I can go for queer internet socialization?
I am no longer Vinnie Ger, I am now, THE BREAD SCIENTIST
Absolutely masterful *tearful standing ovation*
She lost me at the point where she said women ought to be glad creeps are hitting on them because at least it means they're desirable. Bad take.
I really wish you had debunked hypergamy and the other misogynist redpill theories instead of just explaining their premises and moving on. I guess you don't think of them as ideas worth debunking, but as someone who has also spent a lot of time on internet hate forums, it would have given me peace. Thank you for making an otherwise beautiful video. Love and solidarity ✊
Richard III was the first incel confirmed, small bones
This was very informative but I really wish I didn't have this information now.
The frustrating thing is you see a lot of them are hurt and lonely and clueless, so even though they're the very worst and call for the very worst, they still recognizeably have souls. They're human. (and that's kind of what you're also seeing if you point to your own experiences)But, as someone who happens to be female, ow would I prove to them that *I* have a soul?  How can any of us prove that to anyone?
"Hello boys, Let's talk about bone structure" I want to start every conversation like this now.
You’re a gorgeous goddess
As an amab nonbinary person, who is attracted to both masculine and feminine folks I totally agree with your point about dating apps. On tinder, most of my matches are women who most likely perceive me more as a man and treat me as such while on grindr its men. The men are more likely to talk to me on grindr than on tinder and even though most of them are pretty gross I prefer just because I get to interact with people and receive a form of attention.
Im Gay and honestly as much as I hate being Gay, thank god im not straight because women are awful to men from what I see. Its not that womens nature is bad, its society giving women incentives to act this way.
Watching this in 2020
Ded mem. EDIT: Also, the deleted okcupid blog about their data showing girls rated 4 expecting men rated 8 as opposed to men often batting below their average based on personailty certainly threw out some strongly held notions. I was lucky to get a grill who looks good and has a personailty, but that's probably because I'm the same and not bothered about machismo...but hey! Blame the Tyrones and ...(tries to find what a Japanese Stacy is called in the incel community but refuses to take more than five mins reading that tripe).
lmao
I'd gladly read an erotica novel written by Nathalie that's just her describing oceans, mountains and thunnderstorms
Great video as always. Greatly enjoyed it. I'm surprised you haven't done one about ComicsGate yet, btw. That would be super interesting!
Of course there a danger but if you look behind it it's this bleak worldview that does call up existential questions, the reductionism to the physical brings to mind nazis and social darwinism except they're shilling themselves in a vctim-y way
NO YOUR FACE IS BEAUTIFUL
Thanks for the vid, Contra!
Yeah, was not expecting a "blast" from the past from this vid. The digital self harm part of the vid made me understand incel a little more. Did not expect that.  As someone with an eating disorder, I used to visit specific websites where we posted selfies (wasn't called that at the time) to open up ourselves to the voices of the eating disorder masses. We did it partly because we needed the push to keep up the weight loss but mainly because being told we were already thin or looked great by people in your life felt like they were mocking you. You needed truth and on those forums you got that. Complete with its own terminology. It was addictive, having people rip you to shreds. Telling you where you was going wrong. Something... Purifying about it.  ... So much so it drove you off the edge where the only thoughts running through your head were catastrophic. The tiniest imperfection (anything other than straight line) was picked out and thrown at you. What is literally bone sticking out was pointed out to you as fat you needed to lose (I was 7 stone). And if you was too weak to do what was necessary to be thin... Suicide posts were waiting for you, which was also encouraged.  "You're never going to be as thin as you need to be, so just die"  I had to do what you did Natalie and just block all those sites. Did it with a password I can't ever remember and made the process to undo the block as difficult as possible. Still have those blocks in place ten years later. Just to make sure that if my eating disorder pulled me down that much at least I can't access that hell again.
That suicide note in the middle of the video was very sad I hope he didn't go through with it
First video of yours I’ve watched. I’m thrilled. Excellent video. Can’t wait to watch the backlog!
Sympathizing is bad but what about empathizing.
Natalie, I’ve been waiting for this video for like a year. I am getting a masters and want to focus my thesis around the manosphere and this video is like you crawled into my head a little. I don’t want to overstate but your content, and aim in actually figuring out groups that the left traditional won’t approach, with the aim of improving society, has really impacted my own approach to academic discourse.
As a sailor, myself, I love how you closed with the sea.🗡⚓️
Great, now I'm horny again.
Love you hon
For a bunch of people who have no history of relationships or sex incels sure seem to believe they know a lot about relationships and sex.
I    AM    ULTRA     MASCULINE   AS    YOU     CAN    SEE
Natalie your look is honestly Transition Goals for me
This is one of your best videos ever. Not the funniest, but really fucking important. Thanks for being on youtube.
This was wonderful.  I got dangerously close to some of this in my teens because my IRL prospects were nonexistant because I was a hyperemotional strange person. I was saved by making a lot of female friends on the internet and becoming a cyberslut. And while certain specific instances I would do vastly differently today due to other potentially problematic issues, on the whole I credit it for allowing me to develop a baseline appreciation and respect for women as human beings - the lack of which by so many continues to dusturb me.  I'm still a hyperemotional strange person, but I've learned to tone it down enough to actually talk with people - and I only really persue things with people who don't mind that I'm a hyperemotional strange person, preferably by being a hyperemotional strange person themselves which is incredibly sexy in a woman.  And Nat, seriously, you ARE pretty the way you are and I am definitely not just saying that.
YAS! New video from the glorious Natalie!
Clicking on these verified account commentors and subscribing like hell yeah more leftist YouTube GIVE IT TO ME
*F E E E E E E E M O I I I I I I I I D S*
Thank you.
I mean, I'm not saying I'd fuck the ocean, but. Ya know. Eh. I get it.
This is very good
Really stepping up the production values, what with David Attenborough narrating and all.
Hm. Interesting perspective.
Thank you
Wow this video was fantastic.  Like...so good that I want to recommend you to my father in law.
Was that end sequence a Shadow over Innsmouth thing?
Your analysis and personal revelation is absolutely brilliant. Seriously, I am going to move this video as much as I can. Good job.
Okay wow the sea is actually way more sexy than I thought going in to this
Amazing video!  I liked what you said about self-hatred and digital razors.  I know I've looked for negative opinions (I'm not famous, so offline or not specifically directed at myself).  But, you know, it's just so hard to take compliments, IRL or otherwise.  Like, even if people are completely satisfied with what I do, it basically means I'm doing everything right and I still feel like shit.  So there's got to be something bad, something I'm not doing correctly, something I can obsess over and fix, or at least blame.  What I like to do for other people is hide compliments in criticism.  I'm not sure if it actually helps, but I try to essentially build Trojan Horse criticisms, so they'll be more likely to take compliments seriously.  Like, if they ask you for your opinion on a paper they wrote, and you like it, you should still suggest *some* kind of edit, even if it's superficial, just so they feel like they got closer to figuring out what was wrong and fixed something.
Contra is so fucking gorgeous,,,, im gay
Okay, as an "egg" really considering finding HRT, this 2nd half of the video is giving me feels. Glad I never visit 4chan.
I feel like these poor sad guys need to meet more people like me. When I was young I also thought I "would never get laid" and was "sooo old to still be a virgin", and on top of that I'm a morbidly obese fatass so I'm no fucking "Chad". Yet for something like [maths] 80%ish? of my adult life I've been in some relationship or another, with each of them getting longer and better, culminating so far in my current relationship of over six years that would be marriage if we could afford to live together. Oh, yeah, so, I'm not rich either, so it's not that. And for the most part, the women have been more attractive than me, so it's not like I'm just... "scraping the bottom of the barrel" or whatever, probably-grosser metaphor these guys would use.  I don't know what the solution to these guys' problems are, but long ago I felt a lot like it sounds like they feel, and somehow everything has worked out okay for me, despite having none of the advantages they think make all the difference, presumable in large part due to not being... like that. Not making a gross creepy identity out of my loneliness.
Music at 7:26?
All my other comments aside, you are right. Your background in philosophy combined with your desire to educate and your knowledge and research base on bigotry has effectively made you the online expert on bigotry.
Inceldom is social anorexia mixed with misogynistic bulimia. *_Suffering is a new delicacy for men and incels are connoisseurs of fine emotional toxicity_*
Jeez, why can't people just accept that they're sad and lonely, get the help they need and get on with living? Why do they have to make an ideology out of it?
Can we talk about how late stage capitalism plays a role and also the unrealistic standards of relationships as displayed by most media?
1:56 About that: NonCompete actually has a video of an interview with Alana. I would definitely recommend it, if anyone wants to know more.
:O ........... :O ...
The ocean makes me wet.
I love this video, but also, HOW did I not know you're local until now? That's awesome. Hello neighbor!
This video deserves an award. I had a very simplistic misconception of incels, but your ability to break down the community and also self reflect on your own growth has given me a better understanding. Thanks so much.
Uh, mom, stop invoking Red Scare Sentiment. Dasvidaniya, you counter-revolutionary Troskyist.
Seductive whispering about skulls, incel forums as self harm, and discourse concerning the human fascination with millimeters of bone? Nothing has been so perfectly designed for me as this video. I can never watch anything else on YouTube ever again
I was not ready for this master piece
Natalie, you acknowledged that a sizable portion of the incel crowd is autistic, but then you say "Just be confident and go to parties" is good advice?
Beautifull. It takes such courage to talk about yourself the way you do and being capable of using that to empathize (but never justify or defend them), even with people with ideas so fucked as the Incels. Keep the good work Contra!
This was shatteringly good.
WE ARE UNDESERVING
Olly sounds like a creepypasta reader lmao  (fantastic video Natalie, probably one of your best to date)
Volcel if you wouldn't 😂That got me.  Contra, I found your videos at the very beginning of your transition and your progress has really amazed me. As a cis woman, I have NO IDEA how you nailed false lash application so fast 😂 But seriously, you're gorgeous in a way that doesn't need politically correct fluffing and just being nice. I'm sure in your personal life the way people interact with you is changing as you become more and more feminine and beautiful; don't be a cynic, let that feel good! I'm glad you're no longer seeking out the haters and the green-eyed monsters and the bottom-feeding garbage saying nasty things. Plz just bask in our love 😭  By the way, I'm cis and have some broad-ass shoulders, small tiddies, and I'm pretty sure my voice is deeper than yours is now (been told I sound like Emma Stone, very alto). If I posted a pic in a tube dress on TTTT, I'm literally 100% certain someone would say I'm a big head hon freak not ever gonna pass 💁🏼
Okay, serious question here. Is that a fainting couch you're sitting on?
Really the best analysis of incel ‘culture’ I’ve seen.  We all inhabit this world one way or another at points in our lives.  The self loathing, despair, and sour grapes all go together in one vile stew.  Hate comes from insecurity in oneself.
[I N H E R E N T   E R O T I C I S M   O F   T H E   S E A]
you might want to get checked out about that whole sea erotica thing
Watching this video makes me realize how close my brother is to become an incel. And I have no idea what to say or do to avoid that disaster, I just feel sad for him.
"...I used to a be a man who dated women, and now I am a woman who dates men"   Olly/Nataly CONFIRMED
It has always boggled my mind that these people can't see that hyper-neurotic whinging is one of the most unattractive things you can do
1. Yes, very well articulated 2. Your makeup in this is gorgeous 3. I'm so glad you were able to come to terms with your addiction to self harm. I went through something similar when I was a somewhat popular artist in a subculture a few years ago. I had to go on the imageboards and see what my detractors were saying because I believed that that was the only thing that could be true, because it stung and made me feel worthless. I quit that cold turkey, and have been better ever since. 4. I've absolutely seen pictures of incels that I would drop panties for, and I wish I could get it into their heads what they're doing wrong.
Kochana Natalio, wyglądasz jak Venus w tym filmiku ⚘⚘⚘
roosh saying "I am hypermasculine" reminds me of joffrey from game of thrones being scolded by his grandfather: "any man who must say he's the king is no true king"
This has surprisingly intense parallels with Lovecraftian horror. Discovering a hidden sector of the world just under your nose, only to have it take over your mind and lead you into insanity. And the Black Goat of a Thousand Yound did spring forth and unleash, with singular timbre of cyclopaen weight, a most accursed call. "I'ya, Chad! I'ya, sui fuel!"
Thank you for going to the bottoms of the internet so we don't have to.
Excellent content here. Bravo.
My god I love you.
I'd Feel Bad For These Incels But There Actually Just Making Me Look Way Better By Comparison.  They Are There Own Sad Self-Fufilling Prophecys!
WHAT IS IT WITH YOU PEOPLE AND SKULLS ??
Nonsense! Nonsense, I say! The sea is not our Dark Mother!
watching this in my silk dressing gown with wine and a burrito just feels right
Black pilled Incels' characterisation of women is indistinguishable from intersectional feminism's characterisation of white straight males. Social conspiracy theories that alleviate their believers of any sense of responsibility or self-determination, ITS JUST THE FUCKIN WHITE MALES/STACEYS AND CHADS [delete as appropriate]
I should be studying now, but I can't just leave this video behind without finishing it because  1. It's amazing. 2. You look amazing. Srsly.
Hey Contra (or, may I call you Nat?), thank you for this video. I've never been among the "Incels", but I know what it's like to internalize self hatred and project it outwards through deliberately seeking out hurtful comments online. Now I finally have a name for the experience I never thought about how to describe before.  Also, if I may give a compliment, I find your voice is much more relaxed now than it was when you first started transitioning. There was nothing *wrong* with your voice before, but now you definitely don't sound like your straining as much. Which is never a bad thing, since I'd rather you not have to strain your vocal chords!  Best wishes, and keep up the good work :).
This is the video I’ve waiting for that I never knew I wanted.... I love you Natalie ❤️❤️❤️❤️❤️❤️(fuck me)
Oh god, that first minute fifteen was cringe force 10
when i got the notification that this video dropped, i @'ed my entire discord group out of sheer excitement
My anaconda don't want none Unless you've got skulls, hun
I'm not an incel, but this video somehow felt almost therapeutic to me.  Especially when you talked about how one would seeks hurtful judgments for self-harm purposes.
How am I supposed to learn anything when I orgasm 10 seconds into the video? I need a cigarette.  edit: I finished the video and I have an ocean and a thunderstorm fetish now. Thanks Natalie!
This was beautiful buuuuut...I think it missed 2 crucial points that were seriously worth bringing up.   First, sex doesn't appear to be what these guys obsess over as there are many posts that talk about opportunities that they've rejected.  What they seek is validation.  Some people often reccomend prostitution as a solution to their virgin status, but most reject it because sex is NOT what they want.  They want what supposed Chad's have, which is a cake-walk of a time getting the attention they want from women.  It's part of the reason so many of them refuse to improve.  Why work THAT hard when Chad doesn't have to?  Especially if they still might face rejection.  Second, not all women are created equally to them.  They seem to have a profound disgust for black women and an equally profound obsession with white and asian women.  Even in their misery-adled state, a black woman isn't good enough.  They'd rather die alone or commit suicide than be with a fat woman, woman of color, or a woman above a certain age.  Nothing less than a solid 9 or 10 aged 18 (or younger) white virgin female will do.  Elliot targeted a  valley girl sorority for a reason.  I wish you brought either of these things up.  This is honestly why I cant sympathize with them.  Most don't care about finding a partner.  It's about finding a partner than society deems the most valuable because a certain minority of men don't have to lift a finger to get them.  This, I think, is what makes them unworthy of an otherwise pretty open-hearted video.  Fuck them.  What you describe yourself going through is NOT what these asshats are so bent out of shape about.  I'm not sure if you're aware of this, but Elliott Rogers actually thought he deserved to win the lottery.  I am not kidding.  He obsessed over it and got really angry when he lost.  Nevermind that he had pretty well off parents.   He wanted more.  He wanted the best.  That's how incels in general are.  They see someone else win the lottery and ask themselves,  "why should 'I' have to work when people are winning the lottery left and right? It's not fair!  I should be rich, too!"  I have two beautiful daughters, and, one day when they're older, guys like these will actually wish DEATH upon them simply because they might not be interested OR, if my daughters are interested, won't be seen as human because they are mixed.  If you couldn't tell, I dont like incels much.
Contrapoints likes to fuck Deep Ones CONFIRMED.
It does always come back to the skulls....
The closing remark about the rain concerns me. How did you know I've been listening to Thunder storm background noise videos while studying?
No joke, electric guitars are a great way to sublimate sexuality, especially if you are an awkward teen/young adult.  Give an incel a cheap Stratocaster, 15W amp with distortion, and teach them to play power chords - it sounds like cheap, if noisy therapy.
It's telling that on the Becky vs Stacy macro the completely fake looking one is the one Incels yearn for. Yet my first thought seeing them was that the becky figure is the sexy one of the 2.
Thank god for this
My heart beats loudly when most of left tube is on the first 10 comments.
As a cis woman with a very large head, I feel personally attacked.
Oh joy, a man who was so beta she became a woman talking about the one demographic more beta than her own.
Another beautifully-made informative video. Your analysis of the mental-state of most incels was very insightful. I especially loved the part where you pointed out the similarities between other self-loathing communities and compared it to your own experiences to highlight how damaging that way of thinking can be. If I weren’t a broke teenager I would definitely become a patron, because I see your content as beneficial to everyone.   P.S. Olly’s monologue’s had me dying 😂
Feeling wonderful after that handful of valium, settled with a nice coffee to enjoy your video, wonderful as always. You look fab too
This is great just in general but I gotta say, I absolutely experience that "whatever hurts the most is true" thing actually hearing it was nothing short of a revelation
Oh my fucking god, I fucking love you... I know I sound Creepy as fuck but nevertheless that's the way I feel.  Not only have your videos inspired me to change my world view but they do something more than that... They give me hope!
aint wanting to get shit on by dudes on the web just self-harm?
This is a masterpiece.
I listened to this in my car on the way from work and I had to turn the volume down to make sure pedestrians couldn't hear that intro oh my god
talking about TTTT almost made me cry this video is so incredible
I'm now turned on by rain, thanks.
I’ve never been an incel, but that section on psychological self harm really hit me close to home. I’m glad that you talked about this stuff so I can try and help myself. Excellent video as always. Thanks for sharing your mind.
*10 seconds after clicking video*  Welp, I'm flaccid forever
Okay you are the best content creator on YouTube. I watch a lot of YouTube and damn LMAO
Please, please, please, make more Foppington laws.  A veritable newtonian catalogue of 18th century scientific maxims.
Love ya, Natalie! Keep on keeping on, making these great quality videos.
Eugenics? I thought that was long over with. What next, they believe in a flat Earth?
YOU KNOW NOTHING ABOUT INCELS LEAVE OUR CULTURE ALONE NORMIE REEEEEEEEEEE
I can't wait to see all of the Clockwork Orange references
A return to form, greatly done and very insightful.
This was a psychological fucking thriller h e l p
Was that Exit Music (for a Film)?
ULTRA MASCULINE BAKER
Imagine being born ugly, and the implications that would have on your life.   During puberty, many people experienced the fear & shame of rejection by the opposite sex. It was our first taste of being rejected by our peer group. That's why everybody _hates_ middle school.   Now imagine being one of the unlucky few for whom thise terrible feeelings never went away. Imagine stewing in that shame, and that depression & anxiety for a _decade or two._
I wonder if they have a special name for black women that meet their scale of attractivness? Or, like most of the world, do they think dark skinned women are not even worth looking at?
can you do a video on "trap" culture
Like it, Love it, Living for it.
Are you actually sorry for the race cel names or are you just joking?
i lost my shit so hard at "volcel if you wouldn't, bitches". powerful
This video is SOOOO GOOD one of the best you’ve done, I think. I’ll share this around for sure
Nice Frida Kahlo bracelet!
The voice actor you got to do the incel  voices actually sounds like a total chad
Godddd I’m a trans guy and I can totally relate the to the whole looking up what shitty people say about you thing. Sometimes I go on gender critical tumblr just to see what they say about trans guys. It’s horrible and belittling and at worst makes me question everything about my transition. I’m having to resist it right now jfc. Thank you for the new video! Really loved it.
Great job, Natalie.  This video came out just as I finished catching up with your back catalog and they really do get better and better.  I very much appreciate how treat everyone with dignity and compassion, don't ever stop. A lot of my friends and colleagues are not up on basic net culture, let alone the ins and outs <smirk> of these sub cultures.  I want to share this video with them because they might recognize their sons, brothers, or uncles who they didn't realize were self-harming in this way.
Proposal: trick incels into joining a "sexual" Marxist revolution, then reveal that its gay.  I'd love to see the looks on their faces.
in any given group of a men only 1/4 will go up to a girl and ask them out that already increases the odds for those who actually fucking talk to girls get up go to a girl and talk doesn't matter if you fail or nyot just fucking talk to a girl practice ya dumb pussys or don't I'll keep getting laid if you have no balls
Thanks for making beaches and rainstorms erotic. That's a thing I never thought possible
Now I just can't stop thinking about the weird shape of my skull.
You are implying every single man has been able to reproduce in the history of mankind, even though all data points to the contrary.  There have always been incels, it's just possible for them to congregate and conceptualize their predicament now, thanks to the internet. They are getting attention because it's hip and "in" to hate cis males these days, it's a low hanging fruit.  You did not refute or even challenge any of their "tenets",  which I find interesting.  The very fact that an androgynous transexual can openly make fun of males for their lack of sexual success speaks volumes on the state of affairs of western society.
She dragged them chansgenders :O
Olly sounds American when he's doing the angry voice. lolz
You're a gorgeous goddess.
It's a cliché: Misery loves company.  There's an unfortunate comfort in mirroring yourself in the toxicity of others.
You are the only person who make a 35 min talk about this topic bearable.
Yaaaaaaaaaaaaaas
Brilliant as always.
Inspiring, intelligent and witty as always. Thank you so much
i love your videos !
Masterpiece!
i am surprised you didnt touch on how even when the ideal of actually being with a woman comes up, they ignore it with the madona vs. whore argument. that every woman is a slut and if she isnt a slut she would not like you anyway. and that if she is a slut you shouldnt want to bang her. even if she is offering sex to you . their logic is so very self defeating.   anyway, another great one <3
Honestly the lighting in these videos is too beautiful, I'm sure the content is good but I'm just here melting away because of how gorgeous that purple and pink lighting hits your face.
Real Contra-heads will recognize the reincorporation of Mendelssohn, yet another punchline for which the setup comes later, like the fly.
brb sending this video to everyone I know
34:14 this is why mermaids have got it good 🧜‍♀️ 🧜‍♂️
Yas! It's my favorite time of the month!
Fuck why did I listen to the begging on speakers, my parents are home!
There's very few people in this earth that can't get laid. There are a lot of people on this earth who have a very hard time adjusting their standards to get them their desired result.   For some people, getting laid isn't that important. I think oddly enough for others though. Having this identity of being celibate has given them their only group structure that accepts them in the world. So they reject change, or moving on in their life. They embrace anger instead of grow from it. That would be my guess.   I walked away a few years ago. I don't know what I want in life, but I haven't found it in relationships. I personally found that women liked to keep me around to take care of things. To be a human doing, and not a human being. I haven't met one that valued me as much as I valued her. I am starting to wonder if that's possible, or worth trying for at this point in my life. The risk is far beyond the reward now that I'm not a young man any longer. For quite a while now dating hasn't been about sex. Sex isn't really that good with most women my age. They've been cavalier with their sexuality, and you get the idea. I spend more time dodging women my age and older now, than I do dating ever. Remember, women hold all the cards, the government will save them, and force men to help. Not the other way around. Woman also hold 60% of the debt right now. Why do you think the demonization of bachelor culture is so vibrant?  The whole thing is foreign to me, but at the same time. I have seen plenty of rejection when I was younger. So I can see somebody overreacting to it irrationally. I was ugly and strange, and I'm still not sure why I was successful with girls. Other than one thing. I just never gave up. I truly when I was younger believed that there were many fish in the seas. It worked. If one let me know she wasn't interested it was on to the next one I was interested in.   I wish that I had some idea to work off of. To get these young people to stop hating themselves for everything. So god damned much. That I think would be a good start to healing a lot of the wrong in society. I know it sounds stupid, but there is just so much self loathing for lack of a need to fight to survive.  Good Video. I enjoyed it.
When I look at the incel community, despite all the misogyny and crimes associated with them, I can’t help but feel only pity and even empathy.  I’m in my late 30’s now, happily married with a daughter, but there was a time in my life where I was basically an incel before incels even existed.  I even obsessed about my chin and looked into what qualified for PUA’s at that time for advice on women.  And because of my lack of success and obsession with getting with a woman, I did start to perceive them as something fundamentally different from me.  But I guess with me, there were certain critical junctures of my life where I could have made decisions that would either lead me deeper into the incel hive of self loathing and hatred, or eventually lead me to a fulfilling relationship.  Thankfully, I wound up making the right decisions.  But these incel groups, they just encourage these kids to always make the wrong decision.  And you make that wrong decision enough times, you wind up suicidal.
Recommended when I'm not subbed despite being up for 3 hours. Is this a sign?
I love the Contrapoints expanded universe... we havent seen Tabby in a while though!
what really confused me is the stacy/becky typology includes both sexual desirability measure it (namely, tits and ass) _and_ economic status. what does money have to do with phenotype? like, do they think all curvaceous women are rich?  look at me discussing the independence of variables of a set of stereotypes so crude that it makes social darwinism seem positively scientific by comparison
"at least these pricks care enough about my pussy, to be an asshole about my dick"  there it is, the greatest line ever uttered on youtube
As one who bleeds who wears 7 5/8 in hats (fucking big head). I never thought my head made me look less feminine, it's amazing the things people can obsess over.
Excellent video.  I love how you always try to get to the root of an issue rather than simply judging it, and the comparison of incel and TTT culture is quite apt.  And the voiceover was frankly unnerving in the best ways.
I guess you could say that they put themselves “in cells”!    ..heh
oh BOY this one is gonna be a fun ride
21:50. "...I know what it's like to obsess over millimeters of bone." Holy mother of moly, I haven't laughed like this in a long time. I have ice cold Pepsi drooling out of my nose right now.
You are forgiven.
you fucking kidnapped evil olly from the mirror universe and forced him to read those. so cursed.
It's amazing how a change in vocabulary can alter your behavior.
Ok when somebody tells me their skeleton is to small i don't imagine their short i imagine that their skeleton is to small for their actual body. A cruel and probably crippling disease that would inhibit somebody from having normal sex but would probably have more pressing complications like being unable to breath as your rib cage squeezes your lungs .
I honestly thought that the term ''roastie'' meant that they were hot...  Boy was I wrong.
S E X U A L M A R X I S M
I'm clicking Like but I'm really not enjoying learning about any of this.
really impressed how frequently you manage to upload long and really well researched video with the unique contrapoint twist!
A G A I N  G R 8  V I D  H O N !!!!11111
Are we sure Pickup Artists aren't just homoromantic?
If you look at "incel" as a fetish instead of/as well as a mental illness it makes more sense..  still toxic though, and self-indulgent.
Put this in the MOMA
Wait. Has Shaun uploaded too?
At 18:45, I am a bit confused where you being ironically transphobic for the sake of the dramatic effect of the after result?
THIS IS A MASTERPIECE
hi
When I see you upload a new video, it fills my heart with so much joy, Yay finally! <3 <3 <3 <3 <3
Oh yeah, This'll end well. Be safe Natalie.
You’re so effing hilarious and your honesty is refreshing
that roosh v clip lmao
Another fantastic video, Natalie! There's a bawdy aspect to the way you use language for humour that chimes really well with my British sensibility. I love the intellect, humour, but most of all the heart that you put into your videos.
Wow. This hit a few sore spots with me - a conventionally normal looking white cis woman. Whatever hurts is true? Stuff to think on. Thank you.
v e r y   g o o d.   t h a n k   u
Natalie always gives us a layer more than I could have imagined. No empty gloating and finger pointing here. Education and uncomfortable truths only.
You didn't take one sip throughout the video. Who are you, Davis Aurini?
Holy crow. Much love and support. Yikes.
this video will awaken at least one person's rainstorm/ocean fetish
Wow. I had no clue these kind of people existed. I do feel for them, because they are going about it the wrong way, and it all just becomes a cycle of hatred and self hatred. I don't  believe in mocking people for sharing their truths, no matter if I feel they are misguided. I hope they get real help. It's just not funny, I can't help but empathize with someone that feels that level of despair.
You never disappoint! When I think there's no more interesting bigotry to be talked about, you always deliver
why is no one talkng about the chad circumference ?!
Thanks for the content notice, Natalie. First time I ever had to stop a video of yours because shit got a little too real.  I love you and your work, and I think the worst thing about the way I feel right now is knowing that someone I admire so much has experienced some of the same awful feelings I have. In a very different way, of course, but the portion of the video on digital self-harm is extremely jarring to me. I hate knowing that other people feel this way. Not because I want to be Super Special and No One Understands Me, but just because it hurts and it sucks and I don't want other people to hurt this way. I don't want you to hurt this way.   I know it doesn't help, but if you ever need another little voice on the pile of compliments you have a hard time believing, have mine. You're beautiful and smart and funny. I'd swipe right.
As a teenager I used to hang out on proana blogs on tumblr and I definitely can relate to that feeling of staying in a negative bubble. I used to make fun of incels all the time but now I kinda... relate... to them ? How the fuck do you even do that you fucking genius??
I'm just gonna call you Gorgeous Godess from now on
Oh this is gonna be good
what? I just pressed the abo button minutes ago
Always a pleasure.
aww i was so disappointed not to see the golden one at the end :S
Yes Contrapoints thank you 🙏🏻
Don't worry people, the Weebs are working hard on sex-robots.
I was never sexually attracted to the ocean before, but I think I've been sold. On a more serious note, this hits really close to home. I was dangerously close to accepting a similarly toxic worldview when I was younger. It's scary how quickly these self-destructive thoughts can take over a person's mind. Discussions like this helped pull me out of the pit, and they can do the same for others.
"Imagine how a woman feels" not in the sense of trying to empathize with women, but like how their skin physically feels.
THE CHAD CIRCUMFERENCE
DEMONETIZED
this is such an amazing video and i think it's the best video on incels. it really shows how empathetic you are queen
BRAVO, BRAVO!
Lol sex is not nearly as good as incels think, it's overhyped.
this video was INSANELY uncomfortable to watch- especially the trans part  because it felt scary  it's like standing on top of a high building and peeking off the edge into that awful mindset and fearing falling into it
yes you gorgeous goddess you
Well, this was a wild ride. Here, have a like.
Is it me or does the guy in the intro sound less like he wants a relationship with a woman and more like he wants to wear a woman’s skin
Another amazing video, thank you.
I used to go on the lesgen thread on /lgbt/. Don't know if its still there. Very TERFy and there are a vocal few who are basically lesbian incels.
I see myself as a noodle scientist.  Take that as you might.
Man I love when frustrated virgins decide that chicks going to college and fucking random guys and stuff somehow *prevents* them from getting laid.  I mean, I have that alleged chad brow ridge but metalheads listen to music an awful lot, actually...  I dunno, maybe have more interests than fucking Counterstrike and self-righteousness before claiming you’ve tried everything.
Excelent vídeo! I feel sorry for these young men being preyed on by these incel forums. I really feel like their indoctrination into hate serves a second unknown agenda. Is it the rise of the Republic of Gilead maybe?
L O V E  M E  M O M M Y
foppington's law is the realest thing I have ever heard omfg why is it so fucking accurate how many hours do you spend just studying the idiocy of the internet?? I'm so sorry contra. have a corndog
There is an actual thunderstorm while im watching this
#volcelifyouwouldnt
Thank you for making this. It started out just normal informative, but you also really helped demystify a lot of the mental health stuff I’ve noticed about myself and didn’t know the words to describe.  And also I want to go swimming in the sea...
"When my fist clenches, crack it open Before I use it, lose my cool And when I smile, tell me some bad news Before I laugh, and act like a fool  And if I swallow anything evil Put your fingers down my throat If I shiver, plase give me a blanket Keep me warm, let me wear your coat"
"The Manosphere exists because Rock n' Roll is dead." - ContraPoints, 2018
first
I <3 this channel.
It takes a lot for someone on YouTube to command my attention for over half an hour, but I didn't even hesitate smashing dat play button.  You're so good at this!
Hearing Olly's voice acting is the best thing to happen to me today.
(Insert Michael Jackson eating popcorn meme).
HON, YOU WILL NEVER PASS... Now that I have your attention, YOU ARE BEAUTIFUL! LOVE that woman in the mirror and she will LOVE YOU! I love you, just a little bit, since I don't really know you. I love your brave example. I love your voice, expressive as a performer should be. You're hotter every time I see you.   Maybe one day, you won't read this anymore. Maybe one day, the trigger headline doesn't mean a damn thing. And loving who you are doesn't mean passing or not. No one ever said love is in the eye of the beholder.  Good points about incel self harm culture too.
Ah, yes, 35 minutes with my queen, thank god
I have never once felt satisfaction and peace after sex but that's mainly because of the ballgag.
God, Incels are so gross
I s2g that was the best cold open in history
YES YES YES OML IT'S HERE
Hey, you are amazingly keen and suprisingly well researched in some dark places. Thank you for making a 35  minute video that felt short and left me wanting more. Keep doing you!
how dare natalie contrapoints make me consider if i might have a thing for the sea
Oh man, tackling incels now? I'll be needing popcorn and fireproof underwear before I read the comments. Holy shit.
not a virgin but single/sexless/kissless/loveless for 10 years now, actually a bit more (mai 2008 was my last gf) and even the few GFs I had lasted AT MAX extacly 1 month, so I have basically no fucking clue about relationships.  Turning 30 next year and my isolation and loneliness fucks with my mental health.  I dont hate women, but I do hate Tinder and dating apps like it. I'm not ugly but also no chad.   I can empathize with incels because of this, but sometimes I look down on some of them, when they are younger. Why does a 20 year old complain about being single? who knows what happens in the next 5 years.  However being alone for a decade, that really hurts, it makes you lose all hope, because you are only getting older but not wiser.
Couldn't get into it, skull was too fake.
I love the ocean and the sea. I’m panauqasexual?
"chads of colour" fucking lmao
Man...I wish these incels had just gotten into ERP like me. Jerking it while having fun times with friends AND playing D&D ALL AT THE SAME TIME!?   Is there anything better!?   Yes!   Playing Exalted! The mechanics are better, and there's loads of fun charms to add to sex scenes. There's the obvious, like Celestial Bliss Trick or Thousandfold Courtesan Calculations if you're a sexy robot (my favorite Exalted type.) But there's also paramagical tethers for in air bondage, or various ride charms like Mount Preservation Method (to ensure your enthusiastic whipping doesn't unduly discomfort your sub.) That's not even getting into the fun you can do with even terrestrial circle sorcery! Summoning demons and elementals, anyone? Fuck a man made of fire while using Invulnerable Skin of Bronze to ensure you don't die.  The possibilities are endless!
Imagine how a woman feels when she rips a huge fart right next to you. But you'll never know because your fibula is 0.33mm too short. Sorry.
incel's perceptions of chads & women feels like they watched a couple of those stereotypical high school dramas & proceeded to base their entire worldview on it
Are there gay incels? Gincels? Nancels? Homcels?
Warning: Do not try to have sex with the Sea if you live North of the 50th Parallel.
I could probably be an Incel - at least the pejorative version, i.e. a bitter virgin who hates women - but I can't really. I understand too well why I'm undateable/unfuckable and I can't be angry. Like, yeah, I get it, I'm a 30-something balding fat guy with a shitty retail job and interests too niche to be relatable. I wouldn't fuck me, either. :V
reboot rock & roll, got it, I'm pretty scared of that briny blue though
Nice video, as always!  I personally sympathize more with the incels than i would like to. Rationally i know its bitterness+narcissistic rage+insecurities and such. But a part of me just wants to believe them.  And yet im probably someone these guys would call a Chad because i work out a lot and groom myself. Like, all people, no matter how they look like can have crippling insecurities.
Thank you for making a shitty day better.
I read the guy at the start of the video has nothing to do with incels, they just took his face :(
Man, we're getting to the uncomfortable sexual stuff right off the bat today, and you didn't even say it yourself!
Your ability to light your videos the way you do without YouTube compressing it to dogshit is incredible to me
Another amazing video. Really informative and entertaining. Plus the host is 🔥 🔥 🔥
Okay, but honestly here...these guys really need to take a long look inside themselves. I think the problem is lurking somewhere there in reptile brain's swere swamp. You AREN'T supposed to listen to that voice, gentlemen.
Let's get down to business to defeat the hons
'uncontrolled feminism' ... yikes .
Great video. I just got rejected again and was thinking about how it seems like I'm destined to be alone and unhappy. Watching this made me think more about how using Tinder and not going out often enough is making me slowly looking at the situation in a toxic way ("this person is pretty, so she is inclined to tell me to fuck off if I just look at her"), instead of focusing on making me a better candidate for dating. Thank you.
Fucking incredible. Your videos never fail to be absolutely amazing
You know it’s gonna be a good episode when you have to pause not even 20 seconds in cause the cringe is too strong.
you want to grab them by their black ops t-shirt ...
Does the Foppington's law apply to hamlet?
Contra, congratulations. You've not only turned out one of your best videos, but you have contribuited an original point of view to the incel subject, while being eloquent and not that agressive.  <3 u
>mfw I am Chad but I have psychological problems so i am stuck here with you dumb virgins
Incels have confused me since the first time I heard about them, because In high school I got romantically rejected all the time, and I didn't develop their worldview. But I hadn't considered the effects of a toxic vocabulary, or the echo-chamber effects of the internet. I hadn't considered a lot of this, and it's been very educational. Thanks.
I'm not sure this did me any good, to be honest. I'm not an incel, but that shit is infectious. Hmmmmmm... Shit.
Why bother make an entire video about these head bangers.. Im out👌
You look so great here !!
I almost drowned when Roosh said he baked his own bread, say sorry.
q w e e n
I think it's pretty clear that incel misogyny comes from a place of powerlessness & desperation. It reminds me of a school bully with an abusive dad.   Yeah, this kid is doing something wrong, and it's NOT acceptable, but you can't just ignore the abusive dad.
Also, you need to release a Contrapoints OST because there are songs that I would seriously listen to all day.
My fragile masculinity is telling me I'm not a 'baker' or a 'cook', I am a CASSEROLE SCIENTIST
w o m a n f e e l s ™
Great video! I also think that a good explanation for why many people seek out negative comments about themselves to confirm their worst anxieties is that it can be somewhat of a relief. Like it gives someone an excuse to stop trying, and it's easier to "lie down and rot'' than it is to actively try and make yourself better. Telling yourself that it is hopeless and will never get better, then having that sentiment confirmed by actual other people makes it feel comforting to just give up.
I don't think I've ever been so turned on by the weather before. Thank you? Yeah thanks.
Incel sounds like the name of a shitty internet provider.
I hate how ingrained terms like beta and alpha have become when they have no basis whatsoever in human behavior. The terms have been regurgitated around so much no one even bothers to check if it's a real thing
I used to seek out bad comments about my transition and was only recently able to move away from. I'm glad to know I'm not the only trans woman who has suffered from this.
Yes! More Contra!
THE QUEEN HAS _RISEN_
Oh god I needed some Contrapoints after a long week of pre-apprenticeship training.
"What? A new ContraPoints video?"  *unzips*
Now thats an intro i can squeeze my hog to
I...never really thought of incels as anything other than pathetic and genuine monsters due to what I've seen out of incels.me This video, while not at all pushing me towards liking them in any way, has helped me...understand them on a more personal level. Fuck them, but like, I get it...sorta.
Roosh V seems like a Sacha Baron Cohen character who somehow has become a real person
31:17 ok I laughed way too hard
The editing in this video is crazy amazing!!! Best I've seen so far!! Wow!!
For some reason I often feel like I am an incel. Its very a strange feeling considering who I am and others would scoff at me for even mentioning it. My longest relationship was 5 months and I didnt really try to bang, she mentioned it first but I didnt want to because I wasnt comfortable yet. I went on tinder and got a decent amount of cute matches considering I picked dumb pics. My phones messages are 60% girl (space) friends who I legitimately would not want to be in relations with. Because I couldnt consider marrying them since we only have a few things in common with each other and I consider them valueable as friends.  Still feel like im unwanted 50% of the time even though history would prove otherwise. So I dont know if its just a normal feeling that people have.
Incels is a mindvirus , vaccinate yourselves from it
I smell toxic masculinity
KILL-ING_IT
I just binged all your videos and finally finished this. You are so intelligent , every vid is like a lesson. Thank you.
17:37 A straight trans woman, that is new (at least for me). 17:47 Ok, you're bi.
I love this video but I really must know which album of Zoe Blade's are you getting the tracks. Her discography is huge.
Peter, Tigerstar, Philosophy Tube, and Three arrows all in one comment section. Contrapoints is truly art
Sis. You're both giving and stealing my god damn life with the look in this vid.   I love it.
Oh my God, I also feel like every compliment I receive is an "everyone is (positive quality)". That's probably bad. I feel so caught between feeling like I'm beautiful and powerful and talented and feeling like I'm the most gormless trash with a paper-thin facade that truly fools no one.
Natalie, you have a real gift for deconstructing arguments, exposing the defensive walls that prevent help from penetrating and paralleling to more mainstream experience, while keeping it all from seeming so God damn hopeless. Thank you for your hard work. It definitely helps when trying to reach out to young men attracted to these group types. You're awesome!
holy shit. what you said about incels and /tttt/ is so fucking accurate. thank you for this
475th
Waiting to see if Contrapoints is going to shit on this group of people at the very bottom of the social order.   People _love_ to stomp on these guys.   It's like they start channeling their primary-school-self, and suddenly need to reinforce their own mating rights by punching down.
TOO MUCH NUANCE. MUST HAVE BLACK & WHITE WORLDVIEW. HALP.
Had to pause after the Roosh bit because I was laughing too hard.
Your face is beautiful
As a loser, I will never understand hating people in this manner. I do, however, understand outrage at the American Ruling Class and the politicians who serve them and the people who vote them in. Because these things impact your life materially.  If you're not cool, just hang out or date people like you. Not a big deal. All people and groups are a bit silly, so just get in where you fit in. And quit hating about inconsequential shit.  If you hate the fact that dumb jocks who can't converse well can get girls you like, well then imagine how unhappy you would be trying to talk with said girl about the nerdy shit you like. Find a smart, nerdy girl, and go to museums, coffee shops, movies ffs.
Thumbs up for "bread scientist". Made me chuckle!
Massive kudos to you for managing to address a subject as f-ed up as this and still make me laugh my balls off xD
SKULL PEOPLE SKULL PEOPLE
Can't say this enough, incels would get so much sympathy from people (including "femoids") and maybe get the advice and change of worldview they need to find girlfriends (and yes, maybe even have sex) if they weren't so hell-bent on making everybody hate them. Trust me, I've been browsing /r9k/ a lot and really, there ain't a community so fulla bitter, racist, misogynistic creeps anywhere else on the internet.
18:46 spookperson shade ? in my yootoob ??
YES. THANK YOU!!
I wasn’t expecting this video to be as real as it was Jesus
A few years ago, if I would have heard of this... thing... I might have considered myself one of them. This is because I considered myself to be celibate or a virgin because of involuntary circumstances. It dawned on me at some point that this idea, of being nice and it, sex, was owed, was not of women, but of an object which intercourse would happen. Sex is more than genitals touching. I'm nearing 25, and I still have not had sex; I've had chances, but then nonconsensual sex isn't sex. I have, with consent, had a girl at my apartment and we slept in the same bed together. We didn't "sleep together" "have sex" but shared each other. Going forward, for me, that is more important than losing this mythical object called virginity.
Contra and Olly are my otp. I'm sorry, I'm doomed.
The lighting! This lighting!! This woman! I love her
I LOVE ME A WILD FEMOID
This is absolutely insane. Based on the stuff quoted from the incels themselves, their--movement?--is deeply neurotic.
Abigail should have TERF bangs
ok the inherent eroticism of the sea is such mood
Have I been pronouncing "femoids" wrong this whole time? 'Cause honestly, I've only ever seen it written down before now.
The WOMEN Feels.
12:11. He's being funny, right? He's doing a bit. You just took it out of context for comedy purposes. Right? Please tell me this is the case. Tell me a man can't be that insecure about his masculinity. Please...
17:50 Tabby? ( ͡° ͜ʖ ͡°)
THE INHERENT EROTICISM OF THE SEA
TTTT is cancer.... i call like... little kids hon. :(
God these people need some supportive people in their lives. Incels and TTTT.
ｔｈｅ Ｉｎｈｅｒｅｎｔ Ｅｒｏｔｉｃｉｓｍ ｏｆ ｔｈｅ Ｓｅａ
27:20 yeesh. I’m a pre-surgery, pre-T, pre-everything-except-a-binder trans man and I feel this hard. I have long hair, I weigh 200lb, and while my self image and esteem have improved, no matter how many times my friends tell me I look handsome or manly, I will always go back to my mom loudly and deliberately pointing out the chest I put so much effort into trying to hide.
"My gigant Hun skull". Mishearing this just made me wiki ritual cranial deformation among the Hun people. I was going to make a joke about nomadic warrior contra, but now I have a rabbithole to explore instead.
man i am not GAY!!!!
Dear gods.... This is what love feels like.
Are they wrong though? I see incels as an extreme reaction to very real issues in human interaction. The fact is that women control the economy of sex which means that a lot of men are going to lose out on meaningful relationships. However, they have an extremely cringy perspective of the world. These people need help honestly.
Can someone please tell incels that women aren't like men and they don't select their mates based only on looks? I mean, you select your tinder date based on looks, but then you fuck him that night and that's it. Patrice fucking O'Neal, an absolute alpha was a 300kg ugly black man, who by his own admission didn't even have a big dick. But he was very successful with women. If an obese, gap-in-the-teeth having, pendulous-tits having black ass african-american can be successful with women, then at least the majority of men can.
i love this? i adore you?
"Firing squad of bad dicks"  😂😂😂
I imagine that they could probably use a good domme in their lives.
"The Chad's with the fuckable skulls" I nearly choked on my dinner😂
Shit like this makes me so happy being gay.
"For the young men in this demographic...Jordan Peterson is probably helpful because he's telling them a lot what they need to hear. And he's kind of a sexist old man, so they might actually listen."  this is how I will describe Jordan Peterson from now on thank you
Coming out as a baker...
"The inherent eroticism of the sea"
S E A   M O M M Y
Can you add a Chad character please?
Isnt it because our culture fetishizes sex, and puts extreme  emphasis on beauty which causes both men and women resentment, and  to lash out due to their insecurities. Their are many women and man who fetishizes sleeping with that perfect person, the illusion of love at first sight which we are taught as kids and has become ingrained in our culture?
Getchyur snaks boys and girls (and non-binary peeps)
i love it when mum and dad collaborate
What about those who finally get laid and realise it's not that great?
you've gotten really good with makeup. you look really good
The 2014 one, looks like that Boston bomber, so he must really have been an asshat
*talks about the chad circumference* great video! never ceases to entertain and educate
Your videos and everything about you is my aesthetic
THE BEGINNING MAKES ME SO UNCOMFORTABLE OH MY G O D
Daddy Jordan wants you to clean your room, Roosh V wants you to bake your own bread, what is coming next...?
The cut to Tiffany Tumbles was a nice touch. 10/10 as per usual ❤️
I was gonna watch this but I stopped it at 0:17 because it's just too much, man. Now I'm gonna get some coffee, dim the lights and resume.
6:03 How is this so accurate?!
Right as I was wondering why most incels adopt right-wing views, which claim to champion egalitarianism and self-reliance, yet blame all of their "problems" on some other, you bring up how someone like Jordan Peterson bridges the gap. *~slaps forehead~* Of course! You're so awesome!
I needed this.
I am so incredibly glad that there weren't forums full of this stuff when I was 16. I know I would have bought into the whole thing.
8 minutes in and i am already profoundly uncomfortable
Bread scientist. I C O N I C
"Take me Mommy" watered my crops and cured my depression
Gods above, I forgot how miserable the Incel ideology sounds when you just listen to it.  Like they don't sound healthy in the head and this is coming from a person with depression and anxiety problems.
...and then you wake up, and it is your sister.
These are highlights of my month. Thank you for making such... Interesting content
Can someone please tell me what music is playing at the tirade at 7:25???
damn gimme some of that wide-ass sea wrist 💧😍🌊💦
I'm tall and pretty good looking with decent sized wrists and I can't even get laid. These little fuckers don't stand a chance.
Why does no one talk of the bone-feel?
10 seconds in and this is already fantastic, Natalie, you never dissapoint
Do you guys think contract just has these lights going all the time, for the aesthetic?
Wait wait is that a SONG I hear in the background of your video?! Now I'll never be a chad! I can already feel my bones shrinking by several milimeters
LOL
I'm hypnotized by watching your neck flex every time you speak and wondering if I do the same from voice training.
That ageist jab was really unbecoming.
what do i have to do to hear you say "roast beef" more? and where's my Tyrone bros at, yo??...🌚
the point of this vid? i couldn't tell you, i'm just obsessing over my tiny womanly wrists now.
SOCIALISTS ARE THE INCELS OF WEALTH I rest my case.
Released on my lunch hour too. Thank you.
From another trans woman, you are life goals and wife goals, all in one.
Ay Ollie y Natalie son tan delicioso 😫💦💦
I don't fit any of the criteria but I've had sex before.... Does that make me a Tyrone?
I've gotten laid, and I've got legitimately bad bone structure.   Incels are just ugly on the inside.
Wait? Did Roosh just call himself a 'master baker'
My wrists are demonstrably small, i have autism and im married. Am i humaning wrong?
The only thing a good shaped skull gets you is a Predator on your ass to add you to their collection.
I hope that is a real skull
I'm a simple person. See Contra video, press a like.
I chocked on my food when I heard "Chad-splaining" omfggg
10:18 I was literally raising my eyebrow
You are so hot QUEEN
YAAAY! YOU'RE BACK, CONTRA! MISSED YOU!
I fucking live for the nature documentary style voiceover of the graphics
Queen!!!!! This day was shitty until I found out you uploaded
God, these incels never do any hygienic measures and never research any fashion they like and then wonder why they’re not attractive lmao
WHAT IS IT WITH YOU PEOPLE AND SKULLS?!
s k u l l  s t r u c t u r e?
contra is so intelligent and pretty!!! ;_;
the video starts at 5:28
OMG chadsplaining. You came up with that, right?
Ive never slammed the link to a YouTube video so fast
love the lighting, as always, its on point
Wrists. . .
Love your channel. You always have something interesting to talk about and the videos are very aesthetically pleasing.
Yeah Mommy is back.
« All women are queens » ==> «  IF SHE BREATHES SHE’S A THOT » From nice guy to incel
Everyone who disliked is jealous because Natalie IQ mogs them!
𝐌 𝐄 𝐀 𝐒 𝐔 𝐑 𝐄   𝐓 𝐇 𝐄   𝐒 𝐊 𝐔 𝐋 𝐋 𝐒
How the fuck does Roosh call himself an ultra man and then say it’s ok for him to cook cause culinary things are scientific lmfao ok let’s get women in STEM then
Shaun's skull is my sexuality
Ground floor
this censored words should be replaced with a more friendly sound than just *BLEEP* . Its very anoying, and hurts the ears.
I first thought "Imagine how a woman feels" was a reference to emotions. But no, it's literally saying "IMAGINE WHAT IT FEELS LIKE TO TOUCH THIS OTHER PERSON"   Jesus Christ, incels are creepy.
vivre la terre battre le réveil!
I think incels are a combination of an already toxic culture,a way to spread said culture,and basically unconscious motives summed up by Freud and Jung.
A new contract video and I miss being an early comment by this much.  She must wait until I go an watch some of her videos before releasing a new one.
Are they trying to resurrect phrenology????
I don't think I have ever seen a women that looks like the stereotypical "Stacy" maybe I'm not looking in the right places. And does that mean I am surrounded by Becky's 😱 and there awful nerdy buns and $5 backpack urgh.
f e m o i d s
I thought this was a vaatividya video for far too long into it
this particular woman feels really happy to have a new ContraPoints video!!! xx
This video was astounding and hit way too close to home in ways I didn't expect <3
When I was in my early twenties, I had a bad crisis in my life and felt things similar to the black pill ideals. I'm good now. But I know how that feels and it is a horrible place to be. These people need professional help.
Imagine the mouthfeel
tfw stacies don't date you becuz your wrists aren't girthy
A big issue with Masculinity as it is practiced is that when women get at their most lonely and desperate, they buy romance novels like "Ravaged by the Raptor", but men create internet terrorist cells and shoot people.
why is this stupid shit so elaborate?
IS THAT EVEN ALLOWED???  (knocked it out of the park again!!!)
THE QUEEN IS BACK
I don't have a girlfriend T_T ......... and even I find these guys creepy smh ,Were did we go wrong
Damn girl, you are busy!  Thanks for the new vids.  I can’t wait for the next season of Big Bang Theory for some cheeky incel shannanigans.  Nerd misogyny, yay!
Thanks, thats just what I needed today
are these he-oids seriously suggesting that having sex changes your fucking bone structure!?!
These incels are so fucking weird because they go to Internet forums to complain about how shitty women are, and then wonder why women don’t like them.
Ураааа!!! New video!
Roosh loves bread, science, and has a beard like that... boy do we have a book for him.
Omg Contra I actually love you
ngl, I got a little hard listening to Ollie reading the intro
New video from Natalie...  ***ALL CURRENT ACTIVITY MUST CEASE!***
*sees title* YAAAAAAS BITCH I BEEN WAITING ON THIS
I'd say legalizing prostitution would solve the Incel problem but considering how these monsters talk about women I'm really terrified thinking about how they will treat prostitutes. Life is so complicated.  [p.s. prostitution should still be legal bc government has no right to tell someone what they should do with their bodies]
Seize the means of reproduction
OH MY FUCKING GOD YES. I'M GONNA GET A JOB JUST TO SUPPORT YOU ON PATREON I MEAN IT.
this gave me dysphoria lol whoops
YAY
There's more self loathing in these incel memes than in my highschool memories oof. How does that happen?
The virgin head shape is basically just edward norton and id like to ask who the f c u k doesn't have a crush on edward norton
Sexual Marxism? *laughs in Jordan Peterson*
I'm losing my mind over Olly's American accent
Well, I can never watch a philosophy tube video the same way again.
I discovered your channel last week and I have seen every singel video by now!
Incels are more terrifying and destructive to American society than radical Islam. You will never hear a politician talk about misogyny in that way though.
Until I read Olly's name in the description, I thought you had collaborated with VaatiVidya on this one.
Wow
Incels 🤮🤮🤮🤮🤮🤮🤮🤮🤮🤮🤮🤮🤮🤮🤮
I used to think i am an incel  but then i realized i never really tried to get laid, and even if a woman tried to make the first step i probably could not even see it through all the self loathing so i guess it's pornhub for me.
Aw hell yea.  I've been waiting a full forty minutes since I first learned via Twitter that a new video was due, but I'm excited.  I'll let you know after watching the video.
i'm so sick rn but this video coming out made my day
6:36 contrapoints asmr? wow ok I’m a fan
Weed, pizza AND Natalie talking about fringe internet shit? Can my Friday get any better?
Yay, new video by ContraPoints!
Great choice of topic.
AAAH new ContraPoints vid! You save my evening, thank you a lot in advance!!
Please make an asmr channel
Your eyelashes saved my life, God Mother
Glad to see this thing being philosophically addressed
I'm a 6ft tall, with a big beard.  Both traditionally masculine.  I also have really delicate wrists and hands.  And honestly, more women have said they are attracted to my arms than my height or hair.
Olly did a good job at narration
I missed you!
This is an incredibly well-made video and succeeds in developing an understanding of how the incel community works and how its downward spiral resembles other unhealthy self-hating patterns. I mean, you say it's not about sympathy, but it does succeed in empathy. That doesn't mean forgiveness, but it does mean exploring the dark place incels find themselves, which is the only way to help someone escape it before they destroy themselves and others
I'm not going to be ok listening to Olly speak ever again. Thanks, Natalie.
omggg I wondered if you were gonna do one on incels.  heckin quality content, nat.
Gang Weeder Gamers Rise Up for the Incelrrection!
6 min gang
I'm so glad you made this!
Holy shit, Roosh V literally took the Bread Pill! Welcome to the Class War, comrade! 🏴🏴🍞🥖🍞🥖🍞🥖🍞🥖🏴🏴
You're just amazing you know that <3
New Contrapoints?  Hell, yeah.  Work is for suckers.
A 35 minutes Contrapoints video? Jackpot!
Incels? Hoho, this gonna be good.
*the inherent eroticism of the sea*
MoMmY
"They're just men who formed an identity around not getting laid" worst way to form an identity tbh
Great vid
the opening monologue to this video (the reddit post) gave me mesothelioma and i'm entitled to compensation. But the video is great, as always!
honestly you remind me of like a leftist kinder Heather Chandler
jesus christ you look so fucking HOT
Eh, incels seem like a "low hanging fruit" target at this point... But still a good vid.  I think I just rather see ya tackle something more challenging.
hands down the best youtuber on this entire site i got unreasonably exited when i saw the notification for this
Oh my god, I've been fascinated with incels since Elliot Rodger, I'm so ready for this
an almost 40 minute contrapoints video dropping in the middle of one of the worst days of my life is honestly a gift from god
And here I was hoping we would get some olly action. Wish granted
the queen is back
My problem with Incels is they want an insurrection/violent coup d'etact.
Got a little jolt of excitement when I saw you uploaded a new video. Was not expecting that opening though. :P
YES QUEEN!!!
Contrapoints is a fucking Stacy smh my head
Yay! A new contra video!
NATALIE!!! MY WIGG!!!
Hey your less intelligence and more faggoty and more gayer far left Communist boygirlfriend thing Riley Jew Dennis put a video based on non-debate, calling all dissonance alt right Conservative trolls, and essentially promoting left wing terrorism.
Oh shit.
M Y B O D Y I S R E A D Y
Moms back
holy shit that intro i was not prepared
Is it Christmas morning???
Immediately it's a Stav laughing and saying "No, deeeewd," moment
thank you goddess
Grab your liquor of choice folks, we’re in for a ride.
Crap, and I'm out of snacks or popcorn...
I always set aside time for Contra Points
tfw your skeleton is too small
Wow, I'm a recent sub, and I am glad to see more of your insane videos.
My queen!
yayyyy uwu love you natalie!
Incel.... Mommy I'm scared of this video...
ContraPoints+PhilisophyTube. This should be illegal.
I'm not healthy enough to withstand rejection and drugs and therapy haven't worked. what do?
MOTHER HAS ARRIVED.  OH BLESS. 💚
Damn yes!! I was waiting for this
I like this.
wtf
10 seconds in: Already dying that you got Philosophy Tube ("Olly?") to voiceover incel erotica
GUYSGUYSGUYSGUYS AAAAA
MOMMY
I'm less than a minute into the video, but holy shit whoever wrote that post needs Jesus. Lovely voice though.
oh baby here we go
Omg yes! I've been dying for you to discuss this topic. Oh my queen, how I've missed you. 😘💕
dear god I’m filled with excitement and terror
I love you I love you thanks for your content 🍒🥝🍎😍
dear queen of youtube, released a new video
OMFG IS THIS A DREAM
Tfw you about to board a plane but bae is back
I'M SO READY FOR CONTRA
jesus whyy
Haven't watched it but i know its excellent regardless
35 minutes of Natty? Hoo boi.
I have never clicked on a notification so fast.
Yay
Sup
The  ~ C h a d  C i r c u m f e r e n c e  ~
"The inherent eroticism of the sea" Among the best things I have heard in my life.
BREAD SCIENTIST
thank you so much for introducing me to Roosh V's bread making guide
/lgbt/ is such a horrible place, i'm glad you drew the comparisons to inceldom because they really are shockingly similar in a lot of ways. amazing video
damn it natalie how do you manage to make your videos so funny, sad, sexy, poignant, theatrical, and critical all at the same time. you have achieved mastery of the youtube form
"Rope fuel"  ...maybe the whole internet-thing wasnt such a good idea afterall.
Your unique compassion is what makes these kind of videos so great and insightful
how do you keep making your best video every time
I love the way you connect the experiences of seemingly disparate groups. It's such a good way to foster empathy and compassion between them. Thankful for your work!
I used to listen to a lot of the Tom Leykis show in my early 20s, and took his perspective pretty seriously. Back in the day I never knew much about incel 'philosophy' until now, but a lot of it really rang familiar, and I never realized it until now; Women can't be your friends, women aren't worth your time except as a 'cum dumpster', ugly women are less than human, etc... It's frightening to think that I could have ended up that way if I hadn't made friends with a handful of women who helped to turn my perspective around. That kind of thought is dangerous and frightening, and it's no wonder that some young, depressed, angry men who feel like sex is the end-all, be- all of existence, the only way to earn validation as a human being, feel left behind by society, and act out in ways that get others hurt or killed.  I love what you do, I've never been a more proud patron than today, thank you for addressing this issue, and I hope that your ever increasing platform helps awareness among the public at large  <3
Hearing Olly say recite such things is a truly horrifying experience
One minute in and between the beeps, the music and narration I am in tears laughing.  This video is going to be great.
"Sour grapes" made my eyelid spasm. "Cackoldreeh" made me lmao.
such a good video!
Damn now I know why I like thunderstorms so much. Thanks mom.
Straight people are scary
Has Roosh "BANG the Planet" V been breadpilled?
r/transgendercirclejerk :D
Now I'm just depressed that *I* will truly never know what it's like to squeeze life out of my sacred passage! ._.
Best asmr ever!
YOU DID IT AGAIN!! This has been and will always be the best channel on the internet. Greetings from an introverted internet-friend
Lost it at the Attenborough bit. Olly, you're a treasure. And Contra, keep up the sterling work.
Wow
Due to experiencing self loathing on a regular basis - not to this extent tf - this hit me in ways I did not expect. Time for some self care. Get off the fuckin' internet and actually go outside.  GEE THANKS NATALIE. LOOK WHAT YOU MADE ME DO.    (Seriously though, great video. All hail mother nature, the sexy beast she is)
This was a very good and remarkably compassionate treatment of a difficult subject. It might even be enough to reach some of these people through the ideological barriers they've built around themselves. Maybe that's too much to hope, though. :/  Anyway. Wonderful work, as usual! (And nice and somewhat... scary performances from your special guest star!)
This is amazing, you are amazing.
Nah dating apps were way better before I transitioned and admitted I was attracted to men. It was easy to find women and have deep and interesting conversations that lead to dates which lead to dating, now I’ve seen such a large sample size of dicks that I’m basically a dickologist and I’ve been exposed to the depraved extreme depths of masculine sexuality. But worst of all is the endless procession of dullness that they come out with. Which is not actually their fault, it’s what society and patriarchy have created and the apps reinforce. For me courtship in all forms is just boring, I don’t want to pursue or be pursued I want to have meaningful social relationships and for romance to spring from that. The sexist thing in the world is the sudden realisations two people share that leads to intimacy. The realisation that you could fuck, the realisation of romance, the realisation of love. Not the inherent dishonesty and weirdness of the chase. But the thing is that none of us need sex or romance. What we need is love and intimacy but that comes in many forms which are not romantic or sexual, but sadly our social consensus is that sex and romance are required in order to experience this.
that ending about the sea was weird and kinda sui fuel?
This is your best video yet.
I think some conflate beauty with absolute perfection, and while the people telling you you're beautiful may be sugar coating it a bit, I don't know if I'd conflate it with actually lying. Beauty is subjective, after all, and a lot of people who are beautiful to me are described as plain or ugly by others.   At any rate, I hope this video helps these guys. Coming around to accept yourself is one of the hardest things to do in my opinion, but once you find that acceptance, things get so much easier.
"I bake my own bread"... Okay, Roosh, first of all, how DARE you? This vicious mockery of anarchist culture must end!
Best video you've made since Autogynephelia, probably. I was uncomfortable and so engaged throughout. I think this is a full display of all your best analytic, comedic, technical, and empathetic skills in one video. Great job, Natalie. Bravo.
No, but for real Natalie, the production value and artistry of your content gets noticeably better and more intricate with every video
Patreon crew, what up!
i've accidentally closed this tab, and subsequently reopened it, about four times, and every time i got an advert for the same laundry detergent... odd targeting.
Now THAT was satisfying!  I’ve always felt sympathy for Incels, but their shitty behavior makes it so hard to feel that way for very long. I do wish more of them would develop healthier habits and realize that happiness is a possibility for them.
Roosh V truly is a modern Kropotkin
i've always liked your videos but these last few ones have been off the chain. you're so good
Let's not also leave out the gymcel, essentially the /fit/ (4chan's fitness board) version. I find that one particularly interesting since it's a group dedicated to improving their body composition, and accordingly physical attractiveness. Yet, they still have a similar mindset, often thinking it doesn't matter how good their bodies get, that they will still be doomed to their incel status.  Anyway, I've been noticing a LOT of people making videos about incels recently, from youtube bloggers to Vice to even television news organizations. I find it odd that there's so much about them all at once, like they're the hot new topic. Was this video really meant more as a response to this recent focus from all these different places, and you want to use this as a sort of "set the record straight" type of video essay, or was this a matter more of reacting to the same things those other groups were, but yours just took a bit longer to come out due to production?  Either way, this is a great video on the topic, and I think you might just help to crack through some shells with it. At least I hope so. It's tough to see these guys do this to themselves. I know I've had thoughts not entirely unlike some of the ones self-professed incels tend to have (although I've never let myself get to the point of straight-up misogyny) and it can be one hell of a brutal downward spiral. Especially if there isn't someone who get can get through to them. Which is VERY hard, due to the way they arrange the barriers that you mention in the video.  But yes, excellent video. But even more importantly than all that other stuff I said: The lighting on this one is SUPER top-notch! Keep stepping that light and color game up.
skulls are alive! until you die i guess...
becky is way hotter than stacey ... my ex girlfriend is called becky...
Olly's intro makes me uncomfortable!
I'd never heard of TTTT before.  I'm glad I never did.  Though it does remind me of how I quit my morbid curiosity with Drunken Peasants after discovering Natalie's channel and channels like it.  I didn't like what it was doing to me, and holy fuck, their blatant misogyny and gaslighting about it (not to mention the half-in / half-out transphobia and bigotry of all sorts.)
I'll be grabbing the snacks for this one. Never fails to be entertaining and informative.
Also great to hear that you're in a better mental state now than you were a few months ago Natalie! Much love. You're doing such great work.
So, the point I'm getting here is, everyone needs to turn off their computers and go deep sea diving?
I was so hoping you'd do something about incels. Your skill of rooting g out bullshit while also being compassionate to the seed of genuine pain that lays in the center of this thought process. Very well done. But if I may add to the discourse: people of any gender and orientation can be incels. I believe in the very core of this phenomenon is an intense self loathing centered on their percieved physical  unattractiveness. They aren't pretty enough, so no one could ever love them. Our society is obsessed with appearance and hosts indistry that makes billions of dollars be selling people on the idea that beauty is everything and they would t ever be beautiful without them. All genders are swamped with images and messages that tell them how they will never be good enough. Incels are what happens when this advertising is internalized and exaggerated by social anxiety and lack of any opposing experiences.
bless you and your interesting, brilliant, creative, and essential work.  Thank god you exist on Youtube.
"Let's talk about bone structure"  QUICK! Somebody get Foppington on the ca- Oh there she is!
Your point about the eroticism of the storm at 33:47 is well received.  I know someone who likes to go out in the rain, raising her fists and cheering when the thunderclaps arrive, thanking mother nature for being a sexy, sexy beast.
I'm so glad the Tiffany Tumbles memes continue - it is a genuinely hilarious voice/caricature.  Love you so much, your work is incredible!
Olly stop being scary ;A; you're too nice to be scary
fuck, this one hit close to home on a lot of different levels. great video (as ever) natalie, made loads of great points that I hadn't really considered before, particularly the similarity between incels and self-hating trans people
Your make up in this video is absolutely sublime
Honestly I think you might get to at least a few of these incel types with this video.
I think this is one of my favs :) The comparison to the trans online culture and the how it was made personally relatable was great. It made the video seem like an analysis of these incels as people and not anomalies that are completely unlike us. Not that pandering to misogynists is a massive virtue, but the ability of the video to maybe change a mind or two was great.
:( u do look great natalie  t. cis lesbian
This is very scary. Brilliant video. But very fucking scary.
I legit had an ASMR experience at 22:22.  Wow.
hearing olly say the word "release" in that voice made me deeply uncomfortable. thanks!
First month as a patron. Super duper excited to see my name in the credits!
Oh that's not how I pronounced femoid in my head.
oh. it's so big.
oh my god the introduction  the olly  the music  i can't deal with this lmao
Oh god, why did you have to get Olly to do that opening monologue?  My brain can only handle so many confusing feels at once!
I was about to sleep but never mind
Wooo!
I am the first veiw and like, I feel so special.
