Contrapoint anime anyone? :D
Literally still coming to this comment section just to check if someone dropped the name of that OP song
I feel the same way. While I’m CLEARLY not white, half of my cultural identity is WHITE AS FUCK!! Better than half, in truth.   I’ve fucked women from every race and culture. However, easily 6 in every 10 of them were white American women. Well, if you’re not a racist and live in America, how could that go down any other way?! Sure, I was an average basketball player throughout most of my youth. No matter how many lay-ups and 3-pointers I made, I doubt that I could have ever been more than an average basketball player. Around age 13 (or, as I started to make my own money...), I discovered HOCKEY. From the beginning, it was obvious to all that I had the potential to be a MUCH better than average hockey player. My biggest difficulty back then to reaching that potential was “being allowed” to play with other hockey players near me (who are mostly white men). To this day, it still remains my greatest difficulty. Were I born in Canada to a richer family, the NHL would have been a real possibility.   I could go on, but I feel I’ve made my point. For Natalie Wynn, it’s Rock ‘n Roll. For me, it’s hockey.
Contra your still an idiot   Africans sold there own people also we in the alt right condemn slavery we think its the worse decision our ancestors have ever done.  Even with the muslim birthrate declining they still have a higher birth rate than europeans(which the european birthrate is freefalling) and the middle east is very unpredictable a war could break out at any point bringing in even more refugees into europe and yes the crime rate that muslims commit does matter considering they commit most of the hate crimes, rape, murder.  China is nearly homogeneous The People's Republic of China (PRC) officially recognizes 56 distinct ethnic groups, the largest of which are Han, who constitute 91.51% of the total population in 2010. Ethnic minorities constitute 8.49% or 113.8 million of China's population in 2010.  India is a terrible example of diversity so is peru which kinda proves our point more diversity means lower I.q and more poverty.  Its literally been 300 years and blacks still commit most of the crime across the americas and european nations.
Thanks for expanding my viewpoint, I'm a bit more Kiity with a bat then a philosopher no matter how much I like logic and reason. Judging by the hate mail you have enemies. W. Churchill (anti-mazi WWII) said this about enemies.  You have enemies? Good. That means you''ve stood up for something, sometime in your life. To many people either partly believe the fascist lies or just do not want to take a stand. So you can be proud and we stand with you against this blatantly insane and inhumane ideology.
I come for the Contrapoints but stay for the outfits. #Slay
"I'm proud to be Asian", said nobody ever, because Asian is a grouping that most people from Asian cultures reject as overly simplistic and offensive.
* "You'd actually be a deranged maniac to actually want to argue with these pe...." [CUE DERANGED MANIAC (C'ept this is her non-deranged maniac Good Twin)] ....Love it; Plus Freya (despite representing awfulness) is darkly sexy.
you makes me lolz
Why do you think only white men are the only ones that are conservative? There are blacks, Asians, Hispanics, Indians, and homosexuals, and even trans who are conservative. If White Nationalists existed for the Right, like Charlie Kirk and Milo Yiannopoulos, why would Charlie had been seen hanging out with Candace Owens and Milo, being a Gay Jew, is married to a black man.
XD I love the Monty Python reference at the end
Anyone who thinks I'd get along with them and come willingly to their all-white dystopia is an emotion-driven mistake of a person who needs a swift slap across the face.
Dimagrafic shift? Is it happening? Dimagrafic shift Is happening.
What I find the most striking about the alt right, which simultaneously proves them to be what they are afrait to be is: that they don’t actually organize to live “white culture “ in meaningful ways thst would help the white community ( in its issues of loneliness, bad socialization, and all the other bs that produces mass murderers). Actually build community with purpose and meaning from the inside (not external meanings built on the existance of “others”).
You're my new favorite person.
america is not the most multicultural country out there
What the normal right that you falsley call alt right fears.
I just wanna know how many languages you speak and how many instruments you play, because you're hella talented.
parliament-funkadelic in a contrapoints video? me likes it
The ASMR again!  Dammit, Past Contrapoints, I'm gonna self-trepanate!
Shout out to T1J with that smooth voice over reading those comments
alt right and trump hype is dying in 2019, and it will in future years.
I’ve been struggling with my political viewpoint for a long time, mainly thanks to the radicalization of the internet, and I just couldn’t pick a side. See, i know a lot of anti-sjw shitlords who call me a feminazi simply for not being right and I always doubted my own opinions. But thanks to your videos i’m now confident in my political viewpoint and don’t have to feel bad about being a leftist anymore (not extreme left ofcourse). Keep up the work! You might actually save this generation.
More. More cowbell. <3
Old Norse 😭😭😭
There has been infinitely more repression and harassment against gamers by feminists than the other way around. Feminism is a serious problem for anyone that wants the freedom of expression and originality
The nords are dead and big government killed their culture
damn i love your nazi impersonation so much.
So, what is "white?"  Are Greek people white?  What about Italians and French?  American culture is nothing like those cultures.  Every color and culture has gay and trans people.  Native Americans are the only indigenous peoples to the Americas and they're not white.  I tan super easy, does that mean I'm not white in the summertime?  And what about the Russians?  They are white but also communist and socialist.  Asians are white, but they're not.  So, if white people got their own "nation" they still wouldn't be able to get along because they could never agree on who actually belongs there.  All I can see is a bunch of disgruntled idiots who just want to be angry at SOMETHING so they chose skin color.  They should call themselves what they really are - ignorant cowards who are too stupid to know how stupid they really are.
Officially 100% cuter with every new language you add to a video
God damn it. I'd say I'd lean more politically right and am sexually confused but watching your videos for the last hour I'm now extremely confused because all I want is to fuck your high heels off. what the fuck is happening to me contra
Ahhhh! Experiencing Gender Dysphoria by just listening to this after listening to the newer vids.
about the african-american music point, it doesn't only extend to those genres, Bad Brains (a full african-american hardcore punk band) was one of the pioneers of hardcore punk and are genuinely amazing musicians, in a scene where bad playing and off-rhythm drums and guitar are the standard. Bad Brains is also a great reggae band, showing their ability to play some of the fastest music you can find, while also playing some fucking amazing reggae.
I know this is an older video but I'd like to make the point the 1. Israel is not an ethnostate, in fact it's very diverse. 20% of it's population are Muslim and Christian Arabs, the population of Israel also includes Bedouins, Druze, Ethiopian Jews and so on and 2. Japan's policies of homogeneity and xenophobia for decades has left the country with a stagnant economy since the 1980's, high rates of suicide and of course an aging population that is retiring faster from the workforce than they can be replaced, because younger Japanese people don't have children at the same rate.
so.. the alt-right was justified in its fear?
I'm just waiting for my husband to look over his screen, see  Natalie in the "facshenfurter" costume, and ask what the hell I'm watching.
C. Marxist. I know what that means but want to interpret that as Sea Marxist.
Best anime
You are lumping everyone with the alt right. I do not advocate for ethnic cleansing, but I do not want burkas, oriental music and mosques on every steet. I sometimes like eating oriental food but I do not want their culture imposed on me. Also white people are for me more beautiful on average that any other race.   You people scream cultural apropriation when we enjoy aestetics of some culture but scream racist if we say that islam values suck. And no, I am not a defender of "traditional/christian values"  either. I am areligious, reasonably pro lgbt (im bi female) and pro feminism, but I do not believe in forced multiculturalism
Omae wa mou shindeiru. NANI?!?!?
Your nazi outfit is so... stylish
You play guitar too? Can you get any more talented???
Here in Peru we say that "quien no tiene de inga, tiene de mandinga" which means that if you are not mix raced from x and y ethnicity, you are from a and b.
i was just listening and heard c.marxists as sea marxists and... well, climate change is here. take to the high seas
I just subscribed and love your channel but please, I’m begging - no more Bob Seger.
Kebebby
that nazi cosplay is still worrisomely attractive
ｍａｘｉｍｕｍ　ｃｕｃｋｏｌｄｒｙ
😂😂😂😂😂😂😂😂😂😂😂😂😂😂😂
Damn.. those pesky jews wiped out old norse with their world order
The theory that the nihilistic dread of being left behind and the obsessiveness with eternal youth to prevent such inevitable death is the very foundation that founds all hatred and fear, is very promising. We are all having a mortality crisis 24/7, even if you think you're not (subconsciously you are🙂). So these people have dedicated their lives to cope with it this specific way.
Holy this that comment from "The Golden One"! Hahaha what a tool, that guy is.
Hearing Contra speaking Japanese made me crawl out of my skin lmao.
I'm someone who left academia a few years ago, for various reasons (mostly money reasons).  My area was Old Norse and Old English.  As I've been trying to become more informed on what the alt-right is, why there's a rise in white nationalism, etc., I've noticed that some people take Old Norse/Anglo-Saxon iconography and try to use it to say something about 'white culture' or 'western culture'.   This is obviously massively unsettling.  But, from an academic perspective, it's making me wonder whether I should try to get back into research in order to try to dispel some of these alt-right myths about medieval Europe.  There is so much historical evidence for multiculturalism (of a kind) happening in the medieval period.  Do these neo-Nazis realise that Vikings frequently traded with merchants in Baghdad?  And that often what was being traded were slaves -- often Anglo-Saxon slaves.  Indeed, Vikings had no sense of themselves being part of  'Western European' culture: either you were a Viking (in which case you were protected by law in their society) or you weren't (in which case you weren't even really considered human in the eyes of the law).  Viking culture is not something we should hold aloft as this historical bastion of something that Western Europeans should be proud of: it was nasty, insular and violent.
Are you acquainted with Ernest Becker's work? Your idea of existential dread being at the core of white nationalism is quite "beckerian".
Holy shit. This is the worst video and the weakest arguments. Lol.
MORE COWBELL! =^~^=
yeah "claims" of an ongoing refugee rampage... Happen to live in Sweden, happen to see the criminality having gotten ten times worse with my very eyes.  Maybe we all need to get away from dealing in such extremes eh? Like oh lets have a pure white ethno state, or oh the rape and crime epidemic is complete bogus.
Fun fact: the thing that wiped out Gaelic (not totally), old Norse, and just the Nordic culture in general wasn’t people of color. It was the British. You know, WHITE people.
Israel isn’t an ethnic-State.
The Alt-Right has a bizarre obsession with Japan.
Absolutely stoked with the consistent logic and articulation of your rationale.
"Learn More Japanese vocabulary." Translation: "Yes." wHeeZe
ahahahahaa "the nazi whisperer" asmr
you're like noam chomsky with a personality.
Spot on
Just an advice use an under skirt for that Loli its hurts my Eye
Let's hear that once more for the people in the back:  "There's a big difference between death and metamorphosis, and it takes a lot more than a couple million immigrants to kill a culture.  So, let's consider African-American culture as a story of some of the most glorious cultural perseverance in all [of] world history.    During the Transatlantic Slave Trade, Africans were ripped by force from their ancestral homeland, shipped to a different continent, placed in literal shackles, and sold as property. Drums (which were the musical centerpiece of their communal life) were forbidden by their white owners. Their language was replaced, they were converted to a new religion, and their genetic makeup was altered over generations of rape. They were about as defeated as a culture can be.   And yet, you can't stop a slave in the field from singing. Fast-forward to the 20th Century, and despite ongoing subjugation, Black Americans ushered in a century-long golden age of music and art that has spread across the world.   So don't tell me that a couple million immigrants mean the death of Europe. It could literally be a thousand times worse and European culture would still survive in some form or another."
american music... blues/jazz in particular changed the world for the better for sure, right on, sister!!
cognitive dissonance and political schizophrenics everywhere. only race i am aware of is the human one.
shared!
Thumbs up for 2:00 through 2:15   😂I was legit crying at how funny that bit was😂   Quickly becoming my fav tuber (even beyond Sargon)... I get a lot of radically different fakes from you on hot button topics
Well if the whites want an ethnostate. I have the solution. For the low low price of 1billion pounds of gold. Ill give them the deed to mormon heaven. EthnoWORLD who's ready to ?
I've never seen a trans so be so entertaining and brilliant
You _literally_ killed me with the intro! I knew I *loved*  your content... so now I need to find a new superlative... thanks! :P
Good news Germany if things go the way they are looking you will no longer be exclusively associated with Nazism
T1J cameo gets me really moist
I try to be ethnically sensitive at all times.  That said, look at 6:32, holy shit there is an "Anal" ethic group in India hahhahahahahahahaahaa...
is there anything CP can't do? absolute queen.
you look spicy as hell
Love this girl!!!! BEAR MY CHILDREN!!!!
Wtf
What the fuck. Europe isn't the same as America. Europe is already multicultural and diverse, and yes cultures change but when you mixe German culture or Hellinism with Islam is only getting worse like pissing on wine doesn't change the wine in a positive way it just making it shit. Also immigrants bring down native wages and it is true that they rise the crime rate. "China is diverse" *93% Han Chinese* . Europe for Europeans. Oh HAIL liberty.
Bad video. I still want my ethnostate.
As a native Danish speaker I resent the notion that Norse tongues don't exist anymore. But that's just me. And I guess modern Norse doesn't count as Norse because... Linguistic development? DAMN YOU LANGUAGE. DAMN YOU!
great nails...just sayin...
... you dont think being wary of Islam, a global, extremely virulent religious cult of violent extremism and oppression of women, is somewhat wise?
I hear HBomberguy!!!!!!!!!
2:05, this is why you are a hero
11:17 ‘I am rock-’n’-roll!’ Well hot patootie, bless my soul—I really love that rock-’n’-roll!
MORE COWBELL
Hbomberguy does great voice overs. Lmao.
Can any non-nazis explain why Nazis think Jews are controlling legit everything.
Fucc nazis
One minor correction... Papua New Guinea is actually the most diverse country in terms of both ethnic and linguistic diversity. Once again, America is not actually #1. Not even in the top 50. You're still #1 for incarcerating your own citizens though... so... there's that.
I generally agree with your opinion about ethno-states, but I do have to say that Israel's case is somewhat different, for the simple reason that when Israel was founded, the Jewish people litteraly came back from the brink of extinction. And although the first Jewish settlers in Israel came there before the holocaust, it also has to be said that antisemitism also existed way before the holocaust and therefore many people wanted to escape it. And obviously the situation here is fucked in a million other ways, but I do feel like there is a reason to have an independent state for a nation that's been demonized all around the world for litteraly thousands of years
I'm speechless. Thank you for this video.  I've rarely seen a movement analysis so accurately explained.
I couldn’t watch more than 3 seconds
contra is best girl
What the Alt-Right Fears:  *intelligence *compassion *the feminine
That intro though
The only thing that truly scares the alt right is rising ammunition prices..
It just occurred to me, I would hate to have to argue with Natalie.  She is way better at it than me, and is also smart and informed.  How do you beat that?
your guitar playing had all the waifu wanting dweebs sad they have no skills
Contra serving german and japanese as if it was nothing
I think I fell in love you Natlie and I'm a cis woman who is super straight and I'm a bit confused with my orientation now lol you are both a handsome guy ( I know would hate me to say this) while at the same time very beautiful too! and most importantly sooooooo damn smart! I learnt from you a lot and I now know how to defend in my debate with my colleagues ( doing PhD in English Lit rn) and Alt-Right ppl as well. WEll I guess I must be sapio-sexual now lol
Hi, Languagefag here Ironic Old Norse was apparently killed out by English due to a one world government believing people are equal In reality English was an amalgamation partially due to imperialism and invasion by the Norse, French, Latins, etc.
2:12 dick alert
"There is a big difference between death and metamorphosis" Cannot be better said.  When people do not have enough confidence in their ability to weather change and think with their own minds about the well-being of all humanity, they retreat to old ways, to tribes, and to sects, mental constructs inherited from our caveman past, in which there is only us versus them, and all resources are finite and up for grabs. In these mental safe spaces, they feel feeble without a tribe behind them, unaware that greater humanity itself is is the largest tribe that can provide solace as long as you care to love it.   To these people, the difference between death and metamorphosis is invisible indeed, for in their small-tribe mentality, the natural change of that tiny fragment of the greater group of humanity amount to death, for they cannot see beyond their tiny, tiny "tribe" they feel so comfortable to just sit inside and be blind to all things else.
"はい" "nein" "はい" "nein" "はい" "nein" LMAO, you make me fall out of my chair...very hard to not draw attention to myself listening to you at work.  I love it!!!!!
They accuse you of being negative things they themselves are contra. Their existences are ironic jokes.
Your mother and I are to blame for not showing you enough love. Please forgive us everyone. We failed our son.
Literally 96% of Portuguese people are white. So that one Fascist that complained about "Portugal disappearing" is a fucking idiot.  Lady, I literally know 10 non-white people and my school is one of the less segregated in my whole district.
MORE COWBELL
I’d also prefer metamorphosis rather than death. Thank You for highlighting the differences between the two! Keep looking Up baybay!🌌
“OMAE WA, MOUSHINDEIRU!” “0:45!?!?”  Original clip:  https://m.youtube.com/watch?v=vxKBHX9Datw
You saved me sis 😭
I'm not scared of you, because you wont reproduce say whatever you want but the future is ours, and there's not a thing your latex shitshow can do to stop it. Dont have any issue with your lifestyle though not a lot of us do. As long as you dont hurt us expressing it.
Italian from Italy here, and everything you said proves correct in terms of what happened to Italy historically. We were invaded and colonized by pretty much every culture under the sun, including early Northern European populations and Arabic populations, and guess what? Yeah, our cultures changed. But they survived. You might call that evolution, even. The people we would call “invaders” became a part of our demographic, their cultural traits they brought over here became part of our culture, and we became richer because of it.
Well, most rap and hip hop is degenerate. Talking about drugs, prostitution, and violence fits that description.
Your german is very good in comparision with other people imitating german language. And yes, it feels a little bit sad that the first thing most people think when they hear german is the little brown man with the square mustache but it´s also very funny to make nazi jokes with it. Jawohl! So ist es!
H Bomber guy LOL
White nationalist: “But my plastic crucifix with the white Jesus told me so.”
Anti SJW here.  I'm taking every word you say as ironic.  It's fun.
cuckcuckcuckcuckcuckcuckcuckcuckcuckcuckcuckcuckcuckcuckcuckcuckcuck
Look who thinks they are smart and brainwashed af
why can't there be more leftist weebs :(
10:11-10:18 I see that picture was taken in Hungary. *sigh* Nationalism doesn't make it easy for me to be proud of my nationality.
Amazingly, if you had spoken with a more feminine voice, you could have totally passed even back when you made this. Awesome.
I wish I knew how to make music.  Sure I can paint and stuff but really I wanna rock and roll.  Well I can still enjoy others talents
2:05 INTRODUCING, Freya's Good Twin! You need to bring the Anti-Freya back and give her a name, Natalie.
I love Hbomberguy's lines where he just can't keep it together
More ASMR content please
can we just give them the south and be done with it?
I forgot how awesome the musical ending was.
Ok but were you legit playing all those instruments?  & speaking all those languages??  *swoon*
Do you know German? Your pronunciation of German words is surprisingly good
Hbomberguy always has had the best laugh ever.
Nice vibrato.
7:25 Never mind the C Marxists, Zachary boy. They'll never get it together. It's the A and B Marxists you should be worried about.
I thought these ideas were the basis of WW2 - and they lost decisively.
Dein Deutsch ist ziemlich gut, ich bin beeindruckt. Even if it hurts a little that my language/country mostly if not only ever appears in your videos in relation to Nazis while we also had some of the greatest thinkers for enlightenment in history I think its cool that you use it, multilingualism is awesome for broadening ones horizon.
I think their fears are valid, white people know best what happen when you let 'other people' into your country. The indegenious people of the North and South America, the natives in Australia and New Zealand - they are cautionary tales for white people on not letting history repeat itself.
But there is a difference between America and Europe. America has no unified "culture" or "people". I agree that people that fight for keeping America "white" are stupid, as white is a conglomerate of loads of different identities and peoples, and there's no reason why people from all different cultures and skin colours can't unite under the same flag. However, Europe may not WANT immigration: ie, Bulgaria or Hungary, who kept closed borders for the entirety of the Soviet era, which is a long tim. As a Bulgarian, with one of the fastest declining populations in Europe, immigration CAN cause major social incohesion in society - I mean, we still haven't been able to integrate the gypsies, and they've been here for centuries. There's really no reason to argue for multiculturism in Europe - it hasn't ever been that way, and it's fine for people to resist this change.   TL;DR/ America and Europe are different, you can't use the same arguments   Also why am I writing something that no one cares about at 2 am in the morning when I'm meant to be writing my essay help
Those people that say whites deserve an ethnostate because all other races have them, fail to see the fact that most other races don't have ethnostates.
Not enough cowbell!, great video, but it needs more cowbell.
Its sad you can no longer tell what is and isn't a "joke" until some edgelord pulls a brenton terrant...
1:19 The user “Adolf Himmler” uses a picture of Adolf Eichmann as his avatar, which seems like a significant trade down.
2:06 Can't wait to see another well-written, well-argued, entertaining vi- DAYYYYUM
singing a song by a black guy in an SS uniform seems a little... bad.       it just feels... wrong idk how else to say it.
the real question is: why is it even wrong do you want to live among exclusively people of your own race?   like obviously things like slavery or wrong, oppression is wrong, Rachel hierarchy and Supremacy Tsar wrong... But I fail to see how an ethnostate is in anyway and negative thing, regardless of what race that ethnostate is
You are fucking fantastic
Why have a multi ethnic state (china doesn't count in the same what 2nd Generation Germans in England are indistinguishable from Brits) when you can have a unified homogeneous one? Every example of a multicultural society there is segregation. Even America which has been multi ethnic for almost 300 years still has massive race problems. Races are different from each other. One is not superior over other but they are different. It is incredibly naive to think otherwise for up until recently every race was evolving and developing in extremely different environments. These differences which all create segregation in a multicultural society. There will always be tension because it is human nature to be tribalistic. For most that is, clearly a tiny minority such as yourself are exempt but you're also not a good example for the average male mind.
I find the videos of you dressed up as a nazi to be the most fun and challenging.
Can you actually speak German?
When you make the incels gang up on you, you  know your making a splash.
Arguing is both smart and justified.
Conservatism/atheism should be illegal.
Damn This is all the stuff the churchland shooter was talking about in his manifesto
Lmao I just learned what kawai means
Primordial fear. Sea monsters, that's at the heart of it, sea monsters of the deep subconscious sea of the Ubermind. Ah F*&$ it. Gnolls, FEED, MY CHILDREN, FEED!
If the concept of whiteness is artificial and unstable I should better check my white privilege frequently to see if it's still there.
I can't find the why white nationalism is wrong video :(
The point on black Americans is such a great one about our perseverance.   Great video.
Alt-right have a bully mentality and they are stuck in immature mindset.Children are known to hate anything that is different then them.It reminds me of the movie Mean Girls were everyone hangs out with people who are similar to them.
I honestly don't even think it's genuine panic or fear that these people have; I think it's just a perfect blend of stupidity, sadism, insecurity and boredom.
"In the long term, it's just gonna be fine!" Said the jew in 1920s Germany...Said the Native American in the 18th century...Said the North African Christians in the 6th century... We should've learned from history that cultures DO NOT MIX! They eradicate each other! Not because that's good or bad but because that's how nature operates! Amorally, evolutionarily and violently....
Funny thing about Egypt as an example. Egyptian culture changed dramatically in the past 2000 years. Also Egypt itself was never really static to begin with, that just the human tendency to simplify history into a monolith, similar to how people see all arabs or all asians as the same.
Taking the immigrants and refugees also has negative effects we took some of them here in Finland and look at all enrichment it brought https://yle.fi/uutiset/osasto/news/foreign_nationals_suspects_in_one-fifth_of_sexual_offenses/9252437  https://m.youtube.com/watch?v=Dhr-i7Rpcjg&t  https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Immigration_to_Finland#Representation_of_nationality_in_crime_statistics
10:12 except those people fleeing were already in Europe. If a person is truly fleeing for their life they would settle in the first safe place they make it to. To get into Hungary you have to go trough Serbia, Bulgaria or Romania at least. Does not sound like a person is fleeing when there trying to get into a country that started putting up fences to keep them out when there's other options.
You're so fucking funny!
I know the ASMR is ironic but I got tingles I never asked for or expected.
HAHA! 😂 Your videos are great!
Why did she put on this fake man voice for her older videos?
"You can't tell me that white nationalism will protect my culture because my culture is half black." Yes yes yeeessss.
"What about speaking Old Norse? Or countless other languages that were molded together due to this 'one world government, all people are equal' concept".   I'd be tempted to point out that Old Norse never died, it evolved. Icelandic is still very close to Old Norse, it evolved with not much in the way of external influence, but it still evolved, because that's what languages do. This isn't a good example to use of a language dying out due to some globalist multilcultural malarky.   Maybe one way to frame it: Icelandic is the HD Remastered version of Old Norse. I mean, the Old Norse we tend to look at these days, like when looking at the old Viking epics, it's all the Old Icelandic branch of Old Norse anyway.
America can teach Europe?? Pfff Russia can teach the world. We don't give a fuck about race and nation.  Ohh you forget about USSR. While there was racism in America, we had internationalism. And yet, the idiots from the United States called the USSR "evil empire". It is very fun to see how now almost all the advanced countries of the world have socialism today the same as the USSR had in the 70s.
love it. fear is at the core.
I'm not quite sure how to describe my sexuality, but I'll say most people consider me a straight cis man (my understanding of the word "cis" is credited to Natalie). I've been opened minded most of my life... or so I thought. To be honest, I just didn't understand trans people and the issues that they face. I feel like with every moment I listen to Natalie, my eyes are opened wider, as well as my heart. She's intelligent, funny, coherent, and just all around a beautiful person. Give her a chance- I promise you won't regret it. (PS: this isn't precisely a video about Trans issues; all the same, it's a good one, and if you watch her other videos about that specific topic, and you're ignorant like I was, then you will most assuredly benefit from the viewing)
I fucking love Natalie casually speaking Japanese better than me
"My culture is not white culture. It's American culture. You can't tell me that white nationalism will protect my culture because my culture is half black." This video is filled with quotable quotes but this one takes the cake! Subscribed.
Hi
You do know that Antifa are fascists as well, right?
Could we please be clear that there are many forms of nationalism... Que many Asian and middle east nations... I guess the point I'm trying to make is that there are things that make good observations in even the worst ideologies. The trick is to not gobble down all of the bathwater along with the baby. FYI I'm an unapologetic, straight 'white' man with a biracial daughter. It does bother me that its taboo for me to be declare I'm a proud white man. Doesn't mean I'm a nazi... its certainly an interesting cluster fuck going on right now. But don't be surprised to be seen as a hypocrite if you advocate rules for thee but not for me!
I love how the Iron Cross round your neck turned pink
Ok who does the read outs for those comments, cuz he's always killing it.
Thanks so much. The work you do is A++++.
Wait a minute! Is that the same as my alice in wonderland costume? at the end? whoa
8:06 does he not know iceland exists
Well one argument is White people are not an homogenus group It is a reason tvere is a border beetween us and sweden
Why do alt righters hate muslims when muslims hate jews because of isreal
00:00 it's a trap
I'm going to be the devil's advocate for a sec, but, this is pretty much what I see nowadays in my country, and other european countries: Those nations that accept this mass immigration, they don't care about their own people. We have homeless citizens, living in the streets, while the government is putting funds to help people because they just had the balls to get here with what little means they had. I kind of understand the fear of these people: They don't feel protected by their governements, the people from elsewhere, the strangers with a trully different culture, are getting that help. (plus the fearmongering doesn't help, with the fact (or maybe fake news (god this era of media is shit)) that some immigrants gets out of court free of charges when they rape our citizens, or some live in requisitioned hotels) I wouldn't say they are right to believe that "White culture is going to die due to the islamic invasion !" (I mean, they already invaded eastern europe once, and they're still here), but their feeling of fear, caused by those changes, and feeling of distrust for their governements is somewhat understandable, I guess
asmr about Jewish question HAI
More cowbell pls! 💛
texas?
Lmfao, I’m sure many alt-righters are thoroughly jealous of the fact that your German is spot on. Hahahha
You bring up good points. But the rape and other crimes illegal migrants have done in Europe are still vastly ignored and people are not held accountable :/
Cool!
What are with these comments from the "alt right" or "anti sjw" or similar and they think this person has good points and they just love this Chan and they didn't think about these things till they listened to this Chan. ???? I have to call bs. I've listened to a few of the vids and she hasn't given any good arguments against "right wing" or non leftist views.  She even talks about it in this vid. But just no. They are either absolutely fake as fake can be or fake.
I hate xenophobia and sociopolitical reaction, but I admire nationalism and state-led protection of local traditions threatened by global capitalism. I am a socialist and civil nationalist.
I think the problem is the white people are the only ones tying culture to race. India isnt an enthno state, its made up  of insane amounts of various groups who hate one another on a level like catholtics and prods
You rock! Funny and informative.
who's the woman reading at 7:30?
<3
“ if there is one thing we can learn europeans tho...” that is the point. You Guys in America have so much more land, where as we in the netherlands (where i live) kust dont have the space for said refugees, thus it becomes a problem....
Mädle yasss!!!
0/10 needs more cowbell
watching your vids in reverse chronological order - damn you can shred
Rightists use a small list of retorts which they think are arguments but are actually stupid complaints:  - They simply call you diluted. - You're brainwashed by a globalist leftist plot.  - You ARE a globalist leftist goon.
You are awesome!  This is exactly what the world needs. Thank you for doing your part for the revolution of ideas.  Luvit!
Dammit the ASMR actually good
Talks about diversity in China, and shows that 93% are Chinese. Ok...
do all these people panicking about white genocide not realise that almost all of the ethnic groups they're citing as evidence that ethnic groups can be wiped out were wiped out by white europeans???? also a lot of europe was at one point a white ethnostate (excluding all the slaves kidnapped from abroad building everything and doing most of the labour when they were around), during the dark ages, and it was the most brutal and savage period in human history, between the end of the (incredibly multicultural) roman empire in 500 and about 1800 when the enlightenment happened and europeans ditched the bible and started "discovering" medicine, maths and science that had been prevalent in the middle east 3000 years ago but was illegal because of the church, punishable as 'witchcraft' or 'heresy', and midwives, doctors, chemists and mathematicians were all burned at the stake if discovered. Until about then, northern europeans were actually the least intellectually advanced people in the world, equal maybe with some more violent tribes of central africa or south america (though not as advanced in medicine, astronomy and maths as these practices were all treasured in indigenous cultures) and muslim doctors and academics coming into contact with french and british soldiers/monks during the crusades were profoundly disturbed by how savage and incapable of basic human hygiene and literacy they were (they documented all of this very well while northern europeans were spreading the plague and rolling around in the mud).
Some points to you, know this video had been done ages ago... You used Hungarian images when you made some point about some European cultures have first time facing large migration. Nope. Europe history including Hungary in fact is full of migration, also the society reacted way better than the government at the immediate crisis. I would say fear of this existential crisis had been used to gain political advantage - and with a very expensive campaign. The whole anti-immigrant campaign of Hungarian government had been more costly than the pro-Brexit campaign (and well, large amount of English - as mostly England is so popular - ate the lies too). The funny thing is - the old far right party shifted to more acceptance, while the old liberal party in power now is far right in many aspect.
Yay! HBomb makes an appearance!!
Didn't change my mind. Shitty "points."     Join the 40% club
It's extremely funny to read their comments, in the video and here. They go great lengths to shame their own race with such stupidity.
Your German is actually pretty good, apart from the obligatory mangled ü of course.
Excellent video, mate. There is much to debate here and I cannot say that I agree with most of your arguments, but very seldom do we get an argument at all from a liberal about such issues, and your video is full of them.  Keep up the good work. Just got yourself a patreon.
I bet their grandparents probably fought nazis and then these people turn into the ones their ancestors fought
More cowbell!  Oh, and we have a word for things that don't change. We call them "dead". :-)
I wonder if fear of the death of the "white race" is somehow a subliminal dread and guilt passed down the centuries of a comeuppance for the cultures and peoples destroyed or uprooted by white nations.
Listen to what Malcom X said about saying African Americans.
It’s pretty ironic that AR/WN/NN groups have the most deeply engrained sense of feels over reals than any another political group they hate
As a linguistics enthusiast, I facepalmed at that guy talking about Old Norse. Old Norse didn't die out- it evolved into modern Swedish, Danish, Norwegian, Gutnish, Elfdalian, Icelandic and Faroese. People still "speak Old Norse" in a sense; it didn't go anywhere, it just changed. That's how language works everywhere - it constantly changes and evolves.
One of the things that consistently confuses me about cultural preservation is that people who value a central cultural identity as superior tend to be the sort who believe strongly in the principles of natural selection, especially in terms of propagation of certain blood characteristics, and equally invested in the idea of applying those principles to cultural systems. But given that worldview, doesn't the fact that, old Norse (for instance) and the associated cultural elements have died out, therefore imply it must have been inferior because it failed to compete? I can understand the argument that the desire is to preserve what one is, and they tend to mythologize the history of what they are, but I would think the (notedly fictionalized) history presents a case of proven inferiority under those assumptions. I'd instead think that the reflection really suggests strongly that the 'what you are now' is a better focus than 'what you were' given that 'what you were' failed. It's an inherently not rational position to occupy in the first place so of course an internal contradiction is not an effective argument, but I find it surprising and a little scary that the mythology as a support for the pre-existing belief structure hasn't been replaced by something more cogent in modern interpretations.
This creature doesnt engage any of the points - saying that culture cannot be saved is NOT the same as saying it shouldnt be saved. Also cultures changing by internal process is NOT rhe same as changing by invasion, assimilation, integration, ettc - external forces  Why should we preserve any other culture and not our own? WHy should we defend any other culture and not our own?
Why are there no SJWs in asia or africa or any non-white countries? x)
EVERY population estimate admits that Europeans/whites will greatly decline in numbers, almost everywhere. No handwaving around that
only good parts is when him/her speak german
truly, muslims wouldnt be so forgiven of him/her
"whiteness" is artificial..? lol is "blackness artificial" too?
Great video Natalie, as always. It's no surprise to me that you have a strong backround in philosophy. When I see your videos I am reminded of the incredible social power of thought and argument sharpened through philosophy and, in your case, a good dose of communication savoir-fare. Congrats for real.
It is intellectually dishonest of you to show statistics that are OVER A DECADE OLD. Not only are whites decreases as percentage but ALSO AS TOTAL # , 197m in 2016 to projected 178m in 2060. It's hard to respect some one that has to cite outdated statistics to prove their point. You cherry pick your statistics to try and prove your point, shame on you.  CURRENT STATISTICS>>> https://www.census.gov/content/dam/Census/library/publications/2018/demo/P25_1144.pdf
I might not agree with you in everything (very scarce things in fact) but looking at your progress as a youtuber is quite interesting to me as a digital marketer, this makes me even more interested in keep looking through your channel.
😂best ending evar😂
You don’t live in the most multicultural country in the world.
Whenever I want to recommend one of your videos, I re-watch it first, then can't resist having a few more a few more. I didn't think I needed to watch this one again, but I did, cuz music at the end, oh yeah.  You lift me up. I'll love you forever.
Me acabo de enamorar, quisiera respirar el aire a tu alrededor.
How many languages do you inow?!?! Or was recorded?
I have such a strong hatred for how the alt-right uses Norse Paganism and Heathenry. As a far-left, non-binary Norse Pagan, I'd like to point out that the views espoused by the alt-right and Nazis are not held by most Heathens, as it is very strongly against what the Old Norse believed in.
0/10 not enough cowbell.
video summary: leaving their bedrooms
Purely white culture has been dead for a thousand years, killed by Christianity mainly. The alt right is a bit late to the party
That song at the end tho. Too good.
Wait shit as a Fascist my feathers have been rustled
That asmr part.... I'm laughing tears!
Wealthy Republicans r using racism to con M&L income ppl to vote in the best interest of the wealthy. FEAR is all they have to sell bc let’s face it, “vote republican: give up some of ur income, wealth, and power to the rich. 1 Day it will trickle down, if u wait patiently long enough.” just doesn’t sell too well. Instead, they incite fear and anger of other groups of M&L class ppl w/the hopes of distracting them from what the wealthy, especially on the right, r doing and getting enough M&L class suckers to vote republican that they win power and control. But the problem w/scapegoating is that even if we could make all non-whites leave, the scapegoating doesn’t stop. They just find new ways of dividing white ppl. In the early 1900’s, Americans were racist toward every new group of immigrants; Irish, Italians, Germans, Catholics, etc. Most had little to their name, knew some or no English, were said to bring disease and crime, were not welcome or hired by some businesses, treated poorly by some Americans, often lived in certain areas of the city w/other families of the same nationality, etc. Wealthy republicans don’t push religious freedom. They want a country based on the beliefs of the Republican evangelicals and force all Americans to adhere to their views. They want small gov bc no wealthy greedy corrupt business owner wants a cop on the block to enforce the rules or a gov protecting labor from the exploitation of the capitalists. They want gop tax cuts and the privatization of the socialist programs for M&L classes bc they r a good return on investment and it will give them more control. For example, they’d like segregated schools to prevent whites from seeing other races as just like themselves, worthy of equality and voting Dem as well as indoctrinating children early w/disinformation and propaganda. Dems aren’t completely blameless w/today’s income/wealth inequality and we certainly need campaign finance reform, however, they do more for the M&L classes, don’t go as far, aren’t as greedy, or lacking a conscience as much as republicans. Wealthy republicans r like addicts. They r willing to harm the whole (the country) for their individual fix of money and power. As more and more money has shifted from the M&L classes to the top, that has resulted in less spending money for M&L classes, loss of some jobs, and a lower gdp. Basing policy on religious beliefs, or anything other than facts and science, will never result in the best outcomes. Their agenda isn’t sustainable long-term and would leave the US unprepared, sicker, less educated, and w/a whole lot of the societal ills we see today which correlate w/income/wealth inequality compared to other wealthy countries. Our income/wealth inequality is similar to 1920’s-30’s when our ancestors elected FDR, a progressive Dem, a Democratic socialist VP for at least 1 term, and Dem controlled congress. Dems were in control of WH, congress, and, for a while, the Supreme Court more times than not which brought the income inequality down from 1932-1980 and Reaganomics. I hope today’s voters make the right choices so we repeat what our ancestors did, which was very successful, instead of what Italy (Mussolini) and Germany (Hitler) did around the Great Depression, which didn’t work out so well for them until later.
You should remake a video like this in light of the NZ tragedy. Not telling you what to do, just noticing similarities my friend ❤
Is that video gone?
You got a new subscriber
I think it's really unsettling that Nazism is still so closely linked to German nationality, like, we are good now, there's no more Nazis here these days than most other places. Heck, in light of the current political landscape, I'd say we are on the lower half of the spectrum.
I'm surprised I haven't seen any comments here about how subtly brilliant the implications lighting are.  Nice job
They will turn on you
6:40 I have to point that "mestizo" means in Spanish "mixed", as in "having ancestors from both ethnicities". In Peru and most of LA there was a system of ethnic toleration in which a lot of mixing happened due to marriage (and on the more brutal cases, to rapes, not going to deny that). Most of the population on those countries are, therefore, "mestizos", as they have ancestors from both natives and Spanish colonists.
1:58 They are the shit on the otaku. I mean, the point is enjoying manga and anime (something I do, by the way) but these people... they are just full of hate for whatever stupid conspiracy they want to believe. Which is stupid. Sincerelly, I can hope that some female anime characters come to live to kick the shit out of them (nah, just kidding, though everytime I read or listen to any of these toxic fans, I just want to round-kick them, do a lion combo and then finnish them with a Kamehameha).
Gotta say. I bought into this stuff pretty hard (not extreme or anything nazi-like) and I was pretty fearful of what's to come. But this was comforting and a good change of pace, thank you.
OMG you speak Japanese too?? Just how clever are you exactly...?
10:45 "In the long term, it's going to be fine."  And how do you know that?  Are you a time traveler?
Oh my god your drag singing voice is the worst
Cw2 plz
Garter-belt AND thigh-high boots......Anastasia Blu will be suing you for hotness-copyright, if she were around.  Damn-you.
I was genuinely afraid I was gonna disagree with this. But then I remembered I'm not alt-right, I'm not really even pop-right. Like I was afraid something would come totally off the wall, and I'd think "what no," and then oh no I'd suddenly be a Nazi (because we're all literally Hitler online). But they're all reasonable points that I've mostly thought before. None of these are even far-left statements. I really wish people would stop saying to "be afraid" of you because it makes me scared to watch your videos, like I'm on guard against being brainwashed. You just say some facts, and I remember that I don't have to accept fully automated gay space socialism just to accept that culture changes over time, and that other people also think this is okay and that you don't have to accept every point of someone's agenda.
God do you speak all language? You so amazing!
"is this the sword of truth which speaks nothing but truth"  _"i'm afraid it's"_  *"the pure white European nation never existed,multi-culturism and diversity have always been the default of civilizations since the dawn of humanity"*  _"SHUT UP! SHUT UP!"_
I like how she actually learned some of the language just for this video 😂
1:35 'Moderate Islamist'. LOL  As a Muslim, I am not a big fan of moderate Muslims, ones in my home country at least. They think the only way to fight Islamic extremism is to uphold the status quo.  But, as much as I diss them, they are certainly not extremists. Islamists are Muslims who want their countries to be ruled by Sharia law, regardless of the existence of non-Muslim citizens. Surely, they are not anything but moderate!
11:18 Needs moar cowbell! And sexy nazis for that matter! Or better yet, furry nazis!
I get harassed a lot on Twitter, more by Bernie supporters than Trump supporters, although both hate me. The irony is, I’m very progressive but just understand that we can’t have all we want tomorrow & not keeping Trump out of the White House would set us moving backwards, which is worse than moving forward incrementally. I’d love if we could become the society depicted in Star Trek tomorrow, but you can’t have that much change that quickly (thus, Original Trek isn’t set in 2019.) If we had Hillary, we’d be moving forward, and Hillary has proven in the past her ability to change on her on and respond to her constituents. So, which a lot of people out their think I’m the dreaded “centrist,” I’m not. I’m telling you this so I can let you know the background of why I am bummed I didn’t discover this channel a few years ago. Also, my thesis for my history BA was “The Unsung Heroes of Hip Hop: Rap From Africa to America,” so I especially love the part of this that showed just how African culture endured. I’m lily white. My name, which I chose for myself is Siobhán, Gaelic for the name my mom gave me, Joan. Gaelic, almost a dead language, but despite bigotry from the same people who hate black people, or who also hate me for being a Lesbian, Irish culture isn’t dying. You can keep old traditions alive without being a racist ass. So keep up the good work. I have lots of catching up to do on your channel. 🖖🏽
You're SO AWESOME!!! INTELECTUAL CRUSHHHH!!! AND AMAZING PERSON!!! YOU GO GIRLLLLLL!!!!! QUENNNN!!!! ❤️❤️❤️❤️❤️❤️❤️😍😍❤️
Europe doesn't need to look to America for an example, American culture is nothing to be proud of.
Let's restore Neanderthal DNA!!! They were pretty good on women's rights!!!
Alt-Reich = Racist POS
You're informative, witty, and entertaining :) Kudos!
I thought Japan is scared of others since you Nuked them..but to these psychopaths Nazis is a good thing.
You seem quite fond of white european culture to hate political movements that support european heritage.  I wonder if this entire channel is a giant satire of the left. Poes law i guess.  oh well, maybe it is to expose as many normies as possible to nazi propaganda. Who knows.
OMG just noticed you put the music in the description! Thank you so much!  Edit: Having Wagner play at 02:04 was pretty genius
I totally ship you and The Golden One
I should have liked this more than I did. Your singing wasn't that great in this one. I guess I like your later voice better.
newgrounds is still a thing? wtf...
This is the epitome of small-world-syndrome. This planet is massive! There is more than enough room for everyone to have what they want. If an already vast majority white country elects to remain that way, that's okay! Some parts of our world will be caramel coloured. Some will be Jew only. Some asian only. Some white only. Some african only. Some parts will have all different colours coexieting but not interbreeding, like many colour strands of rope all plaited together. And with all of this, there will still be uncomprehendably massive wildernesses, and stretches of the galaxy still left untouched. THIS WORLD JUST KEEPS GOING AND GOING. LET PEOPLE HAVE THEIR SPACE.
Dein Deutsch ist recht gut
You are a breath of fresh air
thanks for counting Perú
I started watching this channel about a week ago, and have been binge watching all the videos in no particular order. Seeing an old video before your transition, and then fast forwarding to now, is a super cool experience because I get to see not only your channel grow and improve from good to great to amazing, but I get to see you evolve as a person. Some aspects of your persona changed when you changed your body  (obviously) but your core is still the same kickass youtuber, and I think that's what cis people (such as myself) sometimes have trouble grasping; a change in pronouns doesn't mean an upheaval of the person you've always known. Thanks for being awesome, and giving introspection to thousands!
You're very beautiful!!❤❤❤
I think fear for the culture is a rationalization. The primal fear is of existence, financial. Then there are the fast changes of culture which just provide the tone of the fear but not the centre.
Fuucckkk mee these dammnnn tiimmeesss
I'm used to her more modern videos, so when she walked in in the uniform I was like "Damn, what doesn't Natalie own?"  Then she spoke and I imploded.
More cowbell!
Next time one of those sad white cases tells you any of their incongruous shite, let them know Wotan is the All-father, not just the some father. I betcha their little white heads will explode...
Boy you play the Rocknroll better than myself! Of course I agree with you in EVERYTHING GG ALLIN! Keep on enlightening Nazis sweet momma!
That song at the end was really cool! Did you make it... He said two years after the video wad published...
China is 93% Han Chinese its an Ethnostate and India is about 72% indo Aryan it's certainly getting there if they make a effort the endless violence diversity has brought to India can end. You make false statements throughout the video and have no moral compass, Whites deserve to exist and eastern Europe will save our race by standing up to your cultural Marxism and degeneracy. I can only hope for revolution in the west against your poorly reasoned insanity.
Anyone I disagree with is alt right
You know they all have bad facial hair and body pillows.
Sad to see lhi05 at 4:51, I appreciated him because he translated many TFS videos to spanish
urgh. excactly my point: look, nobody cares for your weird understanding of what european/western is supposed to be. you have to take monk and mingus from my cold dead hands. or die trying.
damn! looking hot. DTF
COMIE?! COMIE!? REEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEE!!
I really wish I had gone to college with you. I love hearing/watching you talk.
Israel is not an ethno-state. My mom is from Uzbekistan and my dad is American, and I'm Israeli
Finally it makes sense why they flip out when you point out that they are racist. It’s a technically for them
Is it bad that Fritz/Freya is my favorite character in Contra universe?
Those C.Marxists gon' getcha lol
Is the Dalai Lama alt right/ethno nationalist because he says "Europe is for Europeans" ? Anyone ?
Wow, you're speaking lots of Axis languages in this video. DO YOU HAVE SOMETHING TO TELL US?
you destroyed your argument by saying that europe should learn by the US, yeah like 100x as many people in Prison, 10x as many police officers and a cost that comes with it, that is just mind-boggling. Also the Deaths by Drugs and Guns are more then 1000x higher compared in Relative Numbers (not per Person) here in Germany......  there is nothing positive about multiculturalism in comparison of the State, luckily the EU-Government is more into Pan-European ideas, than it es against them i believe it was shaun who stated that :)  Also you seem not be even able to grasp the concept of a Homogeneous state, which most of Europe still is, which will change eventually but getting all the migrants because your country bombed Libya and Syria is also a point which you seem to "overlook" Also a huge difference is that most of the US and Europe is christian and even if not where born and raised under similar conditions so it is very easy to adapt to cultural differences, because we SHARE so many conditions. PS. i still enjoyed the Song :) well done
11:18 Lovely sung
Who's gonna tell these alt right alpha males that old Norse went away bc of natural language evolution?? That's - that's what languages /do/ they /evolve / My language (Dutch) a 1000 years ago sounds more like Italian than it does Dutch. Oh no they took away the language! Truly an Italian genocide?? Someone give these poor people a book and some compassion so they can do better.
Is "Arisu" a reference to the South Korean trans celebrity "Harisu"?
I'm sorry is this how natalie sounded before she femmed up her voice
Thats some pretty good german  and some...okay japanese
my ex-boyfriend had this opinion that black people never contributed anything valuable to science or art of the world, he considered them worse than white people. it was just one of his flaws, but I was just struck what a horrible one. I live in one of these predominantly-white societies where people can be casually racist, that's why I was kind of considering it normal, but I don't think anyone can say something like that and claim to be a good and an intelligent person. the fear of other cultures is here, too. because ours is the best, right..?
Musical endings must come back to every video you make. This was awsome!
I watch you as an alternative to pornography. All these pretty words. I stare into those eyes and I'm in love. Where the hell do I find whatever you are?
10:13 oof, that's a Hungarian flag, I'm ashamed of my birth nation's current direction :S
Vaya basura de canal, no te extrañe que te lo cierren en pocas semanas, marxista asquerosa, por videitos como estas no impediras que la derecha retome el mundo a defender la civilización occidental y el orden preestablecido, lastima todo lo que sufrirás viendo como aplastan a todas las plagas de la izquierda.
unfortunately "Why Wh!te N@tionali$m is Wrong" video has been removed by youtube. Can you re-upload please?
I love Hbomber giggling while trying to get through those quotes
Not all criticism of Shillkesian came from alt right.
MAXIMUM CUCKOLDRY almost killed me
If you had been my professor when I went back to school for the first time in 20+ years, I wouldn’t have run screaming from the world of academia. LOL! The academic part wasn’t a problem - it was the passionless, tired professors, the idiotic administrators and the fact that profs still want you to write essays reflecting what their ego believes about the subject. You, on the other hand, are amazing AF and I totally love your work! You’re a beautiful genius, dearest! The internet needs more voices like yours.
"You have to be a deranged maniac to what to argu..." - Nazi-domatrix?-custom Natalie appears. Love that.
"The PC government wiped out old norse !" lmao !!!  Holy shit im too baked for this...
Can white supremacists stop trying to steal vikings from the gays
I support not only white genocide, but universal genocide. The eradication of all peoples. I love English in this context, because so much hinges on one letter or one apostrophe. The freedom of peoples I resent, because I support the freedom of people.
“The idea that only white nations are multi-cultural or multi-ethnic is false” - shows statistics that China is 94% Han Chinese, then a bunch of other Asian groups the largest of which makes up less than 1.5% of the population - Zhuang.  K...  India is 97% Dravidian or Indo-Aryan.    then you go on to take the least intelligent parts of comments which often make good points and you argue against those. It’s pretty disappointing because I’ve come to respect you as someone who makes far more intelligent arguments than most people on your side.   As a side note, Israel is definitely not an ethnostate, and the fact that you “condemn it” for being one is again, super ignorant. You will find Yemenis, Ethiopians, Sabras of all backgrounds, Ashkenazim, Sephardim, Greeks, Turks, Persians, Druze, Bedouin, Christians and of course a ton of Arabs in Israel... it’s this exact kind of factually inaccurate demonization of Israel that I expect from less intelligent leftists.  I hate identity politics and I don’t approve of “ethnonationalism” or whatever the kids are calling it these days, but the arguments you’ve presented against your point are often the weakest straw men you could find and I think it’s pretty intellectually dishonest of you.
Cool guitar solo!
your Japanese is........great ........
I consider myself one of the people that doesn't want cultural diversity or so much immigration that it'll vastly change my nation, I'm not part of the alt-right, or at least not anymore, I just want controlled and proper immigration for the benefit of my nation with properly defined laws about who can and can't live here, and a strong culture while also understanding that culture is to some degree a subjective experience. I think your views are great, but I'd like you to explore the European angle to this, a lot of people are fearful of the EU exactly because of what its goals are and the power that these EU officials have, the top man of the EU has more power than the American president and essentially unbarred control over all finances with little holding him back, that's not my nutty tinfoil argument but an ongoing debate within both the left and the right in Europe.
Skyrim is for the Nards
I want that corset 🖤
As a person on the alt right I find this video hilarious.
Dayyyum those boots !! i love them!!& im totally enjoying this channel, wish i had found it sooner!!
the dumb laugh hbomb does when he reads stuff like this makes me v happy it’s so pure
I love contrapoints! nails it every time no reasonable person can argue with the logic. The only problem is that  a lot of the people that need to learn from this are probably physically attracted to the beautiful Natalie and are too busy staring into those beautiful eyes to listen to the sense coming out of her mouth. Keep up the good work Natalie!
ARRRRIIIISUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUU
As she pointed out on the Jordan Peterson video: the miserable souls complaining about the West getting cucked don't even seem to know much about the West to begin with. Take their avatar Trump - it's hard to think of anyone less interested in the vast corpus of Western art and culture.
I just realized... these are the same people who will happily take things other cultures have created while simultaneously demonizing the mixing of cultures. So which is it? You can't have both
Yay for mentioning Peru! We have an awful problem with racism, though.
the progression of both you and your videos is something truly spectacular to watch
israel is not an ethnostate, when it has a more diverse population,  than most western countries.
'The Nazi Whisperer'. That alone is worth the price of admission.
In hindsight why do threes folks want the same immigration policies as japan? They just made it easier to live and work there lol
*nani*
Yo, can we get season 2 of the ContraPoints anime though?
Amazed how such a wanker gets so many subscribers/likes.  No wonder First World countries have backwards policies.
So glad H Bomb gave up the westminsrer laugh
What if Muslims disappeared from the face of earth who will be the next victim of white man
I think for someone obsessed with purity, the response to “whiteness isn’t a thing” will be “fine then I’ll just be German” and when you point out Germany is not ethnically homogenous you’ll get “Then I’m Bavarian” or something.   You can’t force them to accept multiculturalism on the grounds that they already do. They don’t want to and will retreat further until they are ethnically pure.
So China has minorities, but 94% Han is pretty high. In many ways “Han” is the same sort of non-biological concept as “White” rooted mainly in Confucian ideals and spoken language. And the Chinese government is actively trying to covert many minority’s groups to be more “Han” or replace them outright. China is kind of an ethnostate.
These are some solid videos! Got my rock-n-roll-foot tappin at the end as well!
**enthusiastically eats curry to MAXIMUM CUCKOLDRY comment**
Loved this one, spectacular short video! Covered everything and from now on I'll start pointing fascist people to this video, it may wake them up
I came for the philosophy and politics and stayed for... whatever the fuck everything else.
She speaks Japanese and German too! Oh my God, I love contrapoints
Black music produced Motown, Michael Jackson and Prince. Swedish music produced the Backstreet Boys, NSYNC and the Millennial Whoop. Get the point?
Ideas like a One World globalist government bringing down Old Norse are mild compared to the stupidity alt-Right types flaunt on the Internet.
I love you, girl.  Keep kickin ass!  Proud Patron over here
love the cowbell
AMERICANS! CARRY OUT YOUR PATRIOTIC DUTY KILL A NAZI TODAY!
(low key binge re-watching your entire channel because I only have 1 day off this week and want to procrastinate house chores, as they're a waste of my precious free time, which I gladly trade for the divine experience that is devouring your content)
The fact that white nationalists ignore that non-white cultures have and are constantly changing by the "western culture" is just bullshit. So it's ok for their culture to propagate other people's gtfo. Western Culture is the dominant culture in the world.
What the alt-right fears? Contrapoints  As well they should
FIRST AND FOREMOST, I MUST KNOW: Where do you get all those awesome costumes and outfits? That was all, thank you.
Awesome !  Keep it on.
How much longer until this freak chops his junk off? And if he already has, until he puts a rope around his neck and kicks the chair?
Technology is evolving and improving at an incredible rate. Who can really predict if humanity will even exist in its current form a century from now? Culture and skin color should be the least of the alt rights worries. The way the alt right looks at the world is so ignorant that it has come to the point where there is really no point in trying to convince or talk with these idiots. Let their political views die a slow and miserable death like it has in the past.
Contrapoints, I'm new to this channel and I'm a bit confused here.  Are you transitioning?  Are you just nonbinary? Do you just cross dress for fun like in Rocky Horror? Or is that just your THING?   (kind of like pseudo intellectualism is Sargon of Akkod's thing.)
Me in 4th grade: Man. I'm SO glad the KKK is gone. . . .  Me now: NANI!?
Idk why I am here. One second i was watching Jordan Peterson and now I am Hypnotized by a leather clad babe calling herself "The Nazi Whisperer".   2019 is starting off good
While you do make valid points, I'm not gonna go soft on Islamism, Islamofascism and Islamic terrorism... Because that's not just a western threat... But a global one.
homo-JEEN-i-us, please. homaw-jin-us is milk forced through a homawjinizer
it needs more cow bell
HAI.
hi i would like to meet u in real life u are very nice i also would like to put u in gas chamber (:
German declination is so damn hard, well done! Dein Deutsch ist besser als mein
Do you actually speak German?
Oh God!!!This Channel is super fucking cucked out!!!!
1:57 yes
I love,, the,, outfit
I love,, the,, outfit
There is a difference between treachery and 'change'.
THE ONLY ONE LEFT INTELLECTUAL IN 21 CENTURY!
Haaaaai  Nein! Haaaaai  Nein! Nani? Learn other vocabulary! .......Haaaaai.
I miss the songs  but I could see how that would create tonal dissonance haha
Man that was a nice burn for old TJ. I genuinely enjoyes this, I hope to see mlre of your videoes in the future. Happy new years!
In 80 years white people will be a minority says the 50 year old woman I will be dead but I'm afraid.
I really hate when the alties use Israel as an example. They hate Jews and deny the Holocaust but use us when it suits them. I’m living in Israel right now, and though it has problems with discrimination and segregation it is anything but ethnically homogenous. My university for example is over 30% Arab, both Palestinians from the West Bank and Arab Israelis, both Christian and Muslim. There are Druze and Bedouin minorities as well. Beyond that the country’s Jewish community (about 80% of the population) is anything but ethnically homogeneous. There are huge  numbers of recent immigrants from Ethiopia, the former Soviet Union, and France. There are Israeli Jews from places as ethnically and culturally different as India, Iraq, Poland, and Morocco.
7:14  —  Guys, what are your thoughts, shouldn't we voice these kind of comments in a serious manner?🤔  That is rather than giving to these individuals stupid sounding voices...  I don't think, at least in the case of voicing the (yeah ignorant, but nevertheless genuine) comments, it would hurt to just give them a voice, without making it sound like they are imbeciles.  Entertainment/aesthetics is a big part of education, but at least in these cases, where individuals genuinely express their concerns (even if ridiculous) — I think it did more bad than good to give them stupid voices.  What do you think (if anyone will ever even read this my comment)?
White is an artificially concocted race. A race isn't an ethnicity. Most white people are a miscegenated mess of European Ethnicities. By definition, you can't have a "white" ethnostate. WHITE ISN'T AN ETHNICITY!
C marxists are really the worst, they are opressing the hell out of proud free thinking Pythonians.
Agree with pretty much all of it, except... Anita Sarkeesian is still a shit bag and a fraud. She doesn’t deserve to be harassed, but the criticism, disdain or even hate is warranted or at least understandable.
No, they are afraid of other people realizing what worthless losers they all are. They failed at life, and so "I'm white" is the only good thing they can say about themselves. They're losers, they know they're losers, and they're afraid of other people finding out, but they're dumb enough to think that everyone else didn't already figure that out.
So I'm white, and I'm a nationalist. I'm not a white nationalist though. I'm pretty pissed that white nationalists are now white nationalists. We are a nation of refugees, immigrants, and crazys. People need to remember that.
So what black alt right people fear ?
One of the things I truly don't understand about Alt-right is when Richard Spencer said that he is proud Julius Caesar was white. Wtf. Julius Caesar was a military leader and politician. He killed little children, he wrote some good historian articles, caused civil war twice, created a calendar and burned a huge library. I don't know but really wtf ...
Thankfully only 1.6K people in the “Downvote everything we disagree with” brigade bothered to show up
When Nat comes strutting in in latex at 2:10 as the kinky trans goddess the alt right hates themselves for fapping over.
Israel is not a ethnic state, it's a religious state as there's religion in the government and the majority are Jews but they're not the same "race" or ethnicity
I've been watching your videos for weeks now and idk if I've ever said anything. You're fucking amazing.
Love the feminazi hat.  Your vids are getting better all the time.
I love you!! Thank you for opening my eyes :) I’m quite a gullible person and find reading between the lies really difficult. Especially with Jordan Peterson. I always did find him kind of creepy but couldn’t express why besides his terrifying and fatalistic approach to self help! I thought it was me being weak and it was just ‘tough love’. Thank you for explaining to me with kindness what the deal was, because everyone else just got angry!
Monty Python reference earned you a comment!
Is it bad that I find your fascist costume kinda hot
Shaun and jen, alright, thanks for pointing me their way! What is white nationalism about? Not hate but fear? No, it's clearly about delusion, believe whatever you want, whatever makes you feel good. Want to believe you're of the superior race? Go right ahead!
This is fucking awesome. I can't believe I have never seen this before. I am glad that I finally found this channel. :) :) :)
have you ever felt romantic love without any initial lust ?
on a different topic , are girls just ultra feminine males  or are they like cats and dogs , fundamentally different ?
Only flaw I see in your argument is how you compare American society being ethnically and racially diverse as a example of how "it's gonna be fine in the long run" to Europeans.    This really does conflict with your arguments when it came to talking about BLM and systemic racism, how it shows that we are still very segregated and there's still a lot of racism and poverty among our minority groups, lot's of conflict too between government enforcers and African Americans, including the riots and such.   I honestly think that using America as a example is just kind of a misstep in your argument as you clearly don't think the way America has gone about it and is CURRENTLY going about it, is good.
Who is this guy singing at 9:42?
Insecurity, stupidity and weakness masquerading as masculinity, superiority and righteousness
🐸💥🔫
Though in the broad historical perspective, African American culture didn’t exist before the slave trade. People from many diverse west African cultures were enslaved and sold to american farmers. Only after they were enslaved for generations did any sort of unified culture come to exist.
Hate is a common response to fear. We hate that which we fear. Otherwise, why get so exercised over gradual changes over generations. The Turkish Gastarbeiters have been a fixture of German life for a good six decades, and they were begged to come there. Now they're supposed to leave the home of their grandparents?
Love you ContraPoints! Keep doing being you!
Damn where did you get those boots??
3:17 *Roll credits*
Fantastic video. You know, I think you'd quite like Spengler if you put aside the fact that the NSDAP twisted his words posthumously to support their ideology despite his vehement disagreement with them. I've always thought of cultures like the so-called "Western Culture" as having finite lifespans, thanks to having read "Fall of the West," and so even when I was conservative I never bought into the whole "white fear" (for lack of a better term.) It's pointless to fight to keep a culture when it's already dying of old age.  Anyways, you *are* rock and roll, Contra. I hope more Americans adopt your attitude of rational discourse and happy-go-lucky tolerance for diversity.
2:04 YASSSSSSSSSS CONTRA HIT ITTTTTTTTTT
I initially LOL'd at the idea presented that a willingness to try and argue against fascists is driven by some sort of masochistic depravity, but in the end, whenever one willingly sinks into the depths of the comment section, isn't that kind of what it feels like?
Love that you don't agree with the salt right bro flakes.  Hate that you play a les paul lol.
You are still argueing with facts...Although the problem is not that you are arguing with facts, but you are arguing with nationalist racists. Don't you have better things to do? Most of them are too far lost in hatred and angst.
You found your calling and I'm happy for you. I don't agree with a lot of what you say, but I'm happy you're alive.
The Golden One comment is everything and more.
You are so awesome!
All those hate comments and you still haven't disabled the comment section! Love it! <3   I know many religious channels who seem to disable them by default.  Nice reference to Monty Python in the end credits. Very subtle.
Contra gives me hope
I'm waiting for the day when everyone is mixed and nobody gives a shit about ethnicity because we're star treking too hard to care
ahhh the old all Germans are nazis joke. That's gonna help us over here.....
How much of a production team do you have?
Contrapoints
1 of the things I like most about the US, is multiculturalism. I like that it's not all one race, all one type of food, one type of music, one type of clothing, and people coming from all over the world in search of freedom is a big part of that. The nonconformity and lack of homogeneity is one of the things that makes America America. I think for any country to want all one race, or all one type of anything, is not only limiting, and bigoted, but terribly boring.
Um, Western Old Norse is a mostly intact language and has been preserved in Iceland.  Seriously!  There are like 50 Norse Sagas written in it!  Idiots!
It saddened me "my culture is half black" only because the indigenous are in no way as prevalent. I took the point, it was a good point, it still made me sad anyway.
Cant find undisputable research, but America is propably not the most multicultural country as you claim in this video. Just the biggest.
Hello, cookie ! ^^
Wow damn... If this is not art, then I really don't know what art is.
Officially Israel has a 71% Jewish population, though some claim it's more like 65%-68%, but still the only multicultural factors there are their popular culture and cuisine (which is still mostly kosher btw), but still the dominant culture is a sort of Israeli-Jewish melting pot of different Jewish cultures that only seem multicultural but when it counts they all unite under the same Jewish-Israeli identity that even the majority of non-Jewish Israelis see themselves as being part of. well, except the Arab Muslims who will never forsake their ethnic identity but are still despite themselves are very much influenced by the dominant Israeli culture. that's why they have such climbing divorce rates, because their women are more influenced than the men and have started to demand their freedom and are no longer afraid of their husbands beating or trying to subdue them or even of honour killings because their culture is becoming more permissive and because they've learned how to use the governmental support system created for them. Anyway, despite all those things, Israel is a very much Jewish ethno-state with a strong Jewish influence and dominance in the public space, Knesset where laws are made, and even in the mainstream leftist media and the academia where even the extreme leftists are afraid to show their true colors and publicly support anti-Israeli movements such as the BDS (well everywhere except the Tel-Aviv university).  So tell me now, why are we white people not allowed to have such ethno states? Why aren't we allowed to have and be proud of our own cultures without our governments trying to squash them and tell us that we're racists and that we should accept that the our future is beige and not white? Why did my government like most of the western European ones, had to bring all those "refugees" and Muslim migrants, make us pay for them and allow them to start running things, create their own small nations within our nation and displace white people out of them? And why couldn't my country's police help us when two syrian families moved into our apartment complex and started to harass and threaten us in order to make us leave so they could repopulate the building with their own people, which they eventually succeeded and not only that, those who own or used to own those apartments were forced to sell them far below the asking price and optimist owners who refused to sell are now renting out their apartments for laughable prices? And why did they allow for the same crap to happen to other homes in our areas and to continue spreading outwards?  And you realize that only a few months after we moved out to what we thought was a safe neighborhood a couple of Muslim families in our area found out that my fiancee is not only Jewish but is originally from Israel and started to harass us there until we eventually realized that it's pointless to try to move  to a different neighborhood or even city where the same could and probably will happen again, so we decided to temporarily move to Israel to calm down a bit and figure things out, and as much as I wish I could stay here because people here are very nice and welcoming and even supportive when I tell them our story, I still don't feel like I belong here because this is not my culture and I want to go back living with my own people and what's left of my culture.  So tell me please, is this not white displacement? Me being forced out twice out of my apartment and eventually out of the country by people who do not belong there and without any help from my own government? And don't think we're the only ones who this has happened to. I've heard countless of stories of people who were forced out of their homes and some who like us, eventually  decided to flee their own country before it's too late even if temporarily. Even the elderly couple that used to live in the same apartment complex we were forced out of the first time, have eventually moved to Hungary where I'm sure they'll be much safer.  Look I'm not racist and I'm not alt-right, I don't agree with their ideology, but I'm not blind either and I can see the agenda of white displacement -or whatever tf you want to call it- in my own country and in western Europe in general, and you can't tell me this isn't happening, especially not since you're on the other side of the globe and you don't know what's really going on in Europe where the news that come out of there are mostly censored.
3:13 omg I have those shoes!
You, are a fun time!
WN is just the fear that minorities will do to them what they've done to pretty much all other ethnic groups in the world.
Did you call Israel an ethno-state? That's absurd; over one in five Israelis are Arab.
8/10. Not enough cowbell.
Now I kinda want to learn German to cosplay As a neo fascist
I love how hbomberguy can barely hold it together while reading the comments. He has an infectious laugh.
Natalie: Another great video; love the Japanese/German juxtapositions. Sublime!  And nice work on the Gibson / guitar solo too.  However, my main (albeit multi-pronged) concern is at the argument you make on existential fear and mobile culture.     1.  Suppose we can contain a culture? In spite of being WASP/Canadian in lust with American culture (nativism), I can't help but want to lobby towards any and/or all degrees in attempts to maintain and preserve it ("Neo-cultural Misappropriation"?).   Wouldn't I be deemed wrong for not doing so?              2. Assuming that history isn't so much an unfolding of events, but a carefully crafted narrative, what can be so wrong with (still) wanting to believe in the "American Dream"?  Sure, George Carlin might argue that in order to do so we must be "asleep" (LOL), but, why and who's to say that it's wrong to "re-imagine" such an elusive perception?   3.   Wouldn't the failure at attempting to will ourselves to preserve our culture be a sign of ethnic-suicide? ("willful cuckoldry"?), because if we aren't going to protect our "own", do you really think another ("the Other") will????  Isn't handing off the baton indicative of some kind of internal malignancy or auto-moral disorder?  We wouldn't want a pusillanimous culture would we? Thanks! Namaste.
I remember I went digging into the alt-right a bit here on Youtube, about a month ago. I watched a lot of videos by Sargon and by Alternative Hypothesis. An overarching theme I found in the comment sections--besides all the usernames and pictures--was that of not just young white men, but young white men who are severely depressed and self-loathing. Kind of a similar feeling you yourself talk about in your Incels video. It made me feel empathy, realizing they were all just children that were scared, and got sucked up into the wrong, wrong, WRONG mindset and worldview that exploited that fear.
I have the same mic!!! Dope!
Alright, I give up. Does anyone know the anime song at the beginning? It is fire
Let sleeping dogs lie... I say: NO! And you know what sleeping dogs I'm referring to, don't you? No? Well, let me refresh your memory. Russians! That's right. Russians, ruskies, communists... co-mu-niss-teh. Oh, now you remember. Well, you'll also remember how a few years ago all we ever talked about was how the Russians were gonna take over the wooooorld and how every household would be run by communists and their filthy communism. Oh yea, we feared the Russians back in them days, and for good reason too. But now all I ever hear is: "Poor little Russia, they've got no money!" "Poor little Russia, they've gone broke!" "POOR LITTLE RUSSIA THIS AND POOR LITTLE RUSSIA THAT!" Don't you get it? Am I the only one that gets it? It's a trick! Communism never dies, communism is a cancer. A cancer sleeping, awaiting the moment to devour our freedom, to devour democracy.  Oh, I know what your are thinking. You are thinking "This guy is just some right-wing paranoid reactionary who had a horrible upbringing and whose father beat him EVERY DAY WITH A BIBLE," WELL MAYBE THAT'S TRUE BUT IT NEVER DID ME ANY WRONG!! All I'm saying is a few years ago people used to listen to me, I fit in. Well, listen to me now.  The Russians, they are gonna try to take over the world again don't you forget that for one second, friend, or else you'll find yourself lining up for toilet paper in some GODLESS world!  There's one more thing I'd like o say. KILLER BEES! Forgot about them, didn't ya?! Well, that's just what they want us to do. That's right. The Russian communists. The killer bees. _curls middle finger over index finger_ They are like this! So when people say to me let sleeping dogs lie, I say to them "Friend, sleeping dogs...they eventually wake up... and chew out the throat of democracy!"
It's not about cultural survival for these pansies. It's about cultural dominance. It's the racial equivalent of an only child getting a baby brother then whining that his parents now hate him and want him dead. Pansies.
I hope this doesn't come off bigoted or whatever. But I think you make some of the best videos debunking fascists, my concern is actually getting them to listen to someone who's trans gender deconstructing their ideology. At the same time, I love to see someone who they always portray as mentally unstable or whatever stealmaning the fascist agenda while they completely misrepresent people like you...
what cucks fear, the alt right
Your best video yet! Also, do Americans not think that a Wal-Mart, McDonald's, and Starbucks in literally every major city center on the planet is not also destroying those cultures? You can see a Wal-Mart from every major cultural heritage site I've visited in every continent. Chew on that.
Dont worry about culture. Worry about beeing safe and thats what you want you just want to be safe from what is helping you to be safe.
5/10. Video needed more Cowbell.   Did not receive enough. Demand refund.
Holy shit you are so talented
Nazi transvestites have become relevant again after those WW2 pictures were revealed.
I was just thinking that this video needs more cowbell. Good work
Part of me is all, "Lets just give the whiny white boys their own island or whatever to get rid of them."  (suddenly thinking of Australia..) But then another part is screaming, "That is a God awful idea!"
You make my heart grow 3 sizes bigger.
Irrelevance. Fear of Irrelevance. That was deep.  More Madness. And multi-talented, too. Alrighty, then. Good stuff.
You’re just a fabulous person, Contra! I love you! 💕💗💗💕
0:45 REEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEE
pure cringe
Emotional issues are immune to facts; just as Factual issues are resistant to emotions. There is no intelligent life on this planet. Europe, and later the USA was shaped over a long period of time by fear and religion. You seem to be a brave and bold person but two people looking at the same thing will have different views. We should stop and  think about how this concept might directly impact a person's life. A lone Private unknown individual as opposed to a connected and respected Government Leader. Example given: take a generic UFO encounter. The private citizen may become an internet celebrity while the same reported incident from a public figure simply ruins their career.  Thus the private citizen is motivated to fully report and maybe embellish the alleged UFO encounter but the public figure is motivated to dismiss and deny the same very event. As I said; there is no intelligent life on this planet! But i could be mistaken. Have you ever head of Deborah Lipstadt and David Irving? Proof A man who is his own lawyer has a fool for a client.
Genius 😂👌
Y'know, pay-per-view Homeric deathmatches between Alt-Right and Antifa lunatics might not be such a bad idea. Everybody gets rid of the most annoying members of their own groups and we generate revenue at the same time.
You looked good enough to eat in those boots mama! I love you, you depraved maniac
Nice  analysis. Acording to Peterson (or lot of other people) to change you must "die" and "reborn" as a new person. Nazi should read Peterson and stop be afraid of death.
The weirdest argument (but one that is one of the most popular among nazis) is that there won't be whites in x decades. The reason it's weird, is that future doesn't exist and the people fantasizing about the future especially will not exist there. So why worry? You won't even be around! What does it matter whether or not we turn into biomechanoids that populate the whole galaxy or whatever. It seems like a crutch for people who can't deal with their impermanence or something, why do i even write Youtube comments... especially when I'm drunk. Well it beats being a FUCKING NAZI. Atleast I don't hate my fellow human for stupid shit. I try not to hate that much either. Life is what it is. Thanks a lot for these videos. They are superb and you should stop putting yourself down so much.
I didn't realize these arguments are considered alt-right these days. These are classic arguments neo-nazis have been pushing as long as I've been around. Nothing more. Nothing less. The problem with the Internet is that it spreads information, not knowledge. As Frank Zappa sang: "There's a big difference between kneeling down and bending over."  I am hopeful that whatever damage the alt-right is doing right now can be reversed once these adolescents grow up. The important thing is what you are doing: presenting rational arguments because that's how you get the rational ones to reject the "ideology".
I'm in love
As one of the "otaku shitweasels" telling the radical feminists to leave video games alone or otherwise make games themselves, please don't compare me to those weak-minded psychopathic neo-Nazi assholes. They do not speak for all of us or even most of us. Great video though.
Colton Streicher that is such a fanfiction name.
You are awesome!
You're inteligent, and you're sexy. My type! LOL
why am I getting titles and discriptions i German?
Why are fascist outfits so sexy....
Been binging your videos after discovering you by random chance while watching Tim Pool. Absolutely love your content Natalie. It's a nice counterbalance to all of the right wing stuff I watch as well (John Ward, Crowder, James Allsup) while also giving some insight into the plight of my transcript friends. Definitely opened my eyes to why they sometimes act the way they do.   Also I'm going to have to say 'damn you!' for making me realize I have a burning desire for Nazi Natalie (Nazalie?) and a fetish for sexy Nazi outfits.
The nazi whisperer hell Yeah!
I love you
6:32 anal people... *chuckles childishly*
Uuhhggggg you're so beautiful
@ContraPoints You know, you seem like a cool person to have  beer with. Thanks for posting, please keep being awesome! Edited to add: I've got a fever, and the prescription is more cowbell!!!
"Come here Fritz sk sk sk sk...."  HAHAHA
Oh my gawd, is that the actual Golden One, the chosen of the gods and the child of nature, who left you that comment? Because to be honest roleplaying the dog to his master sounds fairly hot.
Subscribed at 2:05 bc. brilliant intro lmao. Turned on notifs by the end ❤️
Japan has also been trending toward multiculturalism. The Japan First party, just like the fash shits in America, has been outnumbered and outrallied by Japanese counterprotesters and JP antifa in every corner of every street they've marched.
More Cowbell!!!
It's almost as if you said Africans are genetically dispositioned to rhythmic ability.
Are you actually transgender?
Your outfit reminds me of romantically apocalyptic.
Yes I'm late to the party but  "MORE COWBELL!"
Brilliant :-)
White genocide is real. Unfortunately.
If you consider western culture to be that which was before Christianity, then you are right: Western culture has been utterly, irrevocably destroyed. So you should just become a historian, you have no hope of getting it back. But even more importantly, you could not possibly have any real affinity for it.
IVE BASICALLY WATCHED ALL OF YOUR VIDOES AND IM HOOKED.
I'm so glad I found you.
New to this channel! Great content and actual substance to debate. You are what the internet needs. Appreciate you!!!
Yeah yeah  yeah, this debate was good and all but can we talk about her singing for a second? Why is it not that bad like wtf??
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AIXUgtNC4Kc
As an Irish man who was getting sick to death of idiotic Americans telling me that I live (or soon will) under an Islamic Caliphate (Europe is overrun with Muslims don't you know?), thanks for restoring some belief that America is not completely filled with ignoramuses.
I LOVE THIS CHANNEL. I love you.
Israel is NOT an Ethostate since they would not discriminate (institutionally) over color region etc. They are a Theocratic state (theostate) that does discriminate over religion.
Punching nazis for the win.
This whole video is great, and that last point was my favorite by far. The idea that "white culture" is the definitive "American culture" is inherently biased. I was literally just talking to my friend about this a couple days ago. That for us having grown up in a Californian city, the American experience is being able to step out your door and go find Asian, Indian, Italian, Mexican, French, Greek/Mediterranean, African, hell even Russian cuisine all in a stone's throw away from your house. It means getting to go to school with kids who speak another language and learning some of their language from them (something I actually did and loved and would spark me to pursue a degree in language arts!) To me, American culture is entirely comprised of being able to connect with the rest the world in a place where the rest of the world can come to connect with each other. So when I hear people arguing that doing away with that is the one true way to preserve American culture I simply cannot agree. And like Contra appreciates Black and other ethnic contributions to American culture, I as a Black person still greatly appreciate and enjoy White contributions as well and if a huge group of people were suddenly in danger of disappearing or dying out simply because they wee White, or any other race, I would contribute everything I could to keep that from happening. I said this on another of Contra's videos and I stand by it: to me losing any race or culture would be a loss for all mankind and I would definitely consider it a personal loss, of things a certain people bring to the world that could enrich my life. I realize that in order for nationalist or race supremacy advocates to adopt the idea of preserving themselves by agreeing to preserve everyone technically that would kill off race supremacist "culture" so yeah it's a little hypocritical to basically promote the loss of that culture, but I just think that there are better aspects of white people to preserve and I'd rather see them give that up for long term survival than to hold onto it and potentially tear themselves and everyone else down. Anyway tldr, I loved that last point and I hope I start seeing more people embrace that stance!
OMG is that a literal feminazi costume
Ummm... It needs more cowbell
I'm legit jealous that you can both speak Deutsch and weeb frequently. As an avid anime watcher, and a germ-aboo, I'm sad.
White nationalists are just really scared that if immigrants come over to their countries women would have another reason not to go out with them. They'll be 'NoDesuNoPuss'.
New viewer and subscriber slowly binging your videos. I love you and your style. Brilliant. ❤️
Why is your nazi character so  horrifically and disturbingly sexy?
Fritz was literally Contra's best character. #bringbackfritz
This. Was. Wonderful. Whenever I hear a white nationalist speak I am gonna be saying, "Rock 'N Roll you bastards. Rock 'N Roll. Now shut the fuck up. "  Thank you.
doesnt change the fact that white privelege doesnt exist and whites are the least protected group in their own countries, in the west that is. and it also doesnt change the fact that migrants are usually highly disrespctful to the hosts of wherever they move to. my sister married a swedish migrant, a muslim if you will, and he's a hitler supporter and a trump supporter because of what he personally has seen occur in migrant camps and what is done to whites by them. and how theyre above law for having no go zones. thought youre into equality?
Your german is on point
Change is eternal, and sad little manchildren can't deal with it.
under the double eagle and the german sentence really did it for me, goddammit :,D
It sometimes scares me that a lot of the communities I run in (like weeb shit) seem to produce a whole load of these アルトライト guys. I mean, fuck, I’m a goddamn channer from time to time, how am I such a fucking communist.
It's definitely a good thing that the nazi jewish scientists created these perverts to all self destruct themselves just as soon as there warranty has expired or that there goals have been met or accomplished to destroy all traces of evidence that might expose there creators or location of creation.
Its all god you are just wrong about imigration 😜
I love you.
it's especially amusing when the Greeks do it.  Yeah, your 4,000 year old culture that forms the foundation of modern civilization is totally going to die out just because of a bunch of Syrians. Oh wait...Syria was ruled by Greeks for a thousand years. Having the fear is understandable, not realizing that it's completely groundless isn't. When I started having irrational fears I went to a shrink and got medication. They went away.
im just impressed by your german.
''fear'' actually this comes from patterns that you can observe..it is funny how leftist always labels everything as a ''fear'' as if a change is inherently good it is not..but i did not see a single counter argument there..just accusations
Holy hell how did you learn so many languages
Good!
Holy shit your videos are extremely good.
I just came for the guitar solo... make of this syntax what you will
I just found you and I’ve been watching all your videos. I can’t believe I missed your brilliance for this long! More please!!!
White ntionalists and you leftist guys are just the same type of people. Nazis hate people of colour and you guys hate white people. You are all disgusting beings.
Viktor Frankl would like a word about concentration camps : https://youtu.be/psaCM1j9LEM
You know how liberals feel when Trump wants to kick trans people out of the military? That's how Trumpists and Republicans feel when non-whites come into their country. It makes you want to fight out of a sense of self-preservation, and it makes them want to fight out of a sense of race-preservation.  IMHO we need more nation states (possibly sea states), that allow for a diversity of self-governance without people having to fight each other for self-preservation, Liberals and multiculturalsts should live apart from conservatives and race separatists, and they should not have to fight each other for control of government. It is profoundly il-liberal to force white separatists to live in a multicultural society.
No, it's about power. White Europeans deserve a white Europe (or USA) because they  can. Things have gotten to the point that it would entail the displacement of millions of people who will probably revolt, so maybe they can't anymore.   So the question is not "should they", or "is it fair", but "can they"? And to the extent they can't displace their own non-white citizens, they still can restrict immigration to stay whiter than they would otherwise.
5:11 honestly, racially homogenous places are kinds weird. In the US it’s almost terrifying. I’m white but I grew up in SoCal which is very racially diverse. When I was 15, I lived in Kansas for a few years and it was almost entirely white people. It was so shocking I was legitimately terrified. It wasn’t until I got to high school did I see more diversity, even if it was very little, and only then did things feel normal again. A part of me is anxious about when I travel outside the US, cuz one place I’m going to is japan, where less than 10% of the population isn’t Japanese and of course less than 2% isn’t Japanese or Chinese or Korean. It’s very homogenous and while there are historical reasons for it, im not looking forward to being in a homogenous place. I still want to go to experience other countries and cultures and people and languages, but I’m still fairly anxious about it.
Girl, you’re videos are alsways so interesting lol. It’s just weird watching the old ones especially since I started with your more recent videos. I’m glad I started watching you’re videos from this year first though tbh.
Your channel is awesome. I can only imagine how many White Nationalist jerkoffs (with barely a High School education) have completely lost their minds while watching this?! Hahaha, the other half of them were probably jagging off to it. LoL!
Considering how often countries, states, and cultures have risen and disappeared (or more accurately evolved) over the centuries, if white genocide were true would it not simply be another natural part of the course of history. Like the potential disappearance of countries beneath changing demographics (7:45) is a ridiculous notion, but I'm actually curious what would take the place of the current status quo.
James Baldwin put the notion you express at min 9 very well when he said "Nothing is more undeniable that the fact that cultures vanish, undergo crises, are in any case in a perpetual state of change and fermentation - being perpetually driven by God knows what forces within and without."
Everything you stated is right, if societies are generalized and neutral. But since all people are a spectrum of views, there can exists cultures and societies so toxic that even you can't defend them.   So, you're 100% right, for now.
After watching this video I looked into the one of the goons shown in the graphic and holy shit, Sargon is an absolutely crazy piece of shit.  What's most troubling is that he's clearly not an idiot, but he's found a great way to earn money from youtube by appealing to the fears of certain fragile white dudes.  I don't know if that's more or less reprehensible than someone who's a true believer, but god damn his channel is damaging.  I never knew that youtube as a platform was totally cool supporting views like that as long as they get a piece of that sweet sweet ad revenue.  It's gross.
One of these types is a coworker of mine. She's nice enough, as long as you don't touch issues like politics or social justice on break time. Unfortunately for her, I'm constantly trying to break down current events with similarly-minded lib colleagues on lunch break, and her talking points are *always* the same: she doesn't recognize herself in the world, she thinks gender being a fluid concept is something that's going to mentally scar kids, she "knows gay people" but manages to not condone the lifestyle while insisting over and over that they're nice people, she "knows Muslims" but refuses to abide by the idea that most local Muslims aren't working to install Charia courts... I could go on for two or three paragraphs. Big shock, she's over sixty.  Fear is just this soul-sucking constant in her, to the point where I openly told her she reminded me of H.P. Lovecraft. She's complimented me a few times, but is seemingly convinced I should be blaming things like my disability on disproportionate healthcare being attributed to non-Whites in my native neighborhood.  Long story short, we've recently switched cafeterias. I'd much rather be my Transhuman and Social Progressive self in relative peace than hear her tear her shirt off at the mere mention of US politics and the outcome of the midterm  elections. Worst thing is, being Canadian, I'm mostly only *aware* of American political movements. They don't directly affect me. She acts like Trump finally getting something like a decent amount of rhetorical opposition is spelling doom for the Western world as she knows it.  I remember just grinning at the end of her latest spiel.   "Well, if we're going to be swamped out by a massive tide of dark-skinned human flesh and a tsunami of non-Christian prayer books, then I'll be the guy riding a cardboard box float atop the waves, cackling maniacally like Doctor Strangelove the entire fucking way," I replied. "Bring it on, baby!"  That's earned me a good two to three weeks of relative peace.
This gets back to my two word argument against the idea of white supremacy: Jimi Hendrix
Ha. One of the very few US-actors capable of speaking understandable german. *thumbsup*
"There's a big difference between death and metamorphosis," said the butterfly to the cringing caterpillar. Very true. Please keep up the good work.
Israel is not an ethnostate
Multiple languages, plays multiple instruments, writes and produces interesting thought provoking content.... Holy shit!
While you may be the Nazi whisperer, Hbomberguy is kind of the anti-Nazi whisperer. I don't think he's capable of having a even vaguely serious conversation without becoming violently mocking.
Apparently these idiots think that a country with majority brown people is an ethnostate as if within those majority brown countries there arent dozens of ethnicities, languages, and cultures
Good stuff, what is this music that you used for the video that was removed?
i wonder how many electronic devices have been damaged by the repugnants watching contrapoints videos?
It’s a stalling of evolution. Which has got to be nigh on impossible to argue away! I admire you immensely for you videos, never give up
More cowbell baby! ✌❤🏳️‍🌈🎸
Oh God... that Old Norse argument... As a linguistics nerd, I facepalmed so hard...
gottverdammt , dein deutsch ist wirklich gut
finally a funny woman on youtube!
hey I just want to say you're my favourite youtuber
Keep on rocking in the free world :)!
change is the only constant in life. those who are unwilling to embrace change, are doomed to be destroyed by it.
I'm going to *maybe* forgive you someday for using Bob Seger to represent Rock n Roll. :)
your work is incredibly thoughtful and i really appreciate it, thanks for continuing to create fascinating, great art :~) also side note ur super beautiful !! have a nice day!
Shit, why is this opening reminding me of Happy Sugar Life???!
Ziss ist degenerate sjw Bolshevism SZILENCE !!!
damn you really look like Violet Chachki here-toot!
“What’s wrong with the immigration policy of Japan?” HMM. GEE. HAVE YOU LOOKED AT THEIR AGE PERIOD.
Question: how many languages do you speak?
German asmr, why do I love it?
...hearing you with a different voice feels weird.   (not that you are any less beautiful. or right. I'm just use to your 2018 voice)
Harris helplessly laughing as he reads out comments makes this video.
Homosexuals and ethnic diversity.
You are a wonderful gift to the world and I wish I knew how to use my intelligence and passions effectively like you do on your channel. I'll keep learning for now. Cheers!
those white nationalists don't know that jews are the masterrace. how else would they control everything while only being 10 million
And I cry.
I've been trying to reason with nazis, or white nationalists for the better part of my life now, but I came to a similar conclusion. Like they say.. Discussing with nazis is like playing chess with a pigeon.  No matter how good you are, and how hard you try, at some point the pidgeon will shit on the board, throw the pieces all over the place, and then strut around as if it had won.  That said.. great video, love it!
I didn't expect Peru to be mentioned. Greetings from a Peruvian fan 😘
The amount of costume change in this 10 minute discourse is astounding
Conservatives: "Liberals are a violent mob!"  Also conservatives  Run over protesters Milo's intern kills his own dad for being left-wing burn down abortion clinics Assault black people in the streets
Those kids fleeing for their lives couldve gone to any country next to theirs, why did they go all the way to Hungary?
For the most part the part 2 of the Golden one’s comment was pretty civil making the part 1 even more hilarious
Love you. Cheers from Chile
Annihilation was the best of the southern reach trilogy books. no reason to fear it.
This is great.
you can take all the fascists and racist assholes. but please, please, don't get my pepe into this as well
honestly I have spent all day watching your videos AND THE ASMR JOKES FUCKINGH AVE ME DYING AND I LOVE YOIU YOU COMEDIC GENIUS
Your german is quite good. Definitely not a native speaker, but with a little bit of practice, pretty good.  I binge-watch your videos. Love the way you argument.
The problem with the marketplace of idea notion is that debunked ideas sustain themselves, especially when funded by rich people who know what they're doing and/or fueled by irrational fears.
Do you want to hear a joke?    Feminism allied with Islam.
The root cause of alt-right aggressiveness explained. I have seen no-one else explain this it with so much empathy and decency. And you pulled it of in fishnet tights and fetish dominatrix attire. How cool are you !
I was listening to this vidéo while doing other stuff, then I got back and got the visuals: DAT FEMINAZI ATTIRE THO! xD xD I like your style!
I love you! :-DDDD
2:07 I don't know what the fuck is wrong with me, but that has me ROCK hard.
Give me that fucking lingerie babe
"Also also wik" DAMMIT I SEE WHAT YOU DID THERE
7:18 MAH BOYE HBOMB nice
Another great video, but it needs more cowbell.
God. You were so cute even before you transitioned medically. You're just genuinely cute.
where the hell do you buy a dress like that
This reminds me of the Weimar before the thirties
Contrapoints: Causer of introspection and awkward erections.
The comment about Old Norse though.  Old Norse is not an extinct language... Icelandic is literally Old Norse.
-Is it just Israel where the anime\nerd community is EXTREEMLY LGBTQ+ friendly?(I wrote that before you even got to the over topic)  -The topic of ethnic states isn't something that could be easily summarized... There are plenty of questions that need to be asked though Israel and Palestine is also way more complex than people just not wanting immigrants because of diverse ethnicity, it's people who don't want immigrant of an ethnic group that had a lot of members that show open hostility and deny they right to exist of the other ethnic group(and as you know people tend to lump them all together because when talking about a group they forget it's individuals who say and act about these things)... The Jews in Israel are thought to never feel safe and that the country's thriving state could be revoked at any time if national security fails which is why mandatory army service is still practiced despite many others stating that it shouldn't and it hurts the freedom of the citizens. Basically if both parties acted rationally there could be a solution but it is unlikely that Israel will open it's boarders or that these banished Palestinian's would be satisfied with this solution. (Also the nationalist put up the argument that they have lots of children and will out number the Jews elect their government and do what they want which is rather unlikely IMO but you will have to refute that to even let that happen which is why a 2 state solution sits better with people leaning towards the middle of the political spectrum)
I absolutely fucking lost it at the nazi wisperer part 😂
I am of mixed-race. I have ancestry from the following racial groups: -Angle -Saxon -Celtic -Norman But I still pass as White...
The entertainment value of your shit is fucking priceless. Good stuff. You have serious, serious  director talent. I'd hire the shit out of you for a movie.
Natalie you’re a cultural icon of historic proportions. I can only compare you to the greatest. Please know that you are heard, appreciated and much admired for your sharp intellect and your brilliantly entertaining way of communicating such important and complicated issues
Hbomberguy! Why I didn't notice?
People tell me I look like you. I feel good now.
You're the fucking best
Oh my god I lost my shit at "You'd have to be a deranged maniac..." I hope you're okay! You make us all proud! If you need to vent we're here for ya.
7:40 can we talk about how Portugal is Hispanic and not white? 😂
so smart
As a moderate Muslim if I saw you out at night I'd probably think, "Her outfit and makeup are on point." and then continue about my business.
But seriously the One World Government did kill off Old Norse. Damn, pour one out for our Viking brothers I guess.
Lovely video as always. Plus, that leather outfit is sexy, and quite the musician. Oh, that cover needs more cowbell. LOL
god dammit your videos are great
I kind of miss the semi Lolita Japanese character...too bad she's made to help attract the nationalists
You guys are the cool kids.
Asians.. Smart. Black People.. Strong White people... Rich? What makes them genetically better?
6:35 anal people?
Omg that entrance, I'm dying 🤣🤣🤣🤣
It seems to me that traditional European culture like the Greeks, Romans, Arcadian, Nordic, Gaelic and all the myriad of pagan traditions in between  were all destroyed by Christianity. In essence, white people stole and corrupted a Brown cultural feature and used it to kill off traditional White European culture in otherwords: White on white crime.
I thought this was great at first, then you kicked it up a notch with Bob Seger
Great video.
2:07 vapours
As a Slavic, Jewish-German Communist whose ancestors escaped Nazis, who grew up in the People's Republic of South Yorkshire (in an incredibly diverse part of Britain) I think the title of this video describes me accurately. Great video!
Omg she is so hot I can’t, please be my mother❤️❤️❤️❤️❤️❤️❤️❤️
I just gotta quickly be like, "Modern Icelandic is mutually intelligible w/ Old Norse." Boom! Debunked!
You have ALL talents.
Sweet Les Paul :-)
Good German Accent.
im gay and i find them hot... does this make me straight or even GAYER?fuckk.
Dam why didn’t I ever see this before??? And more importantly what has google got with recommending me videos with ladies with their skirts blowing up at the moment???
I am Rock & Roll
>strawmanning by cherry picking comments from retards >proving the white-nationalists' points by generalizing them all as bigots when the retards even state in sentences that you *DIDN'T HIGHLIGHT* that it's about pride of one's race and not about hatred towards other races >entire video is basically "muh white guilt; muh hypocrisy (despite every single culture on Earth displaying the same hypocrisy); muh boipussi, i'm trans, ha-ha-ha"  I think racial "pride" of any kind is moronic, so falsely calling me a butt-hurt neo-nazi won't have much affect. Either way, this video was a dud, *HON* . Regardless, I really like your content, despite thinking that you're sort of, kind of, always, fucking fallacious. But honestly, that just adds to the humor for me. Any time you bring up Native American genocide, I cringe a bit though. I always think the notion of "stealing land" in history is fucking hilarious because it's completely devoid of logic. How do you think we got here? How do you think Italy became Italy? How do you think Germany became Germany? It was a clusterfuck of wars and a global back-and-forth battle of seizing lands, and then having them conquered again. What do you think the Native Americans did? They killed off other tribes brutally. They raped, murdered, scalped and flayed their way to the top... Oh, that sounds familiar doesn't it? It's like.... It's like it almost sounds as if every civilization on Earth has "stolen" land, but I guess it only matters if it happened like 500 years ago... God damn, you really are a retarded faggot, and not the gay kind, the kind of faggot that rides a Harley in all black leather and a micro-dick-compensating blower that wakes up the entire neighborhood. But I don't even care, I love your content regardless and it's obvious you put a lot of effort into it; especially the newer videos. If you even read this, I personally think your best content (and most lucrative for you) is when you're addressing weird communities(furries, extreme LGBT, etc.), instead of being divisive with politics...  kinda like Mister Metokur does; *except he's funnier* ..... _But you have better production value_
g'day from 'Straya mate... we used to have a white aussie policy but it got abolished a while ago I don't think there's any turning back now if we did we may as well return the land to its indigenous custodians.
While I don't remember the exact details, I did come across a little linguistic anecdote. A team of Australian linguists managed to find the last living speaker of an aboriginal dialect that wasn't recorded for posterity. And it would not ever be. The man they found, already quite old, refused to let them record him speaking the dialect. His reasoning was simple: All things fade eventually. And he was at peace with that. And ever since hearing about that my fears about change in culture and language also started fading. I have stopped rejecting change as a kneejerk reaction. Instead once I see a change becoming noticable I take a step back and ask myself: "Is this really a bad thing?" And since then there's been two things I came across that I will never fail to reject. One is fascism and its various forms, including white nationalism. The other is hardline libertarianism.
Not to be That Asshole, but you know- in Scandinavia, our 'tribal culture' is still thriving and we actually don't like when you call it that. Old Norse? What the fuck. You mean Danish, Swedish and Norweigian? Because that is Old Norse. The writing on Jellingestenen- or the Stone of Jelling, an ancient writing stone in Roskilde, Denmark is written in 'Old Norse' and you know what? We can still read it. Imagine it as old English. Embrace your American, because you can bet your ass that your picture of Scandinavian/European culture isn't close to the reality. Some people choose to still worship the Nordic gods too and we still have many of the cultural traditions from then as well. But of course, that doesn't matter to you. You just need a couple of fancy things to say as an argument and so you those a country far enough away that most people don't know enough about it. Thank you and see you never.
I'm not a white nationalist but there is verifiable proof of a movement for a one world order. Bitcoin is a part of that.
Isn’t the whole point of organisms having sex is that we would mix our genes together? Is it not beneficial to breed with people far away from your heritage so the genes would be more varied and be far away from interbredding? Which what i assume would happen if we made every culture stick to it own
I know its wrong but... Bitch your Nazi alter ego is the most fabulous look ever, and I want it to walk the runway.
I love that you can't even say many of these things without laughing loool
That is because Alt Right does NOT equal White Nationalism and it is a weak mind and weak logic that attempt to link and equate the two. I like that, because it is not hard to show the shifting sands of BS that is leftist fictional reality. I get to do this every day at work. I can demonstrate it to people who are bombarded by leftist ideology and then show them how and why it breaks down, how it conditions, and ultimately why it is built on a house of cards style fiction. I know It is effective because I can see the results immediately when I do so.
I like your real voice that can be heard when you sing here. I'm not a fan of the superficial squeaky tranny voice.
I like how people assume that because you don't hate Jews you lurve Israel. As if there isn't a classic American novel about a mass disagreement among Jews about Israel. Like, there are a ton of Jews who dislike Israel *waves*  (I just don't hate Israel the way racists hate Israel)  Also Japan's immigration policy is shameful.  And lots of European culture ain't going anywhere. The dresses are too pretty and the mythology is too hilariously fucked up.
Have to say bloody brilliant! In this divided land called America there has to be some common ground between the two sides I myself fall on both sides I'm not a biggot nor do I hate but at the same time I'm a proud straight Christian redneck male and one of my best friends is gay. Do I think whites are going extinct NO but at the same time I question the Talmud does that mean Jews should be rounded up Hell no. It's okay to question things but when it turns to out right hate then it's wrong on so many ignorant levels. Judge people by their character nothing more. I will say that mainstream media is to blame for a lot of the division in this nation which boils back to project mockingbird. Your neighbor isn't your enemy their in this boat with you your enemy is the government itself, Hollywood,and the mainstream media for they are the ones causing all this unessary tension!
contra is becoming a weeaboo  *finally*
I'll tell you what soothes *my* soul, that closing credits sequence. I could watch that for days.
ICH. BIN. EINE. HUND.
h bomberguy trying to get through the voice acting for those comments is the funniest fuckin thing.
MAXIMUM CUCKOLDRY
I can't get over the laughter during the narration of the comments. 😂😂😂😂😂 Fuck is wrong with you??? JK I fucking love this channel.
TRY THE WINE!! 🍷
HAI
>when you hear BWV1004 in a contrapoints video
It's not effective unless you speak in Plattdeutsch.
your german is adorable
You got my like, and a laugh, at the sk's! Omg. I love you so much.
Their most potent insult, they can think of, is about not getting to fuck the girl. It's about them, what they think they are entitled to, what they want, and their feelings. It's not about rational debate, the only reason these submeckoloids mention anything to do with 'argument' or 'rational debate' is because they got fucking destroyed by someone who made one against them in the past and now it seems like the most infected scar in their shit brains.  And you know, if it makes you scream the loudest, surely it's the right tool to inflict pain that mirrors your own inadequacies on others.
I am from germany and your german ist actually pretty good.
Extreme conservatives fears are also based on the lack of understanding that, what people consider "culture," is dying because of modernization, really cultural replacement. A lot of the old traditions are dying not because they're being replaced by other cultures' traditions, but by commodity perpetuated by technology that makes processes faster, easier, or non-human dependent: grandma recipes, clothes manufacturing, language learning, etc. If people were really worried that their culture  is dying, learning and passing on traditions involving the cultural elements mentioned before and beyond.
What I find particularly baffling about the very concept of an ethnostate is that it seems like it's arguing from what any racial supremacist should consider to be mass incest. Correct me if I'm wrong, but their logic goes like this: Racially pure people are genetically superior, so a nation composed entirely of one race is the best possible nation.  HOWEVER, "racial purity" in their eyes requires people to have kids with people who are genetically similar to them. But by that logic, incest will produce the purest possible individual and thus the most genetically superior person possible. But that's demonstrably not true because incest has a higher than normal chance of producing individuals with birth defects, which would mean the exact opposite for "racial purity" as a whole. And that means that the genetically superior individuals are actually people who are as mixed as possible, the opposite of "purity."  Racism must be a joke, right? There's no way anyone could think something that stupid AND ignore the results of thinking that.
Has anyone else pointed out Golden One's inability to use semicolons? How can we trust anyone who can't even use semicolons to lead our world? xD
You give me hope and make me smile.
White porn is better.
mad their genes are recessive lol
Old Norse genuinely still exists, too. Icelandic is the direct descendant of it and close enough to it that Icelanders can read it.
Pretty good German pronunciation.
contrapoint's farts smell like minorities.
I can't believe Newgrounds is still a thing. I'm in my 30s and Newgrounds was lame when I was in high school.
recently began binge watching your videos. that picture of the wire fence at the Hungarian border really struck a nerve in me, a nerve of shame for this so called country of mine.
I once had someone try to convince me Rock and Roll descended from rockabilly in a cultural vacume.  It felt like my brain was being squeezed through my nostril. O.O
Just watched like 7 of your videos in a row. Couldn't find a single thing I dissagree with. Made me worry that I'm sticking to my comfort zone too much. You know of any conservatist that actually got something valid to say?
How did you get Paul Joseph Watson to do voice over for your video?
The end of a race is bad if it is done by extermination. If we just chose wives that are from other race voluntary and our children do the same, there is no violence in there just a lot of sex with different people! How do people think this is equal to fill a train with people and kill them?
"There will be no Portugal"  Correct me if I'm wrong, as my only source on this is reading Muslim history from various monographs that are widely praised in academia... but isn't the Iberian Peninsula, ethnically, a melting pot of White, Arab and Black groups and hasn't it been for over a millennium???
Change is good. I dunno if genetic diversity actually benefits health of ppl, but u can't argue for medieval culture of islam and against inherent sociopathic traits of many blacks (not all). I work with many functional representatives from different cultures, hard working ppl, and regrettably, they don't represent the majority.
I'd like to point out that a form of almost pure Old Norse is still spoken by more than 300,000 people today! Have the white nationalists forgot about Iceland?
This video had a decent amount of cowbell
That ASMR bit was hilarious
Gotta love the "You have no argument" argument. Talk about the ultimate cowardly dismissal!
I think it's important to note that Africans weren't simply ripped from their homelands by European slave-traders. The majority of African slaves were enslaved by Africans. It may seem like I'm trying to excuse the Atlantic slave-trade, but I'm absolutely not. What I am saying is that the high demand for slaves among Europeans caused entire kingdoms to rise in Africa based on the slave trade, and, because slaves were usually captured through war, the Atlantic slave trade caused immense instability between kingdoms and tribes who engaged in war in order to obtain slaves. Basically, it's important to understand that African slaves were usually enslaved by Africans because it helps us to understand how the Atlantic slave trade not only resulted in prevalent racism, but it also caused massive political instability in the continent of Africa.
A fun thing that just happened: there's this party called "Alternativ för Sverige" - "AFS" ("alternative for Sweden"), which is basically nationalists that found the nationalist alternative too wimpy and easy on foreigners. They held a demonstration in Stockholm on Friday, and in one video from the event, you see The Golden One chanting along with them.
What the hell
Thank you God. I mean thank you ContraPoints
08:08 PEOPLE LITERALLY SPEAK NORWEGAIN STILL what is that mofo on about, of course not the old old dialect because languages evolve. I can’t deal with these  people
You're the best❤❤❤
Lindsay Ellis's southern accent is so darling
the world is ment to change. we don't look anything like our original ancestors who, believe it or not, ALL CAME FROM AFRICA, and were all swarthy dark burly grunting dummies, who spread out all over the planet and eventual their genetic make-up changed, diluted, or concentrated depending on who fucked who and who died first over thousands of years. The first civilizations were in dank river valleys such as Mesopotamia (Modern Iraq), The Nile River Valley (Modern Egypt), Indus River Valley (Modern India) and the Yellow River Valley (Modern China); all these places that are not considered "The West". West is a direction, not a place losers. THE WORLD IS NOT FLAT!  Everyone talks about making the west great again and I'm like, why? When it's "Great" it's just a big bully to the rest of the world and treats the common people within it like shit. The Greeks were jerks, the Romans were assholes, the Vikings were dicks, and they all just fucked each other up until the content shattered into a bunch of tiny kingdoms who kept fisting each other over barrels for centuries until the Plague wiped most of Europe out. That plague came from India and China and they looked at Europe like "Ya'll couldn't handle that?"  And then European "Explores" spread cholera and small pox around the whole fucking world in return like "How you like dem apples?".  While they were at it they decided to just take the new found continent from the people who were living there, (They had  dank river valley civilizations too) and force everyone to convert or die. But oh, they killed too any off. Who will work on the tobacco and sugar plantations now? Lets just ship some "workers" over Africa and make them do it.  White people have fucked over ever single other race, and before you said "Other races do/did this too", NO OTHER RACE HAS DONE THIS SHIT ON THE SAME SCALE AS WHITE PEOPLE! OR WESTERNERS ASDFGHJHGFDDGFHJSHDHGSGKHDUSFYUSGYFYDUKHS WHATEVER! Now, I like "Western" culture. There are good things about it. October Fest is lots of fun. Jerry Springier is a funny show where white trash go to air out their dirty laundry. Christmas and Halloween are the dankest of all holidays. I love craft and hobby stores and antiquing is LIFE, but these things aren't going anywhere, we don't have to preserve them. People all over the world experience and appreciate "Western" culture in it's good points. But this is not what the alt-right is trying to preserve anyway. What they are trying to preserve is the conquering  Alexander the Greats, Julius Cesars, Napoleon Bonapartes, Adolph Hitlers and Donald Trumps who where and are big men, big egos, over compensations, who think they have to rule it all and keep it for themselves.  I'm going to stop here, no one is going to read all this anyway....
Has Sargon promoted "White Genocide"?
The Romans The Celts The Germanics The Vandals The Goths The Huns The Langobards The Saxons The Slavs The Jews The Sinti and Roma The Hugenots...  They all lived in or came to what is Germany today and are ancestors of today's population.  Add to that the Swedes and the French and the US-Americans and whoever else stayed after some war, and also add to that the craftsmen from Italy or Byzantium or Portugal...  And then tell me again how to protect my culture against immigration!  In just a hundred years the Turks and the Arabs and the Vietnamese and the Eritreans and all the other people who come to Germany today will be just as much part of the populace as the others are today.   ^That's to all the right-wing nutjobs whom Contra talks about in the video. Those who are afraid of the "European Race" being wiped out.
Cuck *Het* (no) Cuckn't *DA* (yes)
Existential dread it is. Humanity keeps inventing prosthetic half measures instead of learning that the only constant is the change itself and that change, not a fridge, is the one thing keeping everything alive. Maybe it's because our life is short and the turtles and the parrots and the trees have access to more time while being so unpromising and unsophisticated.
And another thing, have you looked in the history of the Brythonic people in England and Scotland or the Greek people in Anatolia? Cultural death is a real thing.
I think you forget people hate change, why encourage change?
,,, your Japanese&German is convincing. Are you just really good at mimicking languages, or do you actually know them?
I'VE GOT A FEVAH AND THE ONLY PRESCRIPTION....IS MORE COWBELL~
Contra Is such a talented lady
Who the heck is the narrator for this?
the deserving idea is how imperialism started and let to a lot of shitty people in America especially
It's sad that your previous video was reported for hate speech. You know, for people that claim that liberals and lefties get triggered so easily, they go crazy whenever someone says something that they dont like (oh, and I see videos from the right that attack individuals and groups of people, but those videos get much better treatment by YouTube).
Came for the dress, stayed for the boots.  I always find it rather ironic that the white nationalists worship japan so much, a country which, while it has restrictive immigration policies, is known for its near english-like pattern of obsessively absorbing pretty much any  little bit of external culture it can get its hands on.
Well, I agree with your points; but if you are referring to a white genocide not occuring -- you are incorrect as there is a clear genocide threat level in South Africa.  If you are referring to the "White Genocide Theory" in the US, then yeah you're right.
Another example of whitewashing live action animé lmao
@1:49 over 9000? LOL
The Norse bit is great my buddy at Reykjavik university got a laugh
ａｒｕｔｏ－ｒａｉｔｏ 『アルト・ライト』
Rock around the bunker.
Needs more cow bell
I've been into Norse and Pagan religions and I did a lot of research about it over the years. I don't understand how anyone who does do the research could believe in keeping cultures separate. It's pretty well known that the Viking age societies that were willing to meet up with other cultures and assimilate still survive in our bloodlines today. The ones that refused usually died out. One case I can think of is the settlement that was very isolated and the natives tried to teach them how to hunt and fish in that particular climate, but that settlement was so racist that they refused and ended up starving to death on the ice and getting eaten by animals. Good riddance to bad rubbish.
I’ve heard this human mention “the Jewish question” several times, but I’m not sure what it is. Internet, pls do your worst, I’ll assume at least one answer is correct.
It's funny to me that they always keep saying Japan is an ethnostate. I always see these people idolizing it. But Japan is not an ethnostate.
TWO Beyoncé references in this video! I live....
I thought that was hbomberguy’s voice. That dude is a fucking legend
at what point is metamorphosis indistinguishable from death?
I kind of already knew that the primary driving force behind racist movements is a deep primordial, existential fear, but when you verbalized it as you did, suddenly Lovecraft's literature made a lot more sense.
LUV U DOOD
I like how Hbomb can't read anything without devolving into hysterical laughter
I am so in love with you and your episode personality that it’s not even funny. Your videos are amazing!
Whose child did you sacrifice to John Waters to get that sense of humor and aesthetic style?
You're my hero!
You still didnt make a proper argument.  Lol jk. That was amazing. Love from san diego.
More cowbell!
This world needs less white nationalists/supremacists and more cowbell
In my eyes the left and right are both disgusting and can’t be reasoned with.
1+1=3
Fear the immigrant and cultural hybridization, as you eat your pizza and tacos and celebrate St. Patrick's Day.
I want ContraPoints to whisper sweet nothings to me in German
Hail the gods. Fuck racists.
it's all about penis envy
You forgot jizz.
You are brilliant!!! I want everyone I know to see you. You need a weekly tv show where you can explain modern sociology to a wider audience. Just shared you with my friends
My partner is a Norse Pagan/Odinist, and trans, multicultural and a communist. Don't use Odin and Thor to excuse your idiotic racism. They had settlements across the world, including the Middle East, Africa, and the Americas, so unlikely that they were racists.
a pitty you can only like once!!!!
Production values are high with this one, Dang.
They just need love. (And some girl-penis, too)
I like your manly AND womanly voice. And regarding loss of culture, the only way a culture can be lost if the people practicing it are so insecure of their value that they ditch it for another.
I didn't expect HBomberguy's voice 😍
Ich habe den Channel dieses schrägen Schlamperichs soeben abonniert.
This channel is rapidly becoming one of my favorites. Thank you so much. Keep dropping those truth bombs.
New fan here. Instantly obsessed with your videos. 😅❤️🔥
>western Europe should be as big a shithole as peru...
Alt-Right, making decent human beings feel better about themselves since (however long they existed). Because no matter how bad you have it, at least you don't base your world view out of what color vag you crawled out of.
Needs more cowbell. More seriously, Vox posted a video called "The fractured politics of a browning America" which also frames the issue as one of fear. But the interesting point is that it isn't just whites that react with fear to demographic changes. Ironically, blacks, Asians, and Hispanics do as well. So the future of the alt-right could be a multi-ethnic coalition working together to elect Republicans.
2:03 PURE SEXAPEAL
I've seen a lot of people complaining lately about comments that just quote parts of the video but...    "CARLOS!!!" 😂
Without change, there can be no life. Duh. More cowbell!
Nationalism as a concept is already stupid. Civilization itself is basically a forced tyranny upon us, but then you have idiots who think they have a say in how things work around here. Pro-tip: you don't. You'll never actually have a say, because the people that are actually in charge don't know or care who you are. They exist in places you'll never find, let alone penetrate. At best you're a cheerleader for the worst thing to happen to the human creature, at worst a useful idiot for whatever whim those in control decide.  The only position that makes sense anymore is aggressive individualism: Oppose EVERYONE. Acknowledge no master, follow no god, and be beholden to no one. Understand that the only thing you control is yourself, and let go of false notions of fellowship or society. That is the only way to escape the systems of control they really are, and above all else reject partisanship. Reject power and politics itself. Only when you are a sole entity can you be free, when you alone are responsible for your words and actions.  You want to find free people? They don't have the internet, they live in the hills. They live in the shadows, far from prying eyes and outside of the grasp of the state. They live simply, and are rarely seen by us in society, and they like it that way. It may sound strange and even dangerous, but to engage with society on any level immediately implies submission to every form of control it imposes. Laws, folkways, morals, all carefully designed and coordinated to make you an obedient servant of the state, and obedience is the antithesis of freedom.
I always laugh when she comes out in full feminazi regalia ahhahahaha
ROCK AND ROLL, GIRL. \m/
Hmmm... Needs more cow bell.
BWV 1001, you're welcome. Also hot damn you look good in a slutty nazi outfit.
Literally best youtuber
Many believe that we deserve the right to our own ethnostate because we deserve the right to preserve our White cultures, traditions, religions, homelands, and by extension our race.  Whites currently live in a society that demonizes us, tells us that to be White is shameful and makes us inherently evil and the only way to cleanse ourselves of our sins and the sins of our fathers is to allow POCs to trash us a whole group of people and allow forced immigration and multiculturalism into our homelands (Countries that have been White dominant for hundreds/thousands of years).  Cultures do change a bit over time, but not at the drastic pace it is now, and not by other cultures that have nothing in common with our own (Middle Eastern and African that do have rape cultures, pedophilia cultures, and cultures of modern violence and intolerance which is undeniable). This is also why you tend to see the Right talking about the benefits of Eurasian race (European/Asian - Japan, South Korea, Chinese mainly), because our Western White culture and their East Asian culture is very similar in terms of things We socially, traditionally, culturally, etc strive for.  We are constantly told we have no culture or homeland, so when people want to tear it from us, we let it happen because 'it never existed in the first place'.
Hai
It pains me that I can't like your videos multiple times.
Dat ASMR, tho!
So as an audio engineer. The most infuriating part of this video (for me) was when you panned your voice in the opposite direction of where you're head was in the mic. I had to take out my ear buds to double check they were the right orientation and listen to it three times.  I'm so angry right now.... lol
That thing about Norsk: that's how languages work xD
Great video. And you speak english, german and japanese? wow
That intro is what I wish my everyday life could be .
Do you know allot of languages or has google translate been really kind to you
Not gonna lie your vids (as well with a lot of other central/leftist media) bring me back from a alt-lite echo chamber that I was trapped in and now while I’m still economically right I’m much more culturally left and consider myself a centerist so thanks for that
7:31 Lindsay?
2:00 I died here.
The concept of whiteness is unstable. Do. I. Smell. A POSTMODERNIST???   I agree though. Whiteness is artificial.
What the alt-right fears: "All people are created equal"
What the **** was with the intro?
What's your dolls name? She's gorgeous
I just can't believe I found you just today.
Contrapoints you are the best and I adore you.   I love your decadence, I love your candor, I love the dashes of vaporwave. I have a sociology degree and 15 years of grassroots activism so I know left from right and you explain this shit better than anyone.   I have been trying to explain fascism to folks since 11/9 (http://futureisfiction.com/what-is-fascism/) and I liken it to an infantile fear, a desperate childlike yearning for a father-figure who will protect them from the barbarian Other banging on the door. But I hadn't thought of it as a desire to freeze the culture in the present, that connection with the ultimate fear of the void, of being lost to history and nothingness...that's deep shit.   Thank you. Have a cosmo, you deserve it.
A 'white' ethnostate for 'white' culture.. what exactly do these alt-righters think that would entail? What exactly is 'white' culture? German, Greek, British, Spanish? Scandinavian, Italian? What about hispanics who identify as white? What about their culture? What about white Muslims? Mixed-race people?  What the fuck does 'white' even mean to these people anyway? What a stupid argument and worldview these people have.
As a peruvian, i can attest we are multicultural as fuck. I myself have native american, white and black ancestors. Wouldn’t be surprised to find some asian ancenstry too
There IS a white ethnostate, but it's not completely closed off from immigration like the alt-right would like it to be. It's called the EU.
it reminds me of like the fear of change, like the 'purebloods' in harry potter, men like Voldermort that feared progress and feared it would lead to their own demise.
I feel like some of their beliefs are rooted in social darwinism, which is related to their fears. And this seems to be related to a misunderstanding of genetics, because they believe that admixture is "dying out," which makes no biological sense.
Dude! Well thought out, funny, intelligent, and highly relatable. I am so deeply impressed by you I can't even believe it. I just found your videos and I freak love you!!! I wish I could get a beer with you....seriously....I'm in love with you
These people are idiots the only reason we didn't have as much ethnic mixing in the past is because we didn't have the transportation necessary to do so. Flipping fear mongering imbeciles.
The Nazi ASMR part had me spitting out my coffee
A la jetee reference!
One thing that annoys the crap out of me about the white ethnostate thing, is the fact that WHITE ISN'T AN ETHNICITY. There are already ethnostates for ethnicities which are considered white. That's basically every European country. But race and ethnicity are not the same, and the terminology bugs me. And I don't care if that's a pedantic concern!
What are your pronouns?
I did not have to see contra points upskirt Likely ever.
During most of Europe's history, there were huge areas who were populated by Celtic peoples. They had a beautiful culture, and thousands of years of tradition and language. But, as time moved on, other peoples started to slowly wither away at their lands: The Roman Empire, the Germanic Tribes, and, eventually, the Slavs. But there was one place where Celtic culture still stood proud: The British Isles. the last truly celtic region on the Earth. But it wasn't meant to last, sadly. As the Middle Ages started, the Anglo Saxons, a germanic tribe, invaded Britain. They slowly started opressing the native celts, and push them up north, until England was born. But that wasn't the worse. As time went by, the kingdom of England begun slowly conquering the last celtic parts of the isles, Scotland and Ireland, and not only that, but destroy their culture. Today, how many people in those regions speak Irish, or Scottish Gaelic? Almost all speak English. And it hasn't stopped. Today these regions are also subject to mass waves of immigration, overunning these regions already small population (as well as erasing their very particular looks: Gingers are slowly becoming more rare, which is truly sad).  Do I wish Irish people still lived in the 6th century? Of course not. Change can be good. But not all change is good. I wish to preserve these cultures, not lock them on stone. To conserve the beauty of this world, like you'd do to a endangered bird species, or a panda. I don't expect you to understand it. People have different priorities. But this is something very important to me. People are not phone cases. You can't replace one for the other and expect it to be the same. Think of it as a preservationist approach. (and before people point out South Africa or the americas: While I can't fully disaprove of colonialism, seeing as I would not exist without it, I abhor the terrible way that zulus, and specially native americans, were treated. This is specially true for the Mayans, whose complete opression I find uterlly disgusting considering their long and amazing history. I personally find that Mayan should be the offical language of Guatemala, seeing as the majority of people there are Mayans).
2:08 sis i wish i could dress as good as you
Maximum Cuckoldry ACTIVATE!!, yeah sounds like the worst superpower ever.
How dare you! I have an e!
I was listening to this while driving, and though I laughed at your pronunciation, I WAS able to understand everything you were saying. So, それは gut, ich glaube.
Where's the award🏆
These white nationalists want an ethnostate. Do they not realize that Wyoming exists ?
Are you refering to Anita Sarkisian? Because she is just a scam...
Ya Know, I Think We Need More Cowbell!
The momentum of the YouTube algorithm pushing people to JBP or anti sjw videos has a huge impact on the culture.  Anyone know any good vids on this?
What these little basterds like to forget (or just ignore) is that "urvopa" was never homogeneous, like with Britain and Ireland
well i just follow the idea intolerance for intolerance do people want to hurt others work against them or at least don't aid
I appreciated the monty python's holy grail reference.
Hello I recently discovered your channel and I think you are hilarious and informative. I think we might disagree on a great deal, as I'm a conservative charismatic Christian, but I find you deeply entertaining in the sense that I wish we were friends IRL. You put so much detail and art into the execution of your videos. I'm so impressed, and I love listening to you articulate your ideas, even when I disagree with them. We're at odds intellectually on various issues, but I feel a real kinship to you as I watch, like feeling a connection to an author when reading a really good book or a connection to creator of a masterful painting. I wish you great happiness and joy in your work, as well as financial peace and relational stability.
was that one mr harris i heard
American black culture resonates in Brasil's black people as well, it seems to me. So there's a bit of union among black people, but it's way different than white people union around the white nationalism ideal, because slavery did took part on both countries history and erased the origin of many black people, so they were left with no culture of their own. Interesting to note is that most brazilians (black and white) are proud of their country, specially when they're away from Brasil... A similar union of black people happens in Africa, but again, their borders were drawn by europeans not considering the local history, wich resulted in ethnic wars, like in Rwanda, so there was no real union of black people before the interference of europeans. Also it's interesting to note that italians hate each other when it comes to north and south. Actually europe hates itself. French, italians, germans, all distrust themselves. I think there's friendship between poland and Hungary. Maybe Italy and Spain, but again, spain doesn't want to be a country anymore...  It feels like I'm rambling, maybe your nazi outfit with a feminist botton on topmade my heart skip a beat...
Intolerance killed the old Norse ways of doing things. My ancestors' leaders converted to Christianity out of fear and greed and sold the people out. Like the at Massacre of Verden. Old ways can be preserved by forging them with new ones. It takes adaptation and perseverance to survive.
your old video is not available in my country! how come?
Your videos are incredibly respectful unlike lots of other people in your crowd, I used to be center left but your respectfulness and high quality videos as well of those of hdbomberguy have made me more left then I was and change me opinion on a few subjects.
Lyndsay Ellis brought me here. Gonna go find the Anarcho Cat girl videos now bye.
After reading up on some politics for the up coming election here in Sweden, I found that I landed on the right side of the political spectrum (more center on most questions but whatever). I have also been watching tons of Jordan Petersson, "SJW cringe compilations" and so forth. But I felt I was getting too heavily dragged in so I looked for arguments made from "the other side", here I found you and HBomberguy, and now I share opinions with both sides but on different topics. No one can be absolutely right about something and everyone should make sure they truly can stand by what they are arguing for. This channel is a great chance for another perspective, so thank you. I've subscribed :)
So my nation of Israel just passed a law that made racial segregation legal, sorta.
Old Norse survives pretty much intact in Icelandic. btw you could make a bomb catering to futanari freaks.
I like my weman like my coffee, *with a dick on it*
yeah. I HATE that song. it's gay as fuck. should have sang real old blues like you do. or Led Zeppelin. ANYTHING BUT THAT SONG!!!!! ;-;
<3
Ich wird gern nit dir uber die JudenFrage Sprechen du VollIdiot
"It takes alot more than a couple of immigrants to change a culture" Try and buy a club sandwich in denmark with real bacon.
damn, nice les paul
OG character turned evil later
The guy who said that if you were ever found in a dress by a group of Muslims who obey Sharia Law would KILL you is TRUE - debunk THAT!
Woah are you bilingual? What a queen
The use of Hbomberguy as a voice actor is really rad.
>"identity crisis" Oh the irony
"Also also wik"... Monty Python?
Why can you do everything? Its unfear, my race of onanistic immature and nostalgic creeps will be extermina............
All that leather? So hot??
Oy vey another shoah
Oh and you are very right. Fear is very much what this is about. White people that think like this act absolutely insane when they are fearful.
If they want a place that is only filled with their own people.... Maybe they shouldn't have spread throughout the world and literally brought other people and cultures in to their places... There are actually some isolated places that aren't tribal or aboriginal that have some rather rare "white people" as the only real "blood line" any how. They just don't rule the world and most people have no idea who they are or that they exist, which is what isolation would do...
I fucking love this.
As a german Hearing u talk german all of a sudden gave me serious whiplash and I love it
Phew! I was worried about Europe for nothing! I guess as long as Europeans still have _Eurovision™_  50 years from now, we will be  "a-okay". xD This guys a riot AND a friend of the alt-right (unwittingly mind you...)
who are you i love you
shaun is the best
Contra, you have a no contact policy with the "alt right". Response videos have been done to you and you are mocked among the groups that debate while you sit in this little unproductive echochamber and sprinkle a little cinematic joy over weak arguments for things you believe. Show up to a debate with Andywarski, you'll be applauded for doing such, not lying; you'd be respected for breaking out of your little chamber for once.
In Revenge of the Sith, Yoda said something to the future Darth Vader like "fear leads to anger. Anger leads to hate. Hate leads to suffering. A pathway to the Dark Side, that is." Good on you for recognizing that the Alt-Right is motivated more by fear than by hate.
Just a funny detail. The piece you used for your Nazi part 'Unter dem Doppeladler' is an Austro-Hungarian military march, not a German one. This empire was actually the most multicultural state in pre-WWI Europe and was eventually torn apart by the attempts of the nationalist movements of its constituent peoples to establish ethnostates, which usually treated their ethnic and religious minorities quite poorly.
Needs more cowbell
Sick video contra! Also, you are very cute😍!
Don't listen to the trolls, they just can't rock the nazi uniform as fabulous as you do :)
OMG you look glorious, I love those myserious lighting, makes you look ethereal and you're absolutely on point. I'm actually from that country where that fence was placed and I'm disgusted! Not only the government is trampling on human rights and rewrote the constitution so that "the state's first and foremost role is to protect HUngarian culture" rather than, I don't know, people's rights??? What's worse this fearmongreling is only used to take the attention away from the corruption, the shitty education, the garbage healthcare - even though we're supposed to have universal healthcare people are left to die on hospital beds unless you pay in the doctor's pocket - or how teachers earn so little that they can barely pay their rent let alone eat. And the most mindblowing to me of all that thorough out history WE ACTUALLY INVITED IMMIGRANTS MULTIPLE TIMES (granted the country was bigger but that's another matter). Our history is the proof that yes, foreigners CAN intengrate and what's happening today is just rubbish. Thank you for this video, have a nice day!
So good! I am glad I found this channel.
This comment directed at “Proud Boys”: And “the left” are gay cucks? You literally tattoo “proud boy” onto your bodies. Sounds pretty gay to me. Not that there’s anything wrong with that. Just admit it you like giving each other “brojobs”.
You should have a Love Live cameo in their upcoming movie.
Black bloc from Spokane to Stockton CA 📌 🖕❄🖕❄🖕
This is a great video. Its interesting, well made and you have good arguments. Good job.
So, these people need to watch Ghost In The Shell. Synthesis is necessary for progress. Move forward, or stagnate and rot.
Spot on! :D Also, speaking as a German person - fffuck me, your deviant nazi impression is the funniest I've ever seen in my life, and I honestly can't express how much I appreciate this video
Her German is very good.
Fritz is my spirit animal.
1:42 Ah it's my boi Colton Streicher   On Facebook he had a Hitler moustache to go with that big ass Nazi flag at one point.
I still think that my random, drunk, not funny comments on the issue are just as good. We can't all be talented.
In all seriousness, how many languages do you speak? Or do you rehearse each bit in the language to get the pronunciation right?
Hola @contrapoints I find your videos very interesting. Could you apply your argument about the resilience of culture to people who are upset by perceived instances of cultural appropriation? i.e. it's not really of significance, "it could be a thousand times worse" and the culture will still survive in a meaningful way. I would be grateful for your thoughts on this!
Just the right amount of cowbell
Sk Sk Sk Sk Sk Sk
I found a genuine creepy doll now in about the same size, she will be in my vids pretty soon i hope... ha ha!
MAXIMUM CUCKOLDRY!!!  That killed me. Do these cretins not realize how hilarious they sound?
Hai!!!
Also also wik! Love that reference to one of my favourite films! And Contra rocks too! Is there anything you can't do?!
P-P-P-P-P-P-Pantsu?! Nani?!
You are fantastic
You fucking did it, you sang in a fem baritone. Have a medal.
Why do Jews have a country... well, it seemed like a good solution to a problem at the time. What problem? Perhaps one originating from the granddaddies and great-granddaddies (at least ideological ones, the actual ansectors might have been decent people) of the white nationalists. [que the endless debate] which leads eventually to the "strange bedfellows" situation with the Rabbi.
3/4 of that german wasn't even that bad! But still, it's sad that germans are portrayed that way. I think it's annoying that we get reduced to nazism alone.
love you, mom
Why is your Nazi Girl look the one I like the best? I'm thinking I know I should not like this look....but I DO! I guess it's the we like whats bad for us thing. Anyway great vid as usual.
Jesus, I must really be what the Alt-Right fears. I'm Puerto Rican with distant Slavic ancestry on my father's side (my last name is Croatian/Montenegrin and I'm olive skinned with wavy hair and can rrrrrrrollll my RRRRRssss like the next Rican).   And my wife and daughter are...JEWISH (somewhere, Richard Spencer is having a stroke). MURICA BABY.
hi
Hey your Japanese is pretty good.  Definitely keep studying.
Your German is really good! If you should ever come to Germany, let me know and I'll buy you a beer! And if you do the ASMR thing to me, I'll gladly agree to be your slave, or master, ganz nach Belieben.
leather mommy
OH MY GOD! Just found you out, and I'm already in love! What a great video. On point and solid on the argument, fabulous punk chaos glory on form. Just beautiful. Cant't wait  to go through the channel. Not sure if I'm the first but you've just got a fan in Brazil. Lacrou!
Another big problem with the goals of these white nationalist is that they are greatly naive if you are to take their rationale at face value. For example, even if they had their white ethnostate, would it also be culturally, ideologically and economically homogeneous? Unless the society enforces total  homogeny and removes all avenues and impulses otherwise, there is going to be conflict all the time, and some incredibly drastic conflict, over politics, social class and status, religion etc. It's not as if the largely white Europeans of the past didn't kill a ton of each other over these various things. But the white nationalists use the term culture exclusively along ethnic lines, and as such they employ a falsehood that a homogeneously ethnic cociety will somehow avoid the social, cultural and ideological conflict within which they fear. It won't, unless that society is also totalitarian, and even then that won't avoid conflict because authoritarianism can only exist in adversity to others.
i didn't realize the alt-right wanted a nation of just white people.  i am surprisingly fine with that.  can we send them all there right now?  maybe we could just make it russia, there's plenty of room there.  send all the alt-right to russia and send all the oppressed free thinkers in russia back here.  problem solved
thank you! you don't need to be a fucking racist twat to celebrate your culture. my dad's side of the family is from italy, and twice a year, we all meet up in new jersey, eat a shit ton of meat and pasta, roughhouse and go fishing. to be fair, we celebrate our heratige primarily with food, and that might be different for different people. despite the fact that we are italian, you know, the country that fucking INVENTED fascism, we manage to have a great time and celebrate who we are without being absolute dickweeds. like, seriously guys. you do not need to shit on other people to lift up your own culture. the difference is that being white is a race, and being italian is an ethnicity. the whole "black pride" thing is because, like she mentioned in the video, african culture was run through hell and back and it's difficult for black people, especially in america, to trace their ancestry back to anything before slavery, which was something enforced based on race, not ethnicity. most other POC i've met don't tend to go "asian pride!" or whatever. wanna know why? CAUSE ASIA IS FUCKING HUGE. seriously, it's not one ethnicity. at the very best, people go "south asian pride!" or "east asian pride!" or "indian pride!" and so on and so forth. if you wanna have pride, awesome! go ahead! go trace your ancestry to germany or italiy or france or czech or whatever! but don't be a twatwaffle and go "white pride" because the only thing all white people have in common is historically benefiting from racsism, and that's not something you should be proud of.
I would have voted for Trump only because one can trust a bumbling idiot better than a person with (to put it kindly) a track record of making life costing mistakes and criminally covering it up. I've been fear mongered into fearing dating by the MGTOW community (which was debunked by Genuine Peach) I've watched channels like suit yourself, sargan of akaad, bearing, the quartering (all channels I continue to watch by the way) and yet I'm so glad I've found this channel as well as Shaun's. I see the democrats and republicans as two sides of the same coin who make terrible policy by themselves but when put together make a lot of sense. As much as I love your content as well as Shaun's, I wish you to see the moderate conservative's understanding of politics as well (which it seems you do) Always remember that perception is reality in politics. I wish you well and despite being raised in the bible belt, keep it up and as long as the democratic canadate is reasonable and not a straight up mur-er I mean fuck up, I may actually vote democrat instead of third party or not at all next election season. It might not matter though, my vote gets casted in a blood red state of Arkansas.
have a very close relative who believes in this crap, how to change mind??
So here's the thing with ContraPoints:  https://theviolentink.blog/2018/06/09/trotsky-and-noel-coward-walked-into-a-bar-some-notes-on-natalie-parrott-contrapoints/
Wow your german is good!
Your videos are amazing, never stop :)
Contra, why are you fighting the alt-right based on unfounded suspicions that they are "Nazis", when the neocon establishment has PROVEN to be Nazis?  The logical thing to do would be to team up with the alt-right, tear down the establishment and THEN you and the alt-right can battle to the death.
OMG the  left side of thumbnail.
i used to be muslim and i can confirm, i used to rape people all day.
If we had a white ethno state we'd be killing and hating eachother left and right.
And this is why I'm nihilistic it doesn't matter which race goes first we are going to extinct ourselves as a species if we keep going the way we're going on this planet doesn't matter how many plants we cultivate and terraform if we keep treating The Rock we're on like crap are going to eventually die as a species it's not a matter of how it's a matter of when .but then we have the supposedly alpha males that keep pushing b*******
Keep making content, it will only help the cause
Man I’m so late to this party. CP should be arrested; she’s killing them out here. Love it.
I never understood, amongst all, specifically American ethnotards. They by far take the cake as the most retarded of that lot. You cannot make America an ethnostate because it's always been mixed in its nature. If anything, it demonstrated how you can have a successful multiethnic, mixed-culture nation that possesses a strong national identity without basing it on ethnic origin.
your voice is so buttery in this video.
Everything you do is glorious ;-;
https://youtu.be/NyXt5dPEfeQ
I love this channel, it's top kek! (I don't know what that means)
how many languages do you speak?? I'm amazed. Your German was on point, as seems to be your Japanese!
I found your channel through hbomberguy on twitter.  Thank you so much for all your work and all of this information.  I'm excited to watch the rest of your videos and learn more!
american "culture" I'm not sure you can call that culture  There was an american culture, it was practically wiped out by the anglo barbarians
You know what that song needed?....more cowbell!😝😛😂
Even tho it seems not to be a a point anyone really would pick up as an major part of this (over a year old) video, I wanted to make a point. You said are against any ethnostates and then listed Japan and Israel, since I never heard anything about Japan as an ethnostate and I'm neither cultural nor political invested in anything about Japan aside from the occasional Anime, I didn't care about that comment to much. But I thing it's a problem to call Israel an ethnostate, especially while talking about a white ethnostate as the goal of white supremacists and the Alt-Right. Israels existence is necessitated by an actual tread against jews (not meaning people being part of the jewish religion but of a jewish race as witch they get defined mostly by their oppressor), and Israel is not a homogeneous State, it's is just protecting the jewish majority. I would give you, that in an society of free and equal humans we would not need any states like Israel, and that this would be the goal to strive for, but since Antisemitism is a very really problem and thread to jewish people Israel is necessary, and other states, protecting other minority might be as well (I'm thinking of the kurds for example, and can for sure say that white people don't need one and probably never will). I discovered you just yesterday, and really started bingewatching your Videos, great work keep it up, this was the first "major" problem I had with your work.
Impressive german there
The one World Government destroyed Basque-Icelandic pidgin
You are unique. We don't deserve your nuance, cleverness and empathy :P. Just joking, I'm grateful we have you.
For the first thirty seconds all I could think was "what in the goddamn fuck am I looking at?"
I love hearing the voices of my favorite youtubers in the videos of my other favorite youtubers.
Watching your videos at midnight on a tele; there's way too much too look at and it became a hot mess all over my fac- I mean screen  Also please do more stuff with hbomberdaddy xx
please reveal your sun and moon sign my body hurts how badly i need to know i am beginning to See Sound
Awesome!
Coughlan gives a new meaning to the term "Surprise Dick".
Gawd Dayum thank you for fighting the good fight.
Sure, white nationalists, it had NOTHING to do with the fact that the Dutch, Franks, and English stole our great boat designs, ending our Norse rule of the sea. Also, stop citing Scandinavians for reasons you cornfed hillbillies are worth more than the shit you leave on YouTube. We're better than you are, so stop trying to steal our valour. Ask any Scandinavian. We all think American national conservatism is a clown show. Grow up, learn to run a society, and leave my vastly superiour ass out of your propaganda.
Thanks!
I'm into cross-dress nazi trans twink rock, you've probably never heard of it
Wait, so Islamic immigration isn’t causing additional rape in European countries?
You and Shaun are saints. May the mighty Cuthulu bless you
Most cultures are hodgepodges of borrowed, cobbled-together beliefs and ideas. In fact, this has always been a great strength of the West.  Which is why the alt-right AND the idea of cultural appropriation are bullshit.  You do realize you've just argued against both, right?
Was that Hbomberguy?
Why you don't have a million subs is a mystery to me. V. Entertaining!
Well now China and India have loads of ethnic groups but their all similar, it’s like saying the EU has multiple ethnic groups such as the Germans, Dutch, Polish. Also the uyghers and Tibetans are treated badly by the Chinese governments as far as I know, then there’s India’s class system and how the Dravidians have been treated, then there’s Russia who basically Russified North Asian Siberia,  Also I like you, and I think you have great arguments, and I’m not a nationalist, but it is fun to debate smart people,
"there si no way to top cultures from changing" Sure there is not. Problem is do we change for the better or the worse? And there is a lot we can do to determine that.
No your stupid. The Japanese nation is till Japanese. Nation is an organic union of ethnic groups.
you do not condemn the African states though do you stupid woman? They are black ethnostates. But of course that would not be PC...
Funny thing. When Trump voters were polled as to why they voted for him, the most common answer wasn't economics...
Wait...you are well versed in the ideology of numerous viewpoints and play numerous instruments? Congratulations, you are now my favorite polymath!
Oh yes, talk german to me :D
KWEEN
FYI, most multicultural country is Austrailia :)
See what I don't get about ethnic isolationists is that if the races are genuinely different, then it makes more sense - for genetic health of the species in general - to mix, not separate. We know we had a population crash a few hundred thousand years back, so we need to mix to get some diversity in which makes each group less susceptible to epidemics. And if the races aren't different, then it doesn't matter either way. Bizarre.
I love you! Thanks so much!
11:02 This!
Lovely boots!
Funny. Also the nazi outfit is sexy.
I officially love your channel with that ending. You are awesome and mind blowing and funny.
How are you even real
Omg the golden one comment had me tearing up haha. I dont agree on alot of your ideas but you are talented for sure ^^
I love that hmbomberguy could barely keep a straight face when reading the comments.
Weeb Contra is best Contra.
I do support your alt-right ideology bashing and I love your outfit but I have to point out that Sargon of Akkad is a classical British liberal and not alt-right. To be fair he likes to shitpost but it’s for the memes and laughs.   Also I’m against actually assaulting nazis even if their ideology is fucked up because hunting and marginalizing them only strengthens their fear of being “wiped out by the freakin commies and the blacks”. It would be far better in my opinion if we just talked to them and showed them we are not to be feared or hated and just wanna live our lives our way and we will let them be white if they want as long as they leave us alone.  Idk 🤷🏼‍♂️ maybe I’m just to much of a pacifist to even punch a nazi.  *insert “I would not even punch you” joke here*
Ahh... Lindsay Ellis. So that's how you popped up in my feed.
Genuinely deranged maniacs of the world, unite! ... I say.
Not nazbol enough.
In the words of of George Clinton and Parliament: Gaga, googa, ga, ga, googa. Ga, ga, goo, ga, ga!
Tell me something you can't do ( apart from marrying me..). Will you marry me?
the great southern white guilt trend
sicilians are going blonde again ....so are arabs....   beige gets brighter
Hey Contra, why are you against Japanese nationalism?  Could you elaborate?
do you have a discord?
I'm a Native American separatist.   I hate everyone.
Damn you are so disgusting. I wish I could watch some of your videos but I just can't.
One of your worst videos. Incoherent ideas of culture, no discussion of culture creation and social engineering. Your trolling was heavy handed and artificial. Disingenuous without being funny and low production value. Oh well, your more recent ones are getting better.
We need more cowbell!!
I only encountered the hysterical "white genocide" claim quite recently.  I think it stems from the same place as a sizeable chunk of those that voted Brexit. The ones that identify as English rather than British, and overwhelmingly voted for Brexit. The only religious minority that overwhelmingly voted for Brexit was Anglican. The problem seems to be that these people have a single monolithic identity - 'English' - and it connotes race, ethnicity, nationality, and religion, i.e. white, Anglo-Saxon, 'English', and at least Christian, but ideally Anglican, all in one go. This being a retrenchment from "Anglo-Saxon, white, 'British', and at least Christian, but ideally Anglican."  'British' included the Scots, Welsh, and Irish; but that, apparently, is no longer acceptable. In addition, when Sikhs and Hindus came to the UK in significant numbers and started calling themselves British, it was a direct hit on this monolithic identity. Had these people considered their race, ethnicity, nationality, and religion as related but distinct identities they could have coped, but because these identities are a single chimera any change required in one to accommodate change destroys the whole identity.
6:35 Peru is basically white and amerindian, mestizos are just mixed between the two, and a very small amount of every other ethnic group. Brazil is more mixed, because they have a good amount of white, Amerindian, and black people there, and mixes between those three, along with a few other immigrants. The majority of immigrants in Brazil are from Japan. They influenced their culture by introducing Jujutsu there, and the Brazilians came up with their own version of it.
I think you hit the nail on the head but not very hard.  Even if you didn't address it in length, I would've liked to see a nod to this as just being an instance of a problem that manifests in a lot of other (less cruel) forms.  I think this fear you point to is one of loss of identity.  People struggle in general with what does/doesn't define them, and in the U.S. even, a big part that a lot of people cling to is their ancestry.  In a time when borders (physical and metaphorical) basically don't exist, there's a degradation of closeness or community in a lot of facets of our life.  I think ancestry is something people cling to as a shield against this to try to force closeness/community because it's a relatively coarse-grained thing that doesn't really require self-exploration to associate with.  tl;dr:  I think the problem is an understandable one that is manifesting in an inexcusable way.
Make more videos where you dress like a sexy Nazi and whisper in German.
Peru also just elected its 7th Jewish president.... A country like Peru. Makes you think.
Once again I'm surprised by how good your German is
I really tried to listen to this video, but the whole thing made me feel sick. Why do you people pretend, or are you just deluded into really believing that the alt-right doesn't know every single argument you offer up? It's pushed through every platform on every screen in just about every building in the western world one time or another through any kind of messaging that will fly with the bosses. It was taught and built brick-by-brick in people's heads by the school system so that you'd need pliers to pull it out. The harsh reality, which most of you seem really intent on avoiding is that THEY USED TO BE YOU. They gave out your arguments like candy on Halloween, they joined your self-righteous minifits over anything pop culture's decided to condemn on that specific day. They were excited about the same kind of politicians, given the carrot and stick treatment and disappointed by them too, just the same. The divide between you people - the left, progressives, or simply anti-(alt)right and the general right really is your ability to adapt. The alt-right, for all their faults took their beatings and each individually had this moment when they, as individuals understood something was wrong, and that it was being cultivated inside of their own heads since kindergarten. They each went on this lonely path through books and lectures, scrambled together independently - as men used to, with the real heart-felt desire to learn more, to find an answer. They knew they had to do it on their own because the manipulation of institutions and media is far too well-documented to seriously confide in those outlets. And really... that's mostly what you can chock it up to. You guys are still on the one-way trip to wherever the f*ck the banks, Truth Inc. Wall St. politi-corporate and everyone that serves directly under them want you to go. You will kneel and lick the boot, oddly without even questioning why you, a people who usually pride yourselves in being the real heroes of the people, seem to be pretty damn well in line with whatever the hell these people tell you a good boy is supposed to do. At the end, yeah, most of it is a cloud of theories that died out for the right reason, but at the far end of this is a silver lining to honest work, a return to decency and responsibility, and a person that for all that trouble, improved by light-years compared to the average person on the left. Those guys, once they've settled their demons will stand with everything we value and everything that looks like justice against all of you lost ones and your corporate masters if or when shit hits the fan. That's the harsh reality. And... this is why I didn't like your video, why the left is failing on youtube and why the alt-right is making gains, in a nutshell. It's the destination, and doing something on your own after a childhood and young adulthood filled with people demanding you obey in everything you do. If you'd just all get off your high horse for a minute, you'd realize that for every neckbeard there's an honest success story, and for every dedicated neo-nazi there's a dozen people who managed to emerge with an honest-to-god enlightened point of view that is making people think about WHY they aren't happy with the modern society. A lot of these guys would rather die than keep watching the degradation. With such heart in it, people look and don't need to take that scary path down the rabbit hole. They just pick up a book for the first time in years and realize it's not such a bad thing to disagree with anyone or even EVERYONE. That's the most important notion we've lost as a people, and that's what this all is for. I hope someone took the time reading this because a bunch of alt-right people danced a crazy dance a couple years ago and made me wonder why I was so afraid of dancing out in the open myself, you know? It's making people think without the training wheels for once... and seeing this video is like losing years of personal progress towards improvement. I think that's why it made me feel sick.
why don't you go and debate some alt-righters instead of cherrypicking some spergs from the comment section? We have internet blood sports now where everyone is invited but for some very strange reason, not many leftists want to show up for a debate.
the rape crisis in Sweden is real. The state doesnt even release the ethnicity stats because it could be used for racism to see who are the majority of rapists in Sweden.
(That moment when the first sane outright leftist with a rational thought process I've seen in waaay too long is a glorious transvestite.) You sir are a credit to humanity. Thank God humour is still alive somewhere on the left, and, you have that glorious eccentricity I've missed so much. I guess you've never heard of Kenny Everett but he was the best, well, until aids killed him for getting frisky with an Italian waiter. (Kenny was a UK comedian and very close friend of Freddy Mercury, also killed by aids unfortunately.)  Anyway, I came here from Dr. Layman's channel, he's tentatively given a few new voices on the left a sort of er... blessing of sorts. He made a video on the rising new left, (you're in it by the way), which was refreshing, because the left has had this great reputation for being a festering cesspit for the last few years, y'know? I've been following the tangle of movements on the new right for the last few years and I've developed my particular sympathies. 100% unapologetic selfish European identitarianism in my case. It's the European way, and it's okay for it to be different to the American way. Being total bastards is a sane, tried-and-tested survival strategy over here :P  However, speaking of the new right, there are other parts of the new right that are completely batshit insane, and well, show no mercy. So for instance, the JQ is an unhealthy fetish, hypocritical and... is it just me or aren't the Israelis basically just another group of white nationalists with an actual ethnostate? And... the neo-nazis... they are really just a minority in the new right, but they are just as mysterious as why on earth people think communism is okay. Although to be fair, the continued existence of communists is more troubling given 100+ million bodybags from the gulags, famines, etc etc.  Bottom line is you're cool and you got a sub. +1 for the hilarious Golden One comment—he's a fun character. <3
Ooh! I want to join your Nazi-punching friends!
I love this video! It's also super weird how even though I'm a feminist, African American women I feel sorta bad for the "existential horror" that some white people feel. Which is ironic because white nationalists hate the idea of my existence. The only thing they can really do is accept that cultures do change, and do so often for the better.  This article also delves into this anxiety:  As America Changes, Some Anxious Whites Feel Left Behind - National Geographic https://apple.news/AsSFpZDOvQfCxYT4zneuaQg
Are You from Sweden? :)
I love you Contrapoints. 💘
Great work. Thanks for this video.
Yay! I love that point of, cultures change. Like it's so odd to me how they want to preserve such vague ideas of racial culture. Stuff changes in like a handful of years, let alone decades. Clinging to the now seems to be a big issue for the alt right
About the comment about the disappearance of Old Norse.  If anyone's  interested, there's really nothing stopping them from learning Old Norse for themselves. https://notendur.hi.is/haukurth/norse/
solid intro holy fuck XD
Your "look at the ethic groups of China" argument actually validates the alt-righr "pan-europeanism". You ciite the ethic diversity of China by listing all of the tribal affiliations that constitute the current nation, but they all happen to have similar appearances...just like the alt-righr conception of modern "white" America
Seems like theists finally being forced to grasp mortality. You will die, and nothing about your descendants' lives will be within your control, regardless of the extremes you took in life. The sky will probably still be blue, though.
Those boots 😍
like, cool video about the social issues and everything, but I can't focus when you have such great skin
was the white nationalists video deleted?
What is the context for the razor wire at 10:12?
I just noticed "also also wik" and now I love you even more than before
🤘🤘🏾
Poland is a white ethnostate, same with Russia,
What is this sorcery at 3:00? Such masterfully asmr... MY BODY WAS NOT READY.
I'm personally not in synch with your political views but I admire the way you handle your channel and I really like it, keep up with the good work... ;)
Is the mumification reference drawn from twilight of the idols?
wait. now im curious. do you actually speak several languages? your accents are always so convincing!
My favorite Contra video ever
10/10 on that tuck 💖
If contra does an ASMR video my heart will explode with joy.
not to be a natzee sympathizer but your legs look HOT in that outfit
lol you can tell that white dude at 0:39 is racist just by the stuff in his background
AHHHH, surprise HBomberguy video cameo!
What I still don't get is the example you made with african americans. You said that they culture "survived". But did it really? As far as I can tell, their african culture was completely stripped from them, just because they created a bunch of new culture doesn't mean that's african culture, or even really a successor of it. Sure, african culture still exists, and some african americans want to re-connect to that, but that's not really the same thing as the culture surviving along with those who were take from Africa, it survived separately from them.
what can i do so you .....like...arrest me ?
いいえ…
もっと日本語の単語を覚えたらどうですか。
乳牛
You really have a lot of talent. I am glad I found you
marry me contra. <3 we shall retake Constantinople together.
Why am I so attracted to Nazi outfit Contra >.>
Ahhh yes fear, the great vote getter.
I would think the internet is transmorphing and amalgamating culture way faster and more extensively than immigration ever could.
Call me a goon glucose guardian
I enjoyed this bideo a lot.Things get so grim these days.Nothing like Gestapo officer in drag to cheer us all up.
You are really smart and you organize your thoughts well and present them in an entertaining way. I've just discovered your channel today but I'm enjoying what you have to say. I am also inspired by many of your inspirations. Keep fighting the good fight. What you are saying and doing is important.
Contrapoints you are what the Alt-Right is afraid of.
Crazy on point. Almost exactly what was going through my head when i got into a discourse with one of these nutty fools.
あなたの妹はとても可愛い、でも、ちょっと硬いですね。。。
Great video! I don't speak German but yours sounds convincing. Do  you speak German? How did you learn it?
Cultures change but let's not pretend that it's some natural process that opens a border and changes its demographics out of all recognition. That has traditionally happened due to wars and invasions, not a policy choice by governments borne out of a multicultural ideology that is unthinkable anywhere outside of the west. We don't see Asians, Arabs or Africans going out of their way to alter their societies in such a way.
This is hilarious and your production quality is off the charts.
Hey contrapoints. First of all: Keep up the good work. I really like your videos und appreciate your work. I have a reading recommendations for you which you might be interested in. (Maybe you already now it). It is from an german author who analyses autobiographies and diaries of Freikorps soldiers during the Weimarer Republic who later became nationalsocialists. He argues that their ideologies are not the main motivation for their actions but their relation to their own bodies. They have to build up a Körperpanzer (bodyshield?) because they fear to dissolve in society. The book is called Männerfantasien by Klaus Theweleit. Here is the englisch version: Theweleit: Male Fantasies. Minneapolis: University of Minnesota Press, 1987; Polity Press, 1987.  I am looking forward to your next video!
ilu
A couple of million Muslims that reproduce like rabbits won’t be a problem. Honestly your argument is we should just have open borders and there will only be a few ‘setbacks’ in the long run?! America has yet to experience mass Islamic immigration dear you’re blissfully ignorant, that’s all. Grow the fuck up and no it MIGHT NOT BE FINE!
Uncontrolled immigration is an abuse of people. The END.
TE AMO.
That beady black-eyed monster should never see the light of day again. Bury it somewhere deep or burn it. I guess the doll is pretty creepy too. In all seriousness, love your content, Contra. Keep up the good work, but please lose the doll. You're scaring me.
You spoke three languages and played two instruments in this video. You are freaking awesome.
Yeah, a lot of third or second world countries are multicultural, but that's no advantage. It's a liability. You don't have to go further than the Balkans to realize that. Europe has always been mainly white Indo-European, and there is simply no reason to change it only because the foreign hordes pouring in here want our shit and our decision makers are too petrified of being called Hitler to dare stopping it.
Im all for left unity, but once the revolutions done miss me with that weeb shit.
Do you know what was real problem for high ranking nazis? Most of good comedians were jewish... so... of course he was a degenerate and he must be purged... but... Hilde just loves his act and it was great date place...eh...decisions, decisions...
What the fuck am I watching and why am I clicking subscribe  I love it
Lol
Hilarious, to the point and poignant, as ever.
I'm laughing and crying at the same time :))))) thanks so much dear
You're alice.   we get it.  fuck why do I understand nihongo. You're too fucking KY :P        (wait you don't know what KY means)
We could say to all the race nationalist that we have a right to protect our mixed race ethnostates.
You said sister, there is nothing more american as Rock'n'Roll, created by the black communities.
Found your channel 2 days ago, you have a new subscriber.  Keep up the great work!
As a german... your german is quite good :D
''There will be nothing...'' Good.
China = Diverse (90% Han Chinese)... wow truly arguing with facts... wow really failed with this one...
Propaganda for pervs. Who knew?
dammit you said you weren't gonna use facts all I saw in this video was point after point backed up by hard evidence
Is that an Hbomberboi and Lindsay NostalgEllis i hear???
Where did you get that version of Wagner’s Under The Double Eagle?
I remember watching all these videos last year when I was a white nationalist and getting ready fucking angry at them, now it's just a fun little nostalgia trip as a prepare of overthrow my local government
I can't say enough how irritated I was when you started speaking german. The whole time I am listening to an english video, which means in my case, I automatically translate what you say into german in my head. But when you suddenly spoke in german, I translated it into english, to then translate it then into german. And then I sat there, starring at the screen while my brain told me that something went very very wrong.  Great vid btw.
COMMON COMRADES!!!! WE MUST DESTROY THE REMAINING FASCIST SCUM!!!
"where all other races are excluded" See, this is how I know you're full of shit. You don't have to be excluded in order to have an ethnostate. You simply need to enshrine the group and protect it in such a way. Japan limits its immigration policies to favor the Japanese ethnicity, but they don't exclude non-Japanese immigrants, nor do they seek to deport people from the country who aren't ethnically and/or culturally Japanese. Their economy is geared in such a way to favor their own people as well, with much of its advances in technology both increasing the standard of living on its people and reducing its demand for labor (and consequently outside labor) to match the declining birth rate that all first world nations experience some time or another. Israel works along similar principles. Jewish people are given priority in immigration, and although military service is compulsory for Israeli citizens (or at least most of them), you don't need to serve if you study at a yeshiva, considering their roles as religious schools, with the religion of Judaism being a major pillar of Jewish life, culture and identity.  The ethnostate does not dominate, it preserves, and there's nothing wrong with trying to preserve yourself. Please at least TRY to understand what the hell you're talking about before you make a video, because this whole video has been a giant lump of misinformation that your audience has had to swallow in the past year.
If these people are so concerned about the well-being of the Old Norse language, perhaps they should look no further than Swedish, Danish, and Norwegian. I think they'll find its legacy alive and well. Or are the English people being destroyed, too, because no one speaks Old English anymore?
It needs more cowbell.         (sorry, I'm getting old. I'll show myself out)
"What the Alt-Right Fears">>>>White Genocide.
Your videos are being flagged by the Nazi's on YouTube.
Fascism is a fever... and the only prescription... is more cowbell!
Hbomberguy, no!!!
You have a perfect voice for talking to the "far right".
That uniform-outfit looks beautiful on you.
White Europe is the only possible Europe. LOL. Maybe if we got nuked strangely. I think these people would be so deluded by their surroundings so as not to cognizance it. All these non-white people would be over there somewhere, being successful. The other thing is, only the English are white and English are a minority.
I love this person. Brilliant, dark, humorous, unique, informed. Thank you for your perspective.
I just found this channel and it may be one of my favorites, up there with shaun and Hbomb. As an aside, I never knew i needed a militant feminist dominatrix whispering ASMR to me in perfect german in my life, but i am now blessed by the experience.
Gonna save all these vids in case some butthurt neocon manages to trick youtube into messing with your channel.
Lmfao I love these videos its soo fucked up and wrong XD
Couldn't stop myself from laughing XD
I'm in love.   With uh, your videos and your succinctly-worded arguments,  I mean.  Recent subscriber, but I'm already going on a bit of a binge through your content. Love hearing your perspective
sexual perversions are inherently anti-worker and anti-social justice. shariah law is the ethical application of this fact. women are women, and men are men, end of story.
I love your makeup in this video.
I'm from Peru and people cant tell :,)
Adore the video but your P's are popping! Wiggle back from the mic!
I'm an American nationalist, I believe in the founding principles our Constitution, and National sovereignty of the United States of America... And I think that you are one of the most beautiful women I've ever seen in my entire life! I mean, holy crap, where have you been all my life? :-)
Contra whispering German into my ear is weirdly arousing
You are a vile, ugly man.  You scream violence and to suffer persecution like people of color if humanity calls you a man.. you are a biological man.. this is a scientific fact based in reality.   Your deluded fetish exists in your pampered priviledged mind.  YOU STEAL FROM WOMEN.  YOU DEMAND ACCESS TO FUNDS ALLOCATED TO WOMEN.  YOU, AS A WHITE MAN HAVE DESTROYED WOMENS AND GIRLS RIGHT TO PRIVACY AND SAFTY.    UGLY VILE MAN, GENDER IS A SOCIAL CONSTRUCT, UNLIKE SKIN COLOR.  STOP WHINING
*MAXIMUM C U C K*
To the Old Norse guy quoted in the video: "Old Norse" was wiped out by the fucking Germans when they insisted Harald Bluetooth got baptized in exchange for domain over the Danish peninsula. An event that would make the religion spread to the rest of Scandinavia far quicker. Not by some weird sudden surge of immigration from the south, said immigration happened thousands of years prior and was what gave the Nordic countries agriculture. I can't think of a single issue directly caused by immigration. Well except for THE NAZI INVASION CAUSING US TO LOSE OUR POLICE FORCE FOR 3 YEARS.
I can't describe my level of kinksame at 2:04. Mummyyyyyyyyyy
the united states isnt the most multicultural.
So wait... Is this thing a man? And he belives that his opinion does it really matter? Damn libtards
VILE, NICK STOP STEALING FROM WOMEN AND CHILDREN OF COLOR.
White men and their sick. Fetishes
In regard to "Muslim rapists". How do you explain away the fact that one gang of 12 Muslim men raped over 1,400 girls in one UK town? And the fact that more prosecutions are taking place. It appears as though this has happened in every major town in the Uk.  White Europeans are having less children. Studies reveal the truth of that. Studies also reveal that immigrants to the UK are having more children then Europeans. Its not hard to work out what the makeup of future populations is going to be.  If you look at Europe you really can prove that mass immigration has caused a number of very serious social issues. It appears as though you are in complete denial of this.
10:09 - Oh yeah, because it's so much more humane to open our borders? And what, give everyone the right to welfare and the vote? Then, not only will we have waves of terrorism and rape, etc, but pretty soon, Europe will become the third world...   It's like we're at a lifeboat from the Titanic which can't take anymore people, and you're shouting "Oh, you're so heartless, when you're just gonna let these people there drown!!" The alternative is that everyone drowns, so get a grip, baizuo!
Lol I love this nigga
where'd you get those gold undies at 0:31? ... asking for a friend
this is not about the left vs the right but jews against us, the goyim. I don't fucking care if it's socialism, corporatism or capitalism as long as it is not controlled by the international jew. And yes, this is an existential crisis. They want to enslave us, we will have to destroy them in order to not become their cattle.
I love how white people claim America when y'all ain't from here. #go back to Europe if you want a home land idiot.
what is that anime song at the beginning?
This anime was weird....was still able to fap to it tho.
MAXIMUM CUCKOLDRY
this is the greatest channel on youtube
10:40 Didn't work last time for Yugoslavia and will never work for Balkan or Easter Europe.
<3
norse is actually decently well-preserved in the icelandic language sooo....
Damn your production values!
You are a superhero.
6:28 Over 93% han chinese and the other tiny minorities are other asians who are phenotypically extremely similar. China is really a multiracial country just like the USA. :D
Rape is always fucking disgusting. Idc what colour you are, rape is bad and rapists need more punches.. After proof. Innocent until proven guilty but fuck are there alot of rapists getting away with it. Tbh imo the huge rise in xenophobia is because of the rape stories that keep coming out. Imagine going to music festival and being raped and beaten for hours only to be called a racist because you pointed at a Muslim. Or being raped by groups of men while your husband hangs from a tree while the justice system justifies their actions because your skin makes you "sub human". Rape is bad, crime is bad and no one should be able to get a free pass, let alone at these crazy rates. Seriously, rape stories freak me out so much I stay far FAR away from groups of Muslim men at music festivals and bars unless I'm with a bunch of guy friends, even then, it still makes this tranny nervous... Plus womens rights are going to need a boost since alot of these immigrants from poorer countries need a reminder that women are badass and equal and not just sex toys and baby makers
H. P. Lovecraft.
u rock!
Nazi asmr *NOW!*
"What the Alt-Right Fears" Umm, facts? Truth? Logic? Education? Common-sense? Morality? Human decency? A vague idea of where their ideology would lead them if it was implemented a second time?
It's kind of a funny when these fascist morons go 'Germany is a hellhole overrun by Musliiiiiiims!!!!! ' * thunderclap *. Guys, we're fine over here. Chillax.  On a different note: HBomberguy! * squee *
You don't have any arguments .... that could ever disprove how amazing your golden underwear is! I'm not a Nazi, but if I was Grand Wizard of the Klan, I would DEFINITELY use some gold material to make our hoods more fashion-forward.  P.S. If I make a swastika out of lip gloss, can I call it a "glosstika?"
I love you.  I know I'm starting to repeat myself, but that's the only response I can come up with after watching your videos.
"I'm gettin all hot under the corset"  Don't tease us like that!
I am so glad you, and by extension this channel, exist. There are few outlets such as this out there, and Youtube has dangerously been leading one way lately, leaving no room for me to explore other perceptions. Your points are valid, and have some backing to them, and while you do poke fun, you make sure to tackle the motivations of each side in order to at the very least get an understanding of where they're coming from. Can't wait to binge watch all your videos!
I really like the point you make here. I'm latin american myself and I find post-colonialism unfortunate. Some people believe that we ought to preserve latin american culture from north american and european imperialism. Although I understand the historical reasons for this claim, I believe that such a thing is impossible. Simply misguided: You can't "preserve" a culture, like a snapshot in time, and trying to do so is more perjudicial than anything -you'd have to forbid foreign media consumption, for example. I for one, love blues, jazz and rock and roll just like you, and sometimes get criticised for being a sort of "american-phile" I suppose. I find it ridiculous. What good does it bring to the world to obligate certain groups to conform to the traditions of the country in which they just happened to be born? I am also glad that you mentioned being against Israel as an ethnostate and Japan's immigration policies. You have very sensible ideas. But I guess you already know that.    Thanks for what you do.
More cowbell!
If people think that Europeans being white is what keeps the Western World, well, western, than these people are imbeciles.
Brains,beauty,balls and production values..heady mix indeed.
Fridez has clearly never been to portugal.
please write a book. please write 50 books. please write so many books and then write the scripts to the films for those books, as well as direct and star in those films. that'll give the alt right something to be afraid of
I mean, you gotta hand it to Nazi's tho. Those boots are lit.
You are a HE, and that's that.
The sequence from 2:00 to 2:30 is one of the best bits ever done on this channel. “Who would ever wanna argue with these people?” BAM Nazi sashaying towards the viewer, sitting down with their feet up and addressing the viewer in German was a piece of comic genius.
I mean, I'm just here for the Beyonce...
I still can't help but feel uneasy -- while having little issue with immigration per se -- it does seem that there's a cause and effect relationship between immigration and the rise of ultra-nationalism. i.e. what's the point in offering refuge to immigrants if this just ends in them facing an equally bad situation here?-- it will likely end in some internecine social conflict where we're all worse off.   #pathologicalaltruism  Edit: I didn't know hashtags were a [functional] thing on Youtube; I don't know where that link goes, but it was not an intentional link.
I still can't help but feel uneasy -- while having little issue with immigration per se -- it does seem that there's a cause and effect relationship between immigration and the rise of ultra-nationalism. i.e. what's the point in offering refuge to immigrants if this just ends in them facing an equally bad situation here?-- it will likely end in some internecine social conflict where we're all worse off.   #pathologicalaltruism
God-damn (in an atheist way) your German is sexy as fuuuck!
most of ContraPoints supporters are teenage girls, with their emotions & care-based morality:  teenage girls who buy Justin Bieber's recordings, and learn history from Hollywood;  they will never find out that ContraPoints is a left-wing propagandist
I just found your channel and it is so insightful! Great quality of videos and content
colton streicher is probably the best face for alt right
christians are first to forbid slavery! why is christianity so hated in left?
WHY DO EVERYONE HATES CHRISTIANITY BUT LOVES ISLAM?
USA IS COUNTRY BUILT BY AND FOR WHITE CHRISTIAN PEOPLE SO IS EUROPE AND AUSTRALIA
6:46 This idea of white nationalism being about fear really brings to mind the same fear that permeated works of HP Lovecraft and the racism embedded in it. I think Caitlin Kiernan explained it well in the documentary Lovecraft: Fear of the Unknown which is Lovecraft saw in New York a system which worked but for which he did not work (https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jg9VCf5einY&feature=youtu.be&t=44m25s). I feel it is the same parallel we are seeing in the Alt-Right now. These are people who, I think, deep down, recognize how diversity and multiculturalism works, but it is a world they fear they cannot ever fit in to.
"old time rock and roll" was chosen ironically, right?
Read practicle idealism. 😘
you are hilarious and brilliant. keep going.
1:42 lol @ the guy using a spongebob pic
3:40 facts 9:54
Will always love you. You are the diversity that will keep us off the shit-heap of history! Please find the best way for yourself to reproduce! We need MORE super intelligent/motivatingly disturbing people to help us evolve.
Late to the party, but thank you for your continued efforts and excellent content.
2:05 oops boner
Wanna form a band?
i think i love you.
Hey, your previous video was taken down, just thought that you should know. Fuck those sore-Alt-Righters. :3
Exactly. Nazi skinheads listen to and play rock music. Before you tell me you want all traces of non-European culture eliminated, show me some young white folks who listen to nothing but Polka, Waltzes, Wagner and German opera. Yea, that will bring the kids running.
I absolutely love your videos
How the fuck has this glorious channel existed so long and not been in my life?
how much did your liberal Zionist cuckmasters pay you to be their propaganda mouthpiece your  the definition of what happens to once honorable white men when their honorable  brethren  lose ww2 against the international LgBT zio  multi culti circus
u can't sing for shit
Why do you know Japanese?
It amazes me how these homos push for their anti-white agenda but disregard the fact that most blacks,latinos,jews and muslims hate you and wouldn't care one bit if you were exterminated.
Whites are 8% of world population with mass immigration to their nations while having low birth rates and it's all a myth?you are the most degenerate lying piece of filth on the internet.
So is the Golden One (real Johnny Bravo) just trying to hit on you?
Peru is a multicultural paradise. It's just the drug capital of the world
You ma'am are my kind of leftist! Someone whose able to provide solid data, argue against idpol for good reasons (as oppose to the alt-cucks) and remain in good spirits while doing it all is a rare find. Cheers :)
Comrade Contrapoints comes thru with the facts and data and all they can say is "well.. thats not an argument!!"
I'm a German and I'm sooooo looking forward to the day the "one world-all people are equal-government" finally destroys Germany, along with every other f*cking nation state.  ...of course, German nationals keep telling me I'm a race traitor so take my opinion with a grain of salt.
Fuck Off calling Sargon a 'Goon'!
America maybe since its only 60% white but Europe is still 85-99% homogeneous
You have bastardized that uniform. How dare you
How many languages do you speak? Or do you crash study for each video? X3
I'm not sure Shaun and Jen are the best folks you could defer to.  It'd be better to make root out the data and make the arguments yourself.  At least so far you seem to be far more credible then they are, at least to someone who is not an alt-righter in any sense of the term.  Also, you are more interesting and entertaining :)
I hope you've seen the music video by Mel Brooks "To Be Or Not To Be" - it's fabulous!! :D
Oh god, I love you more with each video I run across. :) Keep up the good work!
You got to adapt to survive. History proves it over and over again.
Also am I hearing hbomberguy's voice? lmao
Wow, you've both got a new subscriber and a new person crushing on you. lmao
im getting a tattoo of you when you walk out after saying “they’d have to be crazy to debate them” no fucking joke im doing it
Thanks so much for dealing with this issue. You are my new personal fucking hero.
Are those comments narrated by Batko?
More cowbell...
A big part of this is the past generation that fought Nazis no longer exists in big numbers anymore. It's seen as "ancient history", as ancient as the Pyramids, the Colosseums. These new children are growing up and don't have a good understanding of political discourse. Like all teenagers trying to grow out of there parents footsteps. Their parents were the Cival rights movements, their grandparents literally fought fascism, they are counter-culturing. Another way is that the parents and grandparents of Nazis taught their children fascism at home, but told them to be "tolerant" outside. Closet Fascism.
ContraPoints...I want to lick your brain.
I have no idea what I'm watching but I love it.   <3 <3 <3
Since you did such a good job getting into the headspace of the alt-right here, I gotta ask, what's your take on the alt-right and "traps"? Why do you think it's such a big thing for them? I'd be interested to see a full video on the subject, but I can understand if the full breadth of your analysis wouldn't warrant it.
*Maximum KEKOLDREY*
I just found your channel yesterday and you are my favorite human.
I like when you say in german...
why do people hate sargon? (other than rape jokes)
Oh das Deutsch klang ja ganz gut, ein deutlicher amerikanischer Akzent, aber das "CH" war ja schon ganz passabel. Bei uns nennen sich die "Alt-Right" Identitäre, aber der gleiche .......(my country) first shit.
"I live in the most multi cultural place in the world, america" How did you come up with that crazy shit. Apart from that, good video.
Old Norse isnt even a good example, modern Icelandic is directly descended from Old Norse and modern Ice Landers can read the Icelandic Sagas in Old Norse in a way thats similar to us reading Shakespeare.
Nice hbomberguy cameo
I am more worried about communism and socialists taking America down to the lowest common denominator of the irresponsible and idiotic. Thank you for being at the very least a reasonable person, though we disagree.
00:00-00:31   Not my proudest fap.
as a german what fucks me up the most is the right wingers talking about what is going on here. they keep framing it as though germany was going through the apoclypse. like what is wrong with you.
Bye western civilisation; thanks for Doctor Who, Mozart and Nietzsche >.>
A white ethnostate? Isn’t that the point of Israel?
“Enter deranged maniac” >.>
they always mention japanese culture as an example of their culturally fetishized ideal, yet they can't see that all cultures evolve with time, compare ancient feudal japan with modern japan, big difference.
"That I didn't make any arguments; that I have no argument"etc. XD
Please come to my house in that uniform....
Is there no room for a reasonable middle ground? I agree with the idea that creating a white ethnostate (or many) is totally infeasible at this point, at least if we rule out the INSANE violence it would take to get there. But it seems like we’re constantly stuck arguing between polar opposite world views—we either lock the borders down and expel/exterminate minorities or we eliminate borders entirely and encourage the dissolution of of separate cultures/peoples. What about a classically conservative position where we simply try to apply a mild braking force on the radical left’s utopian tendencies? Society/culture will always change, and due to the exponential pace of science/technological growth, it’s moving at unprecedented speed today. From my perspective, this means that we need conservatives more than ever if only to give us a chance to slow things down enough to digest the changes and identify unintended/unforeseen consequences before something irreparable happens. I think both sides need to get away from arguing with extremist caricatures of the other side, and try to accept that we need each other for balance.
People always wanna talk about black crime, but they never want to talk about black cultural contribution. What hypocrites.
Yo, your deutsch it's amazing
one funny thing i have to comment on. Portuguese culture has been influence so much by african culture (mainly angola and mozambique in the last century, also muslim culture way back when) that that comment is just laughable to me. I mean, parts of africa were our country until 1975 (not something im proud of, but still a fact) jesus people are dumb
Nazi ASMR? Okay this is a thing now.
"My culture is not white culture. It's American culture. ... You can't tell me that white nationalism will protect my culture, because my culture is half black." --> LOVE THIS
Wow this is first time a "leftist" actually made me think twice about this whole issue.
The comparsion of thousand year empires to mumification to reach eternal life is a genius metaphor.
Ok, you're fucking awesome.
The Zionists are the real problem.  You don't have to be Jewish to be a Zionist, either.  Know the true enemy!  And stop practicing intellectual dishonesty!
I support Trump so my son doesn't turn out like this.
"But if there's one lesson America can teach Europe, than it's that these things are surmountable." I'm not sure. Especially in the 60s there were many black people coming to France and Belgium, Indians coming to the UK and Turkish immigrants coming to Germany. And I don't know how it is in the other countries, but here in Germany, the Turks immigrated pretty well. Nowadays, you will see Turks, Arabs and ethnic Germans sitting next to each other in University or High School and Syrian refugees are welcomed at the train stations. And that is a good thing.
you should tell us why those comments were wrong instead of calling them names.
Ok can we not equate nationalism of the oppressed aka escaping people actively killing them and white nationalism? Israel, Kurdistan, and Black nationalism's projects were never intended to be monostates, just majority nations centering around that group's culture. (Though not gonna argue that Israel isn't moving closer to the white nationalist model)  As it stands, America and European countries are already white ethnostates in the same sense that these nationalism of the oppressed projects are, they want to go a step further and make it a monoethnic state via mass deportations and genocide and that's the difference.
Interesting. But you need to find out exactly what the alt right is thinking.  Sure. A white ethnostate is improbable and desirable. But are you really saying we shouldn't keep the USA and Europe as white as possible or try to keep brown people out? Why?
That entance, though! Go girl!
Oddity: "ethnic group" in a European context is not, traditionally, based on skin colour. Ask the Bosnians. Or the Irish. Or even the Finns. Europe has always had considerable cultural differences, even back in the halcyon days of the 19th century when pretty much everyone was pasty white, or at best well-tanned. For that matter, the part of Germany where I grew up has some cultural differences with the part of Germany I live in now. This conflation of ethnicity and culture is lacking any sort of sense.
Cultural-appropriate much? Don't you think it's rude to reiterate stereotypes about Japan. ...also, you don't make arguments on anything but feelings.
Come here Fritz... sk sk sk sk sk
I think I'm in love.
Yea fuck these israelis right they deserve Hamas right
Me? I'm all for ignoring incresing crime stats wherever refugees show up, those women and kids in sweden are just REPORTING too many rapes. They're probably conservative and want to get raped to make refugees feel bad so I say they can rape them amiright? Also, white men attending college don't deserve a fair trial for rape because that's how we achieve equality. You get accused of rape you should be treated like a rapist right away. Oh and who cares that men don't attend collage anymore it's not like men deserve education.  AJAJAJAJAJA what  do you mean I'm sick, I'm obviously the good guy because I'm opposing those evil billionaire nazi villain conservatives and you'd have to be stupid to think otherwise. What do you mean brainwashed?
Metamorphosis into culture more similar to what islamist or africans create equals the death of certain values and replacement with others that are ethically inferior. Why do you agree with things getting worse and condemn people who want their culture to maintain its good parts and go in the right direction(not stop change, just take what you know that makes things better for most and apply the lessons you learn from the history). Why increase rape and murder rates by inviting cultures that don't mix well with ours instead of decreasing it by deporting ethnic or cultural minority groups that show both a tendency to commit more crimes and contribute less in taxes. Those groups then vote for governments that allowed the situation to get worse because they offer free money and the others don't. Leftist politicians know this and their willingly causing crime waves just to get more votes in the long run and people like you defend them. Useful idiots to oppressive governments.
This Dutch guy approves of this message 👍.
Subbed at "Also also wik"
So multiculturalism is good because America fuck yea? like the rest of the world doesn't view you as a gutter leaking toxic sewage into every unfortunate crevice of the world? why is multiculturalism a good thing again? do you have an actual reason or is it just because blacks sing good?
Q U E E N
The fuck?
This sort of artificial preservation also seems to ignore the effects of time altogether. Go through your grandparents' old family photo albums or just look up historical photos of your home town and see if you aren't overcome with an overwhelming sense of alienness. Yeah, some things remain recognisable and relatable, but if you or me were suddenly timeportaled to the 1950's, we'd feel as foreign as if we'd be in China or Morocco, and it wouldn't be because the kebab shop down the street wasn't there yet.
My hero
Cuck.
So fear of a black dick
Ok ok I was literally hoping you wouldn't attack trump supporters as alt right racist so Mexicans black and Muslims can't support trump because trump is a racist
161 smash dat fash
So: White nationals (Nazi's) hate Jews. Nazi's constantly blame the Israel vs Palestine conflict on the creation of a Jewish ethno-state. Jews felt the need for an ethno-state as a safe haven due to the aftermath of their treatment by Nazi's during WWII. Now Nazi's want a white ethno-state.   Man, at least do some warm ups before attempting that level of mental gymnastics, that shit wildin'
"Muslim birth rates are going down" - You win the most Jewish comment of the year award.
Please don't tell me you support Anita Sarkeesian. She's lied so many times and it needs to stop.
All it took was this first video of yours to subscribe. Thank you
Actually, Israel is not an ethno-state. 1) Jews are not a race, but a religion 2) Israel has almost a quarter Arabic population, with sections of Jerusalem (what it holds its capital as) for Muslims, Christians, and Armenians, clearly tolerating other faiths 3) Israel's government treats every people equally in law 4) Israel has a highly Liberal/progressive and racially diverse judicial system
literally what can't you do though
I've just discovered you, and I can't tell you how much better I feel about my world because of the discovery. Smart, wry, uncompromising, well-researched and edited, witty, thoughtful and - I think I mentioned smart, right?  Thank you, so much!
Yeah, don't worry guys! It's all going to be fine!
the idea that only Western/European countries are multi-ethnic is, again, based in the misunderstanding of multiple ethnic groups (i.e. Africa being a group of about 50+ different groups) aside from European identity.
I think you have a secret fetish for mighty fascists!
I feel like antifa are the real nazis
I'm late to the party but that uniform fishnet thigh high boot combination is life changing
WTF is with the Japanese Anime-like intro in the beginning? What was the point of that exactly? Other than to expose soundbites from a blatant white nationalist?
While I do agree with you, and I honestly enjoy your sense of humor, people who are saying "you're making things up" in response to your "you're making things up" have a point - with the current amount of "kinda verified" data out there, any point can be backed by data (even though those sources would seem funny to you and me - same way as our "yew-sponsored sources" seem to them) ; things I'm saying are not constructive (i. e. there's no "right action" one can infer from them) , I'm just pointing that in current reality there's no way to prove anything to anyone with words and facts, because there're just too much data, ideas, sources, and I am not going to check each and every for validity, so what I'm personally is left with, is just "believing into things that resonate well with my current world view" - same thing as they do, and that is kind of sad.
Your patience is legendary. As someone whose first instinct to is to fight a Nazi the instant I see one, I nonetheless recognize that changing minds is even better. Thanks for all you do, and making it so darn entertaining. Please marry me
Cuck.
I'm attracted to Nazi contrapoints, does that say something bad about me?
We don't fear you,  we throw you out of helicopters!
If "blues, jazz, rock, soul and hip-hop" is degenerate...I'm wrong and I don't wanna be right.
Race isn't a social construct,  society is a racial construct.  Discuss.
This bitch insane
Your German is pretty good
I'm not a Fascist, but I do think that there is a double standard of considering natural evolution of some cultures, as cultural imperialism and therefore wrong and something that people and governments work to arrest. Especially in the context of say Hollywood films in Asia where a direct political oppression or literal imperialism isn't involved. there is a sympathy for the underdog traditions and dying languages against a global culture of soccer, English language, Hollywood and Apple products but I don't know why the European or European colonialists desiring a preservation of what they consider as their culture is per se necessarily bad, anymore than any other societies, but it does seem fairly pointless in the context of The US where it is already quite pervasive and entrenched for the foreseeable future. There is a tendency to arbitrarily decide for others what's a good culture, society or ethnicity to be protected, people have been telling Kurds they can't have their own state for decades.
>couple million immigrants >Honestly engage the issue  Pick one plz
The Peru point is retarded. And the conflation of ethnicities with race is fucking dishonest
The conclusion of Liberalism is the right of all third worlders to access white male spaces
I think what strikes at the core of many of white supremacists is this looming fear of obsolecence. That they fear becoming "outdated" in this world and that they will wake up to a day where they will be replaced and their skills or knowledge will not be welcome anymore, by extension tying it to this abstract picture of a grand golden age of "European enlightenment" and great inventiors, artists, and philosophers, etc. Because in their eyes, those "good old days" don't exist anymore, they think they are increasingly becoming an endangered species. It can't be further from the truth that many minorities have nothing but respect and reverence for those same white scholars, though.
It was Lindsay. That’s who I didn’t recognise.
Oh my god I just found your channel and I'm in love
Yes, the white genocide is great. Valuing and protecting the arbitrary cultural norms and the racial and ethnic identity of a country inevitably leads to violence and it was the underlying cause behind WWII and the America Civil War. If we value peace it's best to just stop valuing arbitrary cultural norms and the racial and ethnic identity of a country and the first step is a white genocide.
Yeah, the Americas are a great example of how immigration does not causes genocide, right? After all, look at Brazil, the USA, Chile and see how the population is still indigenous lol Pointing out to countries that have slightly different ethnicities that are native to the territories (as are the mongols and tatars in Russia or the canton, tibetan and xinjiang people in China) does not justifies the ridiculous ammounts of non-white immigration Europe is being through. You are talking about countries that are less than 80% of the native race, and this demographical change ocurred in 20-30 years. Soon they will be like the USA, almost 60%. Soon, like Brazil, less than 50% Do you really think that is something people should not care at all? That it is ok to accept that MY people will be assimilated in some kind of ugly blob just to please some fucking stupid ideals? I live in Brazil. I know what I am talking about. I have seen the demographical change in my once white-majority city. I know what is being seen as a foreigner in the country you were fucking born in, because everywhere you go, there are only mestizos and mulattoes. So fuck you, you fucking tranny. Go die of AIDS and stop pushing for leftism for the sake of it.
There is a way of stopping a change of culture but you stop us from doing it and you are the cause of it in the first place.
Not an argument
Bravo
Was that hbomberguy reading comments? Nice!
Who is the guy who pops in around 0:33?
lol Old Norse evolved directly into the languages spoken in modern Scandinavian countries. Contrapoints I think entertaining the specific beliefs you did in this video is to your discredit. Like arguing against flat earthers. Keep it up but find better arguments to take on.
Fucking Cucksucker
What seriously bothers me about these ASSHOLES..is for the most part they don't ACTUALLY care about culture at all....not enough to read more than one book a year on average...not enough to learn any languages beyond English here in the US...certainly not enough to read the Greeks in Greek or Strindberg, or bother with learning actual history of the west or anywhere actually....Irish culture? learn Gaelic and let your life be consumed by Irish literature...or pick up a fucking fiddle and learn thousands of tunes. In other words....if you love culture...preserve culture. The good things about our cultures...all of them are passed on lovingly by artists tending to them,creating new songs, poems, books.....not by being a repeater station for racist pseudo science and obvious hatred of what you fear... I love my Irishness.....I play Irish music...and carry that forward....brown people aren't killing Irish music....people not learning to play it are....people not supporting trad players by buying trad music are....just one example.
The real question is why did Contrapoints have a Nazi outfit for the video, and what did the store ask her when buying it?
Keep doing what you're doing, your content only feeds the alt-right's fires. Thank you for being so dumb
7:41 The fear of foreign genes by themselves destroying France and Portugal is ironic given that the French people formed from a mix of Celtic Gauls, Romans, German Franks, and Norse (Normans), and that the Português people formed from a mix of pre-Indo-Europeans, Phoenicians, Celtic Lusitanians, Romans, Germanic Visigoths, and Moors (mixed Arab-Berber people)
Your eyeliner in this video has me really fucking envious
if they want an ethnostate why don't we just dump THEM somewhere like north sentinel. least amount of people affected by their bs
Theres a difference between death and metamorphosis. True, a lot of us think the west is dying not changing. America and england are no longer empires. I respect Trump for wanting to turn the US back into an empire but he still lost the popular vote. The American people would rather have president Dolores Umbridge, workplace quotas, complain about how muslims are portrayed in hollywood, defend violent and stupid inner city blacks from the wascist cops and HR managers telling them what to think. They are a broken, infantile people who aren't capable of self-preservation.
The only country that even has the semblance of an ethnostate is Israel. A state that also claims it has a right to exist as an ethnostate. It has created a situation in which there is an entire displaced ethnic group almost the same size as Israel's current population, and those who have no been displaced cannot even cross -the fatherland into neighboring concentration camps.- Israel's land into neighboring Palestinian cities.
Did you make an argument? =D
I hate the things you like, but you're beautiful.
Thank you for being so fierce, and intelligent, and sharing both with all of us. If I had a friend who was even half as cool as you I'd worry so much less about my own existential crises (no pressure or anything).
kurt cobain, eat your heart shaped box out!
The production and performance value in your videos is incredible. Well done mate
omg I'm living in Japan right now and every time I say "hai" I think of this...
Black Lives Matter Members and Supporters to advocate for Black Ethnostates. In some cases they have them. SO right there you are totally full of shit.
When the Chinese started replacing native Tibetans with Han it was titled a silent genocide, yet replacing Whites with Eastern or African muslims supposedly is something totally different. 'White Genocide' is ridiculous hyperbole, but there is some undeniable overlap. PS this isn't a dogwhistle.
The Alt Right is pretty dumb but smarter then Antifa and actually has some legitimate concerns mass Immigration AA forced integration ect
Damn you are quite talented.
6:32 anal people
haha 6:29 "as you can see china has a bunch of minority groups"  shows chart of 93% ethnically Han. come back at me when it's 60% Han.  Also the cultural diffidence between Han Chinese and Hui Chinese is negligible compared to the  difference between European and African
I'm gonna make a suggestion, all those who want a white ethno state; move under the sea.
new fav person
I can just see the heads of triggered, butt hurt white nationalist watching this video. They will explode with anger. The truth hurts and alt-right idiots are just sad sacks who have bought lies that the white race and culture is gonna be wiped out by Marxist culturalist who will put chains on white people and have blacks stand behind us and beat us with whips and belts.
Old norse has been dead for thousands of years and was only revived for religious uses last century.
It's funny that the alt right are ultimately terrified of the concept of globalization; something that came about due to colonialism. I'm sure we can already see why it's so funny that they have this fear since the state of the world is due directly to an attempt to forcibly push their culture into others. Also yes, Teira Marie is queen lol
"You'd have to be a genuinely deranged maniac to actually want to argue with this people" I fucking love you, contrapoints.
So many great outfits!
it will be fine. but it will not be as good as it could have been. you avoid addressing this. and you never truly addressed why white people don't deserve ethnostates. you stated you condemn the idea of ethnostates, but you gloss over the fact that every other major racial grouping still does have its own ethnostate as if you stating that you don't like that either addresses the main question. i think the truth is that you know they deserve it just like any other race. but you don't want to admit that.
How many languages do you know?
hey, love your videos! just found out about the anti-anti feminist communities exposing people like blackpigeonspeaks and I love it!!! If you need help with german parts in your videos hmu (I assume another german already helped you because that was great!!)
Saying you deserve your own state based on your skin color is fucking dumb.   Skin color is pointless. Fite me m8
WOAH.  didn't realize there were white people who thought we needed our own space XD im live in a town that local lore says was founded by a interracial couple, and there is ALOT of white people here.   So glad to never had had that kind up my own ass kinda feeling.   <3
As a white nationalist, I am going to have to admit that your German  pronunciation is pretty good
Silly fagot..
The end of this video is AWESOME.
I do find it funny I wonder if the Beaker people who settled in the UK at the end of the ice age talked in these terms when the Gals and Romans turned up 3000 years ago then the Saxons with there Christian God then the Danes Vikings and Normans
Should fundamentalist countries in the middle east become civil and treat their immigrant work force with the same amount of respect as their citizens?
This was really friggin cool.
While I have an uberboner for Ye olde tymey European culture and would like to prevent it from withering away, I do enjoy some of these videos because it's nice to have people who I disagree with that actually can provoke thought within me and don't just go "YOU'RE A FHUCKING HWHITE MALE" for twelve minutes. I used to be pretty Nazi-ish with some of my views but I've kind of started realizing it was just as cult-ish as some far left groups I ragged on. But yeah since then I've explored more views that disagree with my own on topics like this and I do like how it's not as bad as I used to think it was (us vs. them kind of shit).  What I'm trying to say is you're a degenerate but you're *my* degenerate, no homo.
I'm sorry, I know why White nationalists say what they say. Contra, as you pointed out, these people are scared of change. Change happens, it depends on their acceptance of it.
I cannot adequately express how hilarious it is that I was sent here right after seeing hbomberguy's video on that golden one guy, and one of the first things in this one is said golden dude calling himself someone's master.
I must say...I find it refreshing that a marxist millennial does not subscribe to PACIFISM. You are a realist in that sense. I am a Darwinist..survival of the fittest is my mantra. Make no mistake, you very well know who has the biggest club...in the club. hehe. Be very careful what you wish for.........  I suggest you learn from the greatest minds of our time....Jordam Peterson, Sam Harris etc. Its funny....the greatest minds currently swears allegiance to conservatism and its various forms. Once again I commend your perceptive ability to recognize that another great cinflict is a cummin...it is inevitable. I think its natural and beautiful. Shadilay.
You are completly misrepresenting the points about Peru as an example of a multicultural Country, despite the mixed race of Peru, and all the Andinians countries of latinamerica the culture of each country is really homogenous, there is a lot of nationalism in Peru and in every country of Latin America, we are racially diverse that is true but most people are mixed and indentifies themselves as Peruvian or Chileans rather than race, that we have a multi ethnic background doesnt mean that we want to eliminate our culture through mass inmigration either from Africa nor from Europe
- All the cultures you mention are not changing, they are being replaced by islam and guess what, the islamic culture has been the same for thousands of years, it doesn't accept any change. - Why do all the countries have to be extremely mixed? don't you know that lack of sense of belonging is what transforms countries into shitholes? - Yes China have different races and cultures, but chinese people are still over 90% population, something acceptable.
I'M NOT A FACIST
Is hbomberguy reading the comments? Cause it sounds like his voice
lol its about time someone pointed out the African-American influence on almost all modern music
You're good at talking to the far right simply because you actually talk to the far right, unlike the vast majority of your comrades on the left who screech and punch trashcans.
wtf i was not expecting that fluent japanese in the begging
I've arrived at your channel just a few days ago, and I've been since marathoning from the very beginning. Your videos keep getting funnier without losing information or actual debate points. Kudos!
when will HBomber, Linsay Ellis, and Contrapoints do a full-on collab video...?
Gute Deutsch!!
Best opening to a video ever.
WHY R U PAYING ONE OUNCE OF ATTENTION TO A TINY GROUP WITH NO POWER THAT HAS BEEN DISAVOWED BY ALL IN AMERICA FOR DECADES ? STRAW MAN IS WHY ! THESE FEW HUNDRED POWERLESS MORONS ARE NOTHING. THIS IS A SAD AND DESPERATE CONFLATION BUT ALSO PREDICTABLE FROM THE PROPAGANDA LEFTARDS. *[NEO-NAZI ALT-'RIGHT'] AND THE CURRENT DEMOCRAT LEFT HAVE ALMOST THE EXACT SAME BELIEFS.* 'HOW CRAZY' YOU SAY ? ME TOO AT FIRST. YOU WILL LOOK AND NOT TRUST ME AND OF THAT I WON'T CURSE. I LOOKED AND LOOKED AGAIN AND WHAT HAVE I FOUND ? THE DIFFERENCE ONLY THESE TWO , I SO HAPPENED TO HAVE FOUND. 1. ONE ARE INTERNATIONALISTS, THE OTHER NATIONAL. 2. ONE HATES NON WHITES AND THE OTHER HATES WHITES. THAT'S IT. NOTHING ELSE. BOTH DO SHARE ALL OF THESE TRAITS: 1.HATE CAPITALISM 2. ARE SOCIALIST 3. WANT BIG GOVERNMENT [BOTH FOR INTERNAL ALL AROUND CITIZEN CONTROL] 4. BOTH HATE BIG BANKS. 5. THEY HATE THE CONSTITUTION 6. ARE COLLECTIVIST 7. DON'T CARE ABOUT INDIVIDUAL RIGHTS/FREEDOMS 8. WILLING TO USE DE PLATFORMING AND VIOLENCE TO FIGHT OPPOSITION TO THEIR CONTROL 9. BOTH DISLIKE RELIGION AND WANT NONE OF IT AT ALL IN THE THEIR STATE (GOVERNMENT) 10. THEY BOTH DISLIKE FINANCE CAPITALISM AND THE INTERNATIONAL CORPORATE BANKS. THEIR SELF GIVEN LABEL OF ALT RIGHT SEEMS TO LIKE ANTIFA'S WHICH SEEMS DOUBTFUL INDEED. IF SOME PIGS SAY CALL US 'ALT-KITTENS' JUST MAKES THE PIGS LOOK PRETTY LAME. PLEASE SEE FOR YOURSELF THAT'S WHAT I DID AND NOW AM SO GLAD. YOU SHOULD ALSO, IN THE END I THINK YOU'LL BE MUCH MUCH LESS SAD.
Damn, how the hell are you always so on point? I. Am. Impressed.
Name an argument against having enforced borders. Name a benefit of a heterogeneous society that isn't street food and illegal labor.
You are the Sargon of the left. That is not a compliment.
If Japan was completely occupied by whites who called themselves Japanese would it still be Japan? Are Japanese people a distinct genetic group with their own culture and traditions? Japan is a homogenous country you only have to look 👀 to a place like South Africa where whites have lost control and are a minority, they are a persecuted minority and I know that is what's in store for Europeans if things do not change. You aren't empirical or objective just a leftist idealist. You said yourself you just think  everything will work out but I have to say that's very unlikely.
BLM only advocates that white people are evil and that white people who in wast majority don't have any ancestors that owned slaves or owned any slaves, pay people who never where slaves. It make no sense, or give away their house, or kill themselves for being born with the wrong skin color. Of course they don't want an ethnostate, they want a state where blacks are superior and whites only exist their to make their life easier, you know, like slaves.
I  have very complicated feelings about the Nazis stripper outfit. ;)
The opening to this was weird still a great video though
thank you for being so awesome! So witty, funny, and at the same time educational. Inspirational! You are a fantastic speaker - thank you so much for sharing. <3 I think I'm a bit of a fan girl now, you're just all kinds of awesome! *cheers!!*
Good stuff, but you should get a pop filter....
Blm does advocate for their own all black communities. Look it up
I honestly, cannot like this video enough, it is AWESOME!  Thank you so much!!
White people thinking that they can have an ethnostate is entitlement..end of.
No White genocide??? 1 Mass non-White immigration to all White nations. 2 Forced racial integration in former White areas and nations. 3 Widespread anti-White propaganda in the media, the entertainment industry, schools, and churches. 4 Widespread race mixing of Whites and non-Whites. 5 Widespread trans-racial adoption of Whites adopting non-White children. 6 Hate speech laws and policies that censor the truth about race and the JQ. CHECKMATE!!!!!
i want contra to stomp on my neck, killing me instantly
The Egyptian mummification analogy is so perceptive, I think that's a vital parallel.  Reminds me of Watchmen, where Egypt was used as a symbol of a culture obsessed with death, in that book being related to cold-war era m.a.d.ness, in our own era your description of the Alt-right as suffering from death-terror is right on. Many people are haunted by a catastrophic future and the Alt-right is so popular because it is recognizing and responding to the phantom of postmodernity in a way the left, libertarians, or even traditional conservatives are.
"Your humanity died when you decided it was OK to build razor wire fences in front of children fleeing for their lives" =  Children who are forced to act out dramatic, symbolical representations of an (non)existential Hell in front of cameras. Because, of course, they made it that far without any parent/guardian ushering. Bless their sweet lil' socks...
I don't get it. Is this a parody channel?
Welcome to Berlin, where there are people living here for a decade, and still only speak English… and no one really cares, because everyone here pretty much speaks English fluently anyways.  It is funny how Americans are often so concerned about Germany losing its culture, when the American culture has pretty much supplanted a hell of a lot of stuff here already. SOMEHOW, McDonalds popping up in every country of the world isn’t an invasion of US culture on the world… SOMEHOW, Hollywood movies all done in English, with US cultural assumptions and US culture pervading them isn’t an invasion of US culture on the world…  Somehow, the homogenisation of cosmopolitan culture into US culture isn’t an invasion to these people.
The way to prevent people like you is a reverse osmosis water filter and less TV.
i hate that i recognized hbombs voice immediately gdhkghd im in too deep
Don't invite the white nationalists to fight your socialism friends. Your socialist friends will get their ASSES handed to them. No question.
Holy shit I just realised you are nick or what the fucks left of that guy I used to watch many years ago when I was your typical youtube atheist type. Jesus fucking christ what happened. Thank fuck I got off the youtube atheism bandwagon and started delving deeper into politics if this is where that leads.
Can you do a video on what positive things the uncontrolled migration bring to Europe? I as a right winger who lives in a poor working class area of the U.K. think that migration is going to be the down fall of my country and do not see any positives that come from it. In my day to day life all I see is that any where immigrant communities set up, rape, robberies, gang culture, murder, grooming gangs, protection rackets etc explode and everybody leaves the area that can afford to. Happy if you can show me the other side to my down beat view but I just don't see it in my daily routine.
Just came to this video and **boom** point blank headshot pointing out the central mood of altright being Fear. Fear of progress, fear of change, fear of Growing Up
I don't think they consider the ethnic groups of India and China anything other than two racial groups.
Of course cultures change, the question is whether or not it changes for the worse. I believe that through mass immigration it no doubt will.
Mocking Jared Taylor at the start with the lil Japanese imagery???  Golden!!!
I think it's quite funny that the comments you're attacking and showing in the beginning of the video aren't real arguments nor hard to debunk. How about face real criticism?
CONGRATS ON THE 100K BBY
People ask: Where did the Romans go? What happened to the Egyptians? Why don't we speak old Norse?  The answers are: Nowhere, nothing, and people do still speak old norse.  You want to see the descendants of the Romans? Look at Italy! The Romans never went anywhere! The farmers who tended their farms didnt start speaking a new language, and they didnt teach their children to speak a new language or adopt a new culture! Why would they? The Lombards didnt have the numbers to kill and replace every Roman farmer! Why would they even want to do that in the first place? The archaeological record between the invasion of the Gothic Lombards into Italy, and the Romans who were there before, is identical. If you dont know history, you would never realize what had happened. That is because the people who were there went on with their lives. They never adopted a new language, or new customs. They kept being Roman.  The Egyptians never left, the Norsemen, the Vikings, never stopped being who they were. But that doesn't mean they didnt change. The legacy of our ancestors, for good and bad, follows us even thousands of years later. But things change, even generation to generation. Sure I could probably speak to the McGregors, my Scottish ancestors who came to America before it was called America, and probably be understood, but the chances are they would be using words and terminology I would not be familiar with. Imagine that times ten, thats where the Romans went. Thats where our glorious legacy went.  It didn't go anywhere, its never going to go anywhere. A thousand years from now, they will be talking about the accomplishments and culture of Old America, our America. We are the most powerful country on the planet, and I doubt there is anything on the earth that can ever take that from us. The impact we leave is going to last a thousand years, and a thousand years after that.  But nothing lasts forever, the world doesnt exist in a glass case. Things change, people change, and that isn't a bad thing. All that is left is for us to make sure that the changes that happen are good ones. So that when our children and our childrens children look back on what we did here, now, today, they can do it with pride.
Maximum Cuckoldry !!!!   Sounds like a super power :D
Great video. You should tackle the "race realist" ideas pertaining to IQ and race.
You are putting me in a very hard place, human.  I dislike politics but I really want to subscribe.
_Maximun Cuckoldry_  One of them... one of them actually knows the term.   OHHH MAAAAAAAAAWWWWWWW GGGGGGAAAAAAAADDDDDDDWWWWWWW
How to piss off WN: just say you're Brown and have a white wife
wtf man how many languages do you speak?!
...this video was an experience
I'm having a little bit of a identity crisis as well. I've been binging on your videos and wondering if I have had it wrong this whole time. Your sense of humor is out of this world.
I just discovered you thanks to anarchist memes you are the best ever. The subtle ASMR reference slayed me. Great talking points, I'm soakin up the knowledge.
america was never a white country, native americans and blacks were a greater share of the population than they now are and there were free blacks everywhere.
No, no this is all too rational and grounded.  Are you sure you can't add in a jewish conspiracy or something about globalists.. This just makes too much sense.
contrapoints go on chapo
Good work.
0:33 Shit, I thought that was William Lane Craig.
I may not agree with your political views, but you're really funny
Whites have to be around for the gibs -_-
Yes, Jazz is good. Gotta love those tritone subs. But really the modern thing is add2s.
I dissagree with you a lot usually and I find some of your opinions shitty, but still, you queen, keep making video's
What happened to the White Nationalism video? I can't find it anywhere and normally when a video gets taken down everyone mirrors it...
YES THIS FIT YESSS
Piano Guitar  I'm pretty sure the german isnt google too  DAMN BITCH YOU TALENTED!! ❤❤
Queen II on the wall ♥♥
Petition for a Nazi Asmr video.
i hear you hbomb
Can someone help me figure out what the jpop song is that plays towards the beginning? I've looked up all the songs on the music list in the description, but none of them are it as far as I can tell.
-That cultures change slowly over time is not a justification to change it abruptly with people who outright state they want to change it permanently -We don't care about preserving your "culture", why should we? -Are you the biggest independent lefty on youtube with your 38k subs? We're shaking in our boots
You guys label anyone who is a critic of your content as "alt-right". This is evidence you don't even know what the "alt-right" is and you are using it as an excuse to slander anyone who points out the fallacies you SJW types make.
10/10 for panty shots
Why no purple pill guys?
Jesus Christ that getup is hot.
Sargon of Akkad is not a goon, you dense dunce.
why should poor eastern europeans be paying for hordes of unemployable migrants?
TIL contrapoints is half black
I congratulate you on Japanese that is perfectly alright Usually when people who dont speak japanese try to do this kind of thing, it's butchered horrendously!! You must have gotten a translation (or you do speak Japanese). The pronunciation is not good, but I thank you for representing accurately with correct grammar, it makes me happyy.
Amazing points, but are we all not gonna acknowledge the painfully accurate anime intro?
OMG Lindsay at 7:41 <3
Did you actually read the abstract at 3:47? "(In the short run with the refugee crisis) We find very small increases in crime in particular with respect to drug offenses and fare-dodging." Phew. How small was the increase in anti-trust violentions? What a joke
i kinda wish you sang 'Ol time rock n roll' in a German...or fake Nazi...accent. :)
ContraPoints, seriously...where do you get those wonderful clothes? Do you own, or rent? How can you afford all of that!?
You have got a real good rock voice!
The birthrate thing, as people move up socio-economically, they have less kids. Get it? See: Japan. Also "There's a difference between death and metamorphosis." -Probably the most poignant thing in this whole video.
Flower butterfly turns back Do not lie, but still with love
If you indulge in racist and misogynist imagery while fighting the alt-right, you are no comrade of mine. But you do look good in a peak cap, I'll give you that.
I really do love the way you deliver your arguments and even though I'm admittedly not a regular into the leftist youtube, I can have fun with your videos. But I have to say, you are dancing the same dance as all other right-wing youtubers do: deliver your own side of the story with well chosen statistics and facts, while "presenting" the other side of the issue with derision and mockery. And while I also do get it's not really meant to be a scientific paper and still entertaining, in the end of the day this sort of rhetoric is just going to make everyone angrier and ensure nobody is ever willing to compromise.
....PLS SING MORE
Degenerate trash. Chuck berry is fire though
You made no actual argument against an ehtnostate, you just said you disliked it. Japan, Poland, etc. are nations that go completely against your Multicultural world view, but you will gladly ignore them to keep your narrative from seeming false or contradictory.
I think a lot of these people feel that they are the only ones who are asked to adapt to changing realities, with immigrants being allowed to keep their own culture.  And self-segregation is indeed a problem which can lead to conflict if left to fester. It is not unreasonable to ask immigrants to assimilate at last insofar as is necessary for coexistence. To be honest, certain values and practices are incompatible with modern values (equality in front of the law, women/LGBT rights and the separation of state and church to name just a few). I think I will always welcome asylum seekers with open arms, but I will hold them to the exact same moral and legal standards as everybody else. Which leaves me in a position where I am reviled as a blood traitor by the lunatic right and an Islamophobe by the most extreme Elements on the left.
subscribed.
Punching people for thoughts isnt okay.
I'm sexually confused.
Well I am in love, please love me back
That was a great cover at the end but it needs more cowbell
lol I'm norwegian, and I guess sometimes I think it would be cool if we still had our old language and religion, but if we're gonna be pointing fingers then christianity and the black plague  (aside from u know.. Time, and the fact that culture and language is always evolving) were the main catalysts.
OMG LINDSAY ELLIS TOO? Oh my god.
I thought I heard T1J in there.
I fucking love you.
This is actual fucking art, lmao.
Oh i love being educated on politics and demographics by a tranny marxist.
What really weirds me out about this "white people deserve their own ethnostates" idea is that there ARE white ethnostates. They are in Central and Eastern Europe and include Czechia, Slovakia, Poland or Hungary. Almost no non-white people in any of those countries. This is both due to the fact that for years they were separated from the world by the Iron Curtain, and because they had never colonized any other continents or had any sort of extensive war campaigns in any non-white territories. So if you're a white nationalist and want your white ethnostate - just move to Eastern Europe!
Alt right is a joke made up of insecure guys who are dealing with not being as great as mommy told them.
you once mentioned paul fussel's "class" during one of your blogtv shows, which prompted me to look it up. i found a review of it on an alt-right race realist blogs and have pretty much adopted those same views since.
The guy at the beginning sounds like Kermit
that was brilliant!
BUT GG ALLIN
You know, that comment that The Golden One left kind of highlights how he seems like he could be a fairly pleasant and funny guy but is held back by being a nazi.
Random observation; Your singing voice sounds like it should be coming from someone with a ZZ Top beard whose entire wardrobe consists of denim. You should think of training it a bit more and taking up the blues.
HBomberguy!
Amazing, ContraPoints can play the piano, guitar AND the cowbell! So talented!
Is this why Hbomberguy doesn't make more videos!!!? CAMEOS!!!
Why don't you do a debate with Jared Taylor?
Africa is for Africans Asia is for Asians White countries are for Everyone Thats white genocide
Roll on the warrior age, then we can wade through the blood of our enemies. Cantware rice INVICTA!!!!!!!!!!!
Whites will become a minority in Europe, but WN is stupid, okay.
I'll agree that most white nationalists are people who are afraid of any type of change, but there are reasonable concerns to be had with massive demographic shifts. For example, democratic societies can't truly reflect the ideas of "their people" unless there is a "their people." In America, this largely means white people as they are the majority. What are white Americans to do if other ethnic groups change the core values of our country and people? I do admit that ideology transcends race at an individual level, but only to an extent as minorities overwhelming vote one way, which is understandable as it is in their own self interest. This brings me to the welfare state, which is unsustainable if you let people from any third world country in.
Listen to some NatSoc black metal.
I didn't know buffalo bill had a channel.
Our grandfathers defeated the Nazis so technically they are now a protected Minority.
there is a rape crises in europe now. What we have are millions of immigrants from a very misogynistic male dominated culture coming into europe. They have their ideas of what women are good for, and are assaulting many european women who wont respect muslim culture. It is all true and we have many victims trying to speak out about it. We have women from those arab countries trying to escape from that culture and they are warning us of what is coming. Those women are being ignored, or forced to return.  Women like Ayaan Hirsi Ali who has been vilified by people like you
Very misleading
more stockings please....yes i am a pervert to    you should join me on pornhub..could be fun
suppose of alt-right doesn't really realize what the Nazis did 70 years ago I mean it's in a history book you could look up but Nazism was but we all know that they won't
I'm sure a mass invasion of black nations by white immigrants that radically alters their culture would be greeted with the same response. When leftists say things like "I condemn all enthostates" it's only because they feel they've been backed into a rhetorical corner wherein saying anything else feels dumb. It's not really where there heart is though and you'll never find any evidence that they treat such things even remotely equally.
ANOTHER point. Use of color. You've got a complementary scheme with the green in the hallway and red (pink) in your room. And use this contrast between your black clothes and the greed backdrop to separate foreground and background. It's garish. Harsh even. But it totally works. I'm really impressed.
And - a criticism. Too close to the mic. You need a real pop filter. That screen isn't enough.
This is _Seven Beauties_.   Lina Wertmueller, you have found a soulmate!
I may disagree with you on a few of your positions, but I really respect how you backed up many of your points in this video with data and logic, and I found my self agreeing with a lot of them. Also, I appreciate your unique brand of humor. :)
Damn, i like your boots ;-)  Good points aboute the fear of change....
2:52 - did not knew the Nazis invented ASMR.
fantastic video senpai
Good video.
Just finished, this was your worst video I've seen, the least convincing.
DUH, multi-ethnic societies will be fine because I say so. Or maybe, they wont be fine Contradickhead, maybe it will be like South Africa, or Brazil, a deeply divided crime-ridden shithole, maybe it will be like that too. Your "faith" in the success of multi-ethnic societies seem to be "DUH AMERICAN EXPERIMENT", America was like 90% white for most of its most successful history, it's not an example of a significantly multi-racial society excelling.
"Hey don't worry white people, you could be enslaved and oppressed and have your society raped, but come on, its wont be THAT bad, jeez"
"Israel doesnt have the right to be Jewish" You lost me right there.
Your foreign languages are always on point. Im not the best judge for Japanese but it sounded pretty authentic and your German in this and the other video was about 90% perfect. Also you sing really well but you definitely know that already.
i think equating sargon with trump and breitbart is a little off..
idk about ye but ill happily leave all the white nationalists on an island of their own ...
I don't get the "cuckold" insult. Isn't that usually defined as someone who's will has been broken,usually by a female? Its pretty obvious that Contra is doing their own thing,almost to the point of being "willful". Its also fairly obvious that Contra's videos will convince at least a few people to back off the ledge. If we're going to be pragmatic functionalists,then we gotta admit that the function here is saving lives. Consequently, I can't bring myself to care if the methodology employed is weird or even derived from a desire to impress feminists. Does Superman care if the rescuer who pulls people from a burning building has pink hair? These harassers always come off like the imitation batmen from Dark Knight. They're just not equipped to do the job for which they would appoint themselves. Granted,its not like I would want them to succeed is protecting white people from healthcare or Cinco de Mayo celebrations. But that view of "protecting whites" stems from their limitations.
Very well argued and articulated sir! You are a model to all the left, showing us that free speech is actually valuable. Not from the point of view of turning alt-righters into reasoning human beings though, although it is nice to try. Love you!
If the Alt-Right is basically Alternate Right. So they are left wing.
This is a bait and switch, it looks at a situation which contains desires and values, such as the desire to live comfortably around ones own people with who you share common values. And then goes on to assert that there's no empirical claims for this. No shit, and there's no empirical claims to the contrary either because we're not talking about demonstrable facts. What is a fact is that we sure don't share the same values as the increasing number of immigrants and muslims, when 1400 children are raped in Rotherham and many more in other similar circumstances all around the UK, and the rape gangs doing this are muslim, we have to draw the line and say that we simply do not hold the same values, that in our culture we've established a culture which benefits everyone by categorizing these acts as morally abhorrent. We also don't perform female genital mutilation, we don't throw gay people off buildings, we don't suicide bomb children or cause other large scale acts of terrorism. We also don't believe women are an underclass to be subservient to men, we don't inbreed causing untold genetic issues. We value free speech and freedom of expression and not that people should die for drawing cartoons of religious figures. In fact we're increasingly more atheistic and secular.  And what is more, the vast majority of our population isn't sympathetic to those ideas either, they don't support or endorse them, we don't act as moderates who support the extremists, we just damn those acts for the most part, outright. What facts are you going to use to support this? None, you either hold those values or you don't and it's not unreasonable to want to protect our nation and our values, after all holding these values is in part what made our nation so great and why people want to immigrate here and not so much in the other direction.
I love you
1. Razor-wire fences for children? Nope. The majority of the immigrants into Europe are young men. Even if they weren't, what gives people a right to do this? If my neighbor's kids are starving and we live in a country with no welfare programs, does that give them a right to storm my house, squat on my property and take my food? It would be nice of me to give them some things, definitely, but HOW MUCH and for HOW LONG should I be expected to give? And how do answers to these questions change if they want to rape my daughters/wife or vandalize things and make my life a living hell?  2. Slaves coming from Africa and being given Judeo-Christian values is not in any way equivalent with allowing in Muslims... Muslims who want to assert Sharia law, rape uncovered women and run child-kidnapping rings that threaten the natives who allowed them in to begin with. (See Britain etc.)  3. Culture will always change, you are correct. That doesn't mean we allow it to change in a bad direction, nor that the change should be engendered by insane foreign invaders (shouting for hijrah on the trains into Germany) who don't care a wit for the native culture that they're trying to change by force.  4. If liberals believe racism has been an issue in the past, then why do they not think it can swing the other way if populations shift enough in a given region? How can you trust that others will be obsessed with "checking their privilege" as much as white/Christian/Western people have been rather than simply enslaving us reflexively?  5. If you believe that Israel and Japan shouldn't do what they do, kudos to you for standing up and saying so... however, the problem is that none of us can really control what anyone else does other than ourselves. If we can't depend on other countries/religions/cultures/ethnicities to be fair the way we ourselves want to be, why shouldn't we protect ourselves from them the same way Israel and Japan do? Why do we blindly impose a double-standard that harms us (i.e. we let hostile Middle Easterners flow in to our countries in enormous quantities yet, if we were to go over there, we would likely be raped/shot etc.)? Do we not have a right to long-term defense of ourselves and our values?  6. A lot of anti-anti-anti's (or however many anti's we use at this point to essentially say "liberals") imply that immigration is "just something that happens" rather than being something we are in control of and consequently choose to allow or disallow. Why does the left often characterize it as a natural disaster rather than something that multiple parties are choosing? Is that an attempt to mischaracterize and further legitimize it? Because, the thing is... we CAN choose to stop it AT ANY TIME. It's called machine-gun drones (Deterrence is a powerful motivator, although voting Merkel straight out of office would certainly help).  7. People from other regions need to work to fix the problems in those regions. We can help them, but they ultimately have to choose to do it themselves or it will NEVER work. The big root cause for all of the immigration is that other people are failing at a moral and societal level and making their countries into crap piles. Stop wailing "oh the poor children" unless you have the will to tell other countries to shape up. If individuals in these places don't find their aspiration, fix their problems and come together to make something bigger than themselves (as many in Europe and America DIED to), then for exactly what reason shouldn't we annex them and make them the 51st, 52nd etc. state? Especially given that we have so many of their natives as immigrants/citizens and have to support them financially? If they won't fix their countries, then we not only have a right to their territory in a sense, but also a moral obligation to step in and assert proper control. Hey, I have no doubt that some of their problems are out of their control—however, there's a big difference between helping a country that is "being responsible but has been stricken by a quake or tsunami," and "throwing open the doors to millions of people from failed states where aid continues to be dumped down a black hole and disappears."  Also, thank you for reading your comments and at least attempting to address them, that's actually really refreshing.
Man, you are a genious. Believe me (with trump voice).
"Also quit the alcohol, i guarantee that you will feel more fufilled and happy without it."  I don't drink, since always. And yet, life insists in being empty as shit.
while I understand that the Nazi costume is to play a character in, it does make me extremely uneasy that you actually have bought Nazi paraphernalia, especially in a kink sense, which fetishizes the torture, genocide, and enslavement of my own family as well as millions of others. I like your videos but that's fucked :/
more cowbell! brilliant--thank you
Nice Videoru
Where has this Channel been all of my life??
You are so talented!
I love you, keep doing what you're doing
When you came out in that leather costume, I laughed so hard.
every people deserved their own state! a people without an own state sufferd the most! that we saw with the jews and nowdays see with the kurds!    
omg I love the Beyonce throughout. she's completely underappreciated.
I recognized HBomberGuy there!
You are right about USA. FUCK USA
I'd love to have you as a bf
Tl;DR: Stop noticing things, nothing's happening, stop it.
Queers are helping feminist to accomplish what they really want. https://drafthouse.com/show/women-only-screening-wonder-woman Are you gonna pretend this is not happening? I have seen what gays and queers are doing, but you know that is ok because we are more interstellar to teach our children what you whatever you are are doing to those who you think have no idea what you have done.
making vaporwave anticapitalist again
Holy shit, those boots! I mean, the rest of the video was good as well but those boots are incredible.
Of course Contrapoints, a tranny degenerate who will never have children, isn't going to care if whites become a despised minority in the countries their ancestors built.   As long as Western countries continue to have a constant stream of brown and black people for him to commit sodomy with, he will be content.
8:50 This idiot thinks mummification doesn't prepare the spirit of dead for the afterlife, fuck this guy. I'm prepping for my death by collecting gold miniature boats and other trinkets.
Hon, take some good advice that i was given a very long time ago: 'winning an argument against a genius is VERY hard. Winning an argument against stupid is just flat out impossible.' Love your work.
You speak Japanese too? What don't you do Nicholas? lol
Hilarious. Smart. High quality. Subscribed. I love you. I can't stand these people. They're doomed in their stupidity and blindness.
Much of your "analysis" on immigrant crime & rape is outright false. Also your understanding of the demographic shift is way past the mark. Facts are that Europe has a large amount of elderly people and the vast majority of migrants coming into Europe are in their young years(18-35), so the demographic damage gets exacerbated a lot.
Do you realize that if we don't fight as a group and others, such as Moslems do, we will die out. Yes I am scared of our genetic group dying out, and that is the common sense approach from a Darwinistic standpoint as those that are afraid of dying out are more likely to take actions not to.
America is a terrible country.
America is not a good example.
You had me at homeric battle to the death!!!
wow, that was an amazing talk...I actually semi-respected this aspect of the alternative right, while simultaneously hating Nationalism and the concept of the Nation-State. But I could appreciate the idea of "I want my culture to be preserved", because even I feel it. But, what you said about them fearing their culture would go away, but that's nonsensical, and how AA culture persevered despite it all, was really an AMAZING insight. Thanks a lot!
Disagreement: "Debunked better than I could elsewhere, please subscribe to Sean and Jen."  Sean and Jen annoy me. You entertain me. I will likely disagree with you about 65%, but I want to hear the debunking arguments from you. We can't just displace responsibility, because viewerships and fan bases don't always overlap.  Except Teal Deer. Teal Dear is our lord, master, and kinky savior. Everyone should listen to Teal Deer.
Black lives matter does not advocate for an ethno-state as policy, but then neither does the alt right. What both groups have in common are large portions of their group saying it would be a good thing while not necessarily saying their views are representative of the group as a whole.
Great videos and great intelligence. Keep on making videos like this to cut a scythe through the bullshit today.
These white nationalists underestimate the power of genetic engineering. Why be white when you could be more than white?
did you just call Beyonce under-appreciated....?
I recognize that voiceover at 7:17! It's hbomberguy!
So glad I found this channel. YouTube needs you.
Where did you get your room lights
Fantastic intro it was great
Honestly, When You Look Feminine Enough Your pretty hot, and i'm straight.
Thanks doc
I love you so much contra
Old Norse was wiped out by Christianity and danish aristocratic gentrification. So one of the pillars the right was responsible for it. Lmao
you are funny.
You're #1 dude. This is fantastic. You treat the topic with respect and don't beat up straw men. I think this is the way to affect change; through truly listening and simply doing due diligence.  These type of people do have real concerns, even if they're totally misplaced, and addressing them like you're doing will bring more people back into centrist, egalitarian positions than "defeating them".  Subbed.
this looks like if young Bea Arthur had a show where she called out white nationalist fuckboys in a military uniform (no offense meant at all)
The black music point, are you implying that their culture hasn't changed? Like they were singing soul, blues and jazz while they were being marched onto the boats, that's why modern African culture and black American culture are pretty much the same right? Their culture changed, just because they still like to sing doesn't mean it hasn't. That's like saying in a hyperbolic islamifyed Europe, that because Europeans like to pray to god their culture hasn't changed even though their praying to a different god.
Here is my official review of this video:  its good. I want that purple and green lighting.
why are you so hot in that leather outfit goddamn!
how... how are you, like, the perfect human being???
Contra is a robot...there's no way ONE person can speak German, a bit of Japanese and still be able to sing?!
hello, i am danish, and while i agree with alot of your points and thats comming from a guy who considers himself right leaning, i will say that one of the main reasons that i dont want muslims into my beautiful country is because the religion is the exact opposite of my culture, we drink beer, we eat copius amounts of pork while drinking beer, we bang eachother, before marriage, no matter the gender, and usually after drinking beer. Now some may not think this is a healthy culture, but its ours, and we are steadily being forced to change our ways to be "more welcomming" by our politicians, because we have freedom of religion. but apparently that doesnt entitle us to be free from religion anymore, not when its the so called Religion of Peace in question. Thats my 2 scents
L I B E R A L I S M   I S   D E A D ,    L O N G    L I V E    T H E    L E F T
Damn moon speak.
phaggot
How do I meet and become your friend and beat you at street fighter.
You are a braver person than I. American culture will continue to evolve and change as all cultures do. We just have to be careful not to force change. Doing so may cause problems the like of which will result in some something you called surmountable. I doubt victims of rapid/forced change would see themselves as surmountable. Or am I submitting to irrational fear? Bottom line in my opinion change is good as long as it comes naturally.
u r 2 gud @ yt
.... as a pretty kinky queer jew lady... you in that costume is making me feel weird things I don't wanna think about. bitte fraulein ;)  now I'm gonna call my grandma and apologize for something.  I suddenly feel the weight of 2000 years of guilty.
still not cool with islam ever trying to be a part of western culture. So i guess I agree with the alt-right on that part. As an ex-muslim. But white nationalism is fucking retarded.
praise kek
Why does this guy dress like this? Seems very gay, is he a gay guy?, if so no problem but makeup on men is very creepy to me!
More cowbell plx
As someone who was drawn in by white nationalism (many years ago at a pretty young age, and obviously if I say that now it's because I've moved on from it) I think that you have hit just the right spot by mentioning this fear of annihilation/death. And I don't recall anyone ever getting that right before.  They fed into me a fear that my culture would brutally change and die off, and that fear still exists inside me in fact. But overall I've come to peace with the fact that all cultures evolve and change and arguably "die" sooner of later, and that becoming inhumane in a panicked reaction to this inevitability is absurd.  I could go on but anyway the point is, while I don't think anyone who experiences that fear is going to stop experiencing it just because one person points out once that it's inevitable, over time it may eventually sink in. Love your videos.
The next episodes of Jojo's Bizarre Adventure are looking a little weird.
J  e  w  i  s  h    h  u  m  o  u  r
Kanpeki.
Great work man! Love the vids!
I like the little piece of music that you add to your vids😂 good shit dude keep it up
u r fucking shredding at the end
Thank you for making these wonderful videos, they are humorous, positive and well-thought. :)
Omg, you're like the cutest! I love your dresses!
"You are but a dog and I am your master." Didn't know the Golden One was into kink.
OK, while cultures change, we want it to change in a good direction. and being replaced by minorities will change culture.
I have to be honest though. I'm a little bit intrigued by some positions on the alt-right. I mean the moderate alt-right that concentrates not on jews, "race" and black people, but on muslim immigration and a failure to integrate them properly, at least in parts of Europe. This is especially a result of a naive view on multiculturalism that discourages pressure for assimilation as racist or thinks that integration will happen either way, even though they do not know the strong pull factors that can prevent it, especially patriarchal cultures who don't want their women to become freeer and therefore isolate themselves to stop that. I'm a German, and i have strewn away from the official government line (which is funnily enough conservative) because i think the numbers of refugees that have come into Germany are just way too much to integrate, at least by this government. Our integration policy is so flawed and ineffective and either racist or relativist, that i am actually fearful for my country, because i can already see the high numbers of visitors of salafist and islamist mosques by young male refugees. In my town where i study, half of the facebook likes of the islamist and the salafist mosque are from refugees, all of them male without exception. 2/3 of all refugees here are males, half of all are just young males, which is a risk group for violence and problems. Some of them just hang around train stations and public squares drinking and harrassing strangers because they have nothing to do and are not forced to go to German language training, which aren't widely available either way. A female friend of mine has had the ordeal of two rape attempts by two different male refugees that she had as roommates, just because she often wears revealing clothes. And these were just Syrians, the Afghans are even worse. A liberal friend of mine worked in refugee shelters as a translator for afghan refugees, because she's from Iran, and she was just shocked how incredibly harsh their cultural values are. She was thrown out of the shelter because she tried to help an Afghan woman escape from her husband, and then this husband beat up people in the shelter. So the shelter staff blocked her out because they didn't like the conflict (which is one way to say: Just beat up your wife already, we don't care, as long as you don't make a fuss about it. And that's a dangerous way to do it). She also said, that the salafists were the first to approach the refugees, and in fact many refugees have already committed terror attacks in Germany, even though we haven't had one major attack until 2015. Since then we had more than 5 in just one and a half year, one blew himself up and only killed himself because he wasn't allowed into a music festival, another attacked tourists with a knife, one was almost committing a terror attack and then killed himself in prison, and one perpetrated the Berlin attack.  We have in fact let in a cultural environment by high numbers into our liberal societies, that is comparately sexist, antisemitic, fundamentalist and authoritarian. And we have no functional system in place to control this migration, because the EU outer borders don't work, and the borders inside aren't policed well due to the Schengen system. And every year another 200.000 refugees come into Germany.  All of this is a threat to the liberal system, and a huge bonus for nazis and nationalists, because we don't have a controlled immigration system and a working integration system. So the failure of our system results in racists gaining huge power, because the conservatives who are supposed to do moderate proposals to restrict and control migration, aren't doing their job well.
Your German was actually quite good. A strong accent, but good, i could understand it well.
You're too good Contra and much needed! Btw are you on Empornium? I have a feeling i know you...If you are on Empornium its literally impossible that you havent downloaded one on my torrents... If your not on Empornium i can get you in.
Its curious how I didn't see any alt-right comments of Spain, a country which had at the middle ages some of the longest cultural changes in history with the muslism. Its true they were expelled and the iberian peninsula was finally in the control of the Christian but this meant a huge change in the Spanish culture in vocabulary, architecture, traditions and also the mixing (actually I don't know how to write it) of races on people.
Some good points, unfortunately misunderstandings and some usual, already debunked arguments mixed in.  I'd call it a 30 / 70, 30% of the points made are very good and solid, 70% are made through the misrepresentation or misunderstanding or current factual evidence.  You should dig deeper into statistics and European history before you assert something about those countries for example.  Also, you should understand that citing a country like China were its various ethnic groups identify as Chinese and where the governement is bit by bit forcing its main Han/Mandarin culture and language onto the rest and assimilating them through creeping policies (Hong Kong is a good example of that) is not a smart wrong thing to do. Let us not forget about the internal colonialism in Tibet, where they kidnapped the official Tulkou, forcefully extinguishing the Dalaï Lama reincarnation cycle, and moved massive amounts of Chinese citizens in order to overwhelm the natives and assimilate them. If you get a look at what is happening there, you can see that the Tibetan culture isn't changing, isn't evolving, it is simply disappearing.  So long as you do not take the difference between cultural change and cultural death into account, you will miss the point.   The aftermath of the fall of the Western Roman Empire is an other very good example of that, and so is the slow disappearance of French meridian languages and culture practices due to Oïl cultural dictatorship. We could also talk about the Yotvingians or the middle eastern tribes that were conquered by the Arab Muslims ...  Evolution is when changes are brought by people who are part of the community, here the changes are brought by people who aren't part of it.
I don't agree with your opinions or viewpoints or anything, but god this was funny to watch. As someone who respects your right to free speech, keep up the good work. You use it in the best way; with humor. You're the kind of leftist I like.
as an American that has spent extensive amounts of time in both China and India, citing either as examples of multicultural/multiethnic countries in ways that are comparable to america or much of europe is a joke. go take a walk down the block in any major city in china or india - you are going to find 99+% indian people in india and 99+% chinese people in china. compare this to your walk down the block in practically any American city. there is really no comparison!!   the wikipedia pages you cite don't really refute this. sure, there are many subgroups among both indians and chinese/asian people. but america is full of whites, asians, blacks, latinos, arabs, indians, mixed races etc. etc. america is a melting pot of virtually every kind of people on the planet. much of europe is becoming the same type of melting pot. china and india are nothing like this, not even close, not by a long shot. why make such a disingenuous argument? why not honestly admit that the racial make-ups of china and india are radically different than the racial make-up of america and much of europe?   i don't have time to dig deep into some of your other claims, but this one glaring error makes your entire video extremely suspect.
You know what's scary? THE RISE OF BLACK NATIONALISM IN THE WEST! and I'm not even fucking white! You should know that the only people who would accept your cross dressing/ genderqueer lifestyle are those in majority white or Asian countries. Go to any majority black or Arab country and they'd kill you and leave you in a ditch.
alt right and nazism aren't synonyms
LOL.
Good video. But why didn't ContraPoints make any arguments? /s
holy fuck i love you
intersting points but i definitly don't agree with the most of what you're saying. Ofc there is fear around importing a culture that think it is fully acceptable to rape, stone, push gays of buildings. They support terrorism, just look up the recent events happening in europe. If you live in  EU (my area) you're a big racist that deserves to be locked up if you even touch or critzice these worries.  The people that shout things like racist are PC controlled by the media and pressured by friends and family to follow along this humanistic idea- that everyone is equal worth-. If you don't surrender to PC you are a threat. And once europe is under PC mind control it will be more than a great threat to US. this dread and nothingness you bring up is actually is correct.. because those are the only things that are going to be left if political correctness evolves bigger than with it already is. People are scared of what, which who and how many are being imported from this culture of *peace*  1 million people might not destroy a culture but saying it's impactless and doesn't have consequences is wrong, EU doesn't even have assimilation rules... And it's even more threatening when the government itselves put on burkas and say that eu should surrender.
we are rock n roll!
I congradulate you and adore you. Try going into the vampirefreaks chatroom and explaining this... I failed miserably
One suggestion, add more chill hop music!
LMFAO! Dead. I love your sense of humor. x'D
First and foremost:  You are but a dog, and I am your master. Secondly, I subbed to your channel yesterday and you've managed to distract me from my very important uni work by being intellectually, emotionally, and even a little physically stimulating. Weird combo of I wanna date you and I wanna be you.   10/10 will be supporting on Patreon soon.
God damn, your makeup is on point.
You're the embodiment of a John Waters screenplay. I love it!
You're absolutely making some fair points. My main problem (and I happen to live in Sweden, for the record) with mass immigration is that we literally cannot handle it. We're taking in more people than we're capable of, we're suffering a terrible housing shortage, we're unable to integrate the newcomers into Swedish society and make them understand our laws, and we end up with "immigrant ghettos" where there are practically self-appointed jihadi police on the streets telling women to cover up. This has become such a big problem that the painfully politically correct mainstream media has even started reporting on it. Immigrants who flee to Sweden are literally saying that they feel like they never left the horrors of their home countries because the dickheads they fled from followed them here and are still dictating their lives.
Gotta say I'm surprised sumone on the left knows about facts, usually specially lately those on the left cannot debate for their own opinions or beliefs, & when presented with facts completely disregard them with "I feel this way" which doesn't change the fact & means ur delusional. So its hilarious how u act like wen gathering ur facts to Bak up sum of ur claims which weren't fully presented, as tho those on the right  don't use facts which is delusional, although due to the hope Trump wasn't a sellout the right is becoming like the left devoid of facts.
I gotta say u are one of few on ur side that can actually debate & isn't scared of facts although u do leave alot of facts out. Like Plus BLM is a white movement. More than half of who is involved in BLM is white people. plus u forget to mention it was muslims who rounded up & captured the Africans & sold them to to the Europeans. But I Kno those are facts ur side doesnt like & stays away from bcuz it destroys ur narrative & bubble.
U are referring to a small minority who are white nationalist. plus an even smaller minority who want a white ethnostate. Majority of nationalists are against the selling out of their country to big corporations who created the majority of their wealth in their nation.
Best video I've seen in a while.
Hey you should be a guest on the drunken peasants i would be nice for the guest to disagree with the rest of the podcast
the intro just makes you seem like what the true definition of an Otaku is.
Fuck, I really dislike your style but I can't stop agreeing with you
Accurate, on point ; yes and yas ! ok , al-right ! lets do it ; go on , keep it up ; work work work ; slay that shit , spread the butter on the bread ; teach em' ; tell em who u are ; u go burl ;
Got a semi when I saw the outfit. You must spend alot on clothes
shout out to Smooth-Brain Colton
it's....beautiful. (keep up the good work these videos are excellent)
i love you !!!
A E S T H E T I C <3
I love you so fucking much  this video and your others are so intelligently created  props to you
Miles Davis is a good place to start.  And Chuck Berry.
Liked, Subscribed.  ~ 6:05 I think you should actually make the point why ethno-states are bad outright rather than simply stating it. As in I think it's important  ~ 9:00 In Germany the population could easily be overrun by immigrants simply due to the typical number of children the immigrants have relative to the German populace. I hate the alt-right but I do see this in some sense as 'reverse colonisation' and sympathise. I can at least agree that there is SOME number for which immigration is too high and likely will, as it does sometimes, cause problems. I don't see reverse colonisation as the evolution of culture and 'it could be worse' isn't very encouraging. It isn't genocide, but that doesn't mean I like it, or that it's positive.  ~ 10:50 I have loved diversity since I was a boy, but I think what actually happened is that these countries which were not used to dealing with diversity were subject to a radical influx and the result is the alt right.   I get the sense that you think this is about culture, but I would be much more inclined to think that its about and somehow they rationalise that it may be necessary to cut out diversity if it means preserving the rest of western values.
I`m like ...really attracted to your confidence.
The best use of background music on Youtube
1:55  Mean internet comments are harassing women and ruining their lives? Seriously.
8:31 exactly, just like Plato, which is why he's the original proto-fascist
The correct answer is inter racial gay porn.
Anyone scared that whites wont always be the majority is a racist idiot.
Personally, I'm very connected to my Celtic heritage. At least compared to the average Scotch/Irish descendant. That's why I'm going to a Scottish heritage festival in Sacramento this month; they're fun. White nationalists, you will have a leg to stand on when ethnic minorities are protesting events like these instead of just the racist jackassery that you conflate with having a culture. But that's not going to happen, because unlike your shit, wearing a kilt doesn't give black and brown people a reason to think that I'm going to assault them. White isn't an ethnicity, it's a skin color. A culture isn't defined by what the people who belong to it look like; it's defined by art that builds off other art. And white people don't have that because, being the majority for so long, at least in America white people were so focused on dominating the culture that they made themselves synonymous with American multiculturalism. Like if we gave you that W.E.T. that you're constantly complaining about, what would you even show on it? Miley Cyrus? Eminem? Elvis? How would that be much different from the music scene on the general pop charts?  It's totally existential dread, Contra. And to the white nationalists, I say... "Come to the party". Get a grip, ask yourself what you care about and where those values came from, and define yourself by that. I gaurun-fucking-tee you that no brown person is going to call you a racist for learning to speak Norse if that's what you want to do. If anything, I've gotten nothing but positive attention for my pluralistic embrace of my heritage. But that's because I wouldn't have a conniption if I saw someone with dark skin playing the bagpipes. I'd assume that they either also had a connection to the Celts (because  there ARE black Scottish people) or that they admired something that I grew up with enough to want to continue the tradition. Both are a win for my values.  Although I guess it's possible that I'll get to the festival and it will be full of Nazis this year... FUUUUU
First video! At first was like ehhhhhh wtf..... but i watched the whole thing and enjoyed it.
Am I the only one who finds it hot to hear Contrapoints speak in German?
ehh you're using modern american black culture as an argument for why culture can't degenerate. not the strongest argument there.
...............you're super hot
That was awesome
The increase of sexual crimes especially by groups of young men in sweden is something new to us. This is a phenomeneon that wasn't well known of by the police until the refugee crisis.
Needs more cowbell
Ohhh Scheiße jetzt verdirbst du mir meine S/M Nazi Fantasie auch noch .
Holy shit, TGO actually left a comment on your video? You should do a follow-up.
jo dude as a german chick:  your pronunciation is top notch.  Also: Nice Points.
I despise the very idea of you. Urge.. to kill... rising.
This guy is certainly better than average at speaking to "White Nationalists", but he also doesn't completely understand their world view like he thinks he does. I disagree with some of his points, but I will still listen for the time being. Subbed for now.
Keep being the antidote some people desperately need. Subscribed.
The violin music at 7:14 is Sonata No. 1 in G Minor by Bach
/pol/
Goddamn Japanese sympathizer
You just got yourself a subscriber.
Wait wait wait, is white nationalism as we know it today the result of the rapid technological and social advancement we've made in the past hundred years? The children of today would look back on my youth and find it foreign and unimaginable, much like how I view the world my parents were raised in. Culture is shifting around us at an unprecedented rate. Ideas that once had years of staying power become old hat after a few weeks in the memetic meat-grinder; is this landscape what drives these people to such extreme rhetoric and disillusionment?  Is this the thread that connects the disparate nonsense white nationalists froth at the mouth over? A female-lead Ghostbusters and muslim immigration are finally linked: They are the vandalized tombstones of white male nostalgia. They are evidence that society has marched on since their childhood, before the Information Age exposed them to the fact that minorities exist and deserve equality. They can no longer escape reminders that their upbringing was a saccharine lie, so they must take refuge in conspiracy theories and other forms of fiction to cope with that revelation.  No-one wants to accept that their happy memories are built in part upon the suffering of others, no-one wants to accept responsibility for the system that grants them privilege, and no-one wants to give up that position of power over everyone else, because then they can be judged. Perhaps these men infantilize themselves and everyone else because they want to return to those glory days, to go back to the garden of Eden before the veil of ignorance was lifted. They want to forget, but the culture that surrounds us won't let them.  Perhaps, or maybe I'm just being dramatic for the fun of it. I think it's a neat idea, nonetheless.
I NEED your fucking "Feminazi" costume. I'm going to wear it in public and piss people off with it. :)
As an Asian person I find the cultural appropriation at the start of this video absolutely bigoted and racist.
3:45 The idea that refugees in Germany have struggled to find gainful employment more than anything isn't controversial at all on the "alt right". The "scaremongering goons" at Breitbart reported on this repeatedly, and the main fear comes from integrating them into German society and how likely that would be- which it so say not at all, because muslim populations who have immigrated legally throughout Europe haven't integrated and are net drains on the economy and society, because they don't want to integrate. Nevermind that Merkel herself has openly admitted they underestimated how difficult it would be to handle the refugees.  The idea that there's been little increase in crime is really interesting though, because all of the things like the axe attacks, truck attacks, the new year's sex assaults etc. never happened in Germany until the refugees came in (the latter of which was suppressed heavily by the German police and media.) The same thing is claimed with Sweden, but you don't have to look far to see how Sweden actively suppresses migrant crime stats and other problems associated with them. But I don't know, I just think the idea that mass, unvetted migration from some of the most dangerous countries in the world to first world countries is causing little to no increases in crime to be a load of shit. If you actually think that, can you explain how that works?  I also like your cherry-picked example of europeans building razor wire fences in front of children- cherry-picked because you conveniently omit how the majority of refugees to Europe are grown men (and say shit about Saudi Arabia's refusal to take any more than a small, unverified number of Syrian refugees). Or maybe you're also thinking of all those "child refugees" that are blatantly adult men but are accepted without question.  But I really like your example of african-americans though, with their "century long renaissance of music and art", saying nothing of their astonishing crime rates, dismal academic performance and scientific and technical achievement, and general social and cultural dysfunction. I don't really think this has terribly much to do with anything unique to the US though, since they're similar to black populations throughout the world. Maybe you should look into that with wondering why the "alt-right" is fearful of mass immigration.
youtube recommended you efter watching 10 MOVIE MISTAKES Fixed By Beauty And The Beast (2017) good algorithm
I'm   in  love  Must get thin  must dress  like  that
OMG   I love   your   outfit
Herein lies the problem. Old videos were timely and refreshing. Now all about shock value and commiserating with audience. Less and less about making a reasoned argument and more about buzzwords and tropes. We get it, just trying to make a living. It was good while it lasted.
Why are you so fucking hot!
私のホバークラフトはうなぎがいっぱいです.
Newgrounds you say? I wonder what that connection is... o__O
Had to subscribe to you just for your "deranged maniac" joke... lmao
weeb check nonbinary trans something check  cosplayer check and of course he's also a fucking communist too
I'm happy to see that autism is well and alive.
What you fail to understand, is you are becoming the very thing you hate. The election of Trump has made the left all but lose their minds, and meanwhile, in Germany, Merkel's destructive policies has actually caused people to vote in NEO NAZIS in seats of government. See what happens when you push? People push back, and you may suffer consequences on a national scale you had not intended.
this is pure degeneracy.
How about you go live as a white minority in South Africa. Then come back and talk about the fears of the alt right faggot. Nobody is saying we are losing numbers but that we would lose the majority percentages needed to be in power in our societies. Pick any country that isn't white or asian (japanees, jews, etc...) in power and let me know how their countries are going. This is your whole fucking video https://www.amazon.com/How-Lie-Statistics-Darrell-Huff/dp/0393310728#reader_0393310728
Gutes Video! Weitermachen! :)
I've said it before and I'll say it again. As a bisexual philosophy major, I've struck gold and oil at the same time with this channel.
Oh dear. Oh dear me. That hat, those boots. You look stunning, no fash-o Update: THE HUSKY VOICE SINGING. KILL ME
I love you, you are fucking brilliant
Holy shit your channel is amazing. please never stop.
This is my first video I've seen of yours and...I freaking love it. This is God Tier.
William Faulkner would probably like this video...
You are so fucking sexy.
Did you ever see "Angels in America"? :) It's one of my big favorites. Touches all these subjects, kinda.
Nazi ASMR? Kinky.
I'm gonna be fantasizing about you tonight. ^______^
7:40 Lindsay, you are my hero
tfw i'm only watching you because of your fashion sense  i can't help myself i just want to look like you
Nationalism doesn't mean national socialism. It was nationalism that defeated hitler. Really do people need to join the nazi party if they believe in tougher immigration and nationalism.
Fantàstic!!
7:32 Was... was that Lindsay Ellis' voice? If it was: Nice southern accent, Lindsay!
I subscribed after watching this. I love it.
Nazi ASMR? Genius
Sweden has a Ultra Left Revolutionary Group, why are you stuck up.
People Marxist is not a race , Whites can be commies😂😂😂😂😂😂
WHAT I AM  OUTRAGED. THIS INDIVIDUAL IMPLIES THEY LIVE IN THE MOST MULTICULTURAL SOCIETY IN THE WORLD: SAYS THEY ARE AMERICAN. CHECK YOUR CANADA FACTS BUCKO!
fantastic video
A response to Contrapoint: Black music helps...right?   https://www.youtube.com/edit?o=U&video_id=UCHvX60M56s
why do you condemn the ethnostate? hate freedom of association?
just found your channel thanks to philosophytube and wanted to say keep up the good work
Good video. As an example of a multi-cultural non-white country, you missed the most obvious example of Brazil, but nitpick aside, I do have some questions about the current immigrant crisis. 1. Why do those people fleeing war-torn Syria insist in moving to white countries with vastly different values than theirs where there are perfectly good stable wealthy arab countries nearby such as the United Arab Emirates, Kuwait, Qatar, etc.? 2. While I have no problem with immigration, should we not ask ourself if we are not taking too many immigrants. Can we afford them? Can we adequately take care of them? Yes, I want to save as many people as possible, but you also need to realize that you cannot save everyone. And by trying to save everyone, you might very well end up saving no one... So, are we handling this immigrant crisis correctly?
This shit is brilliant
That panty shot shit is too much man LMAO.
Sargon of Akkad is in support of Nationalism and making an effort to radicalise disillusioned young white men? Sargon isn't a Nationalist. I know he doesn't like Islam but there's a lot of reason to dislike Islam if your liberal, like all the social conservatism similar to what you'll find in Christianity.
After the event in Westminster today... I guess you are going to shut your Yankee gob?
6:24 You state that not only white countries are multicultural but a variety of other countries are too, nothing wrong with that statement per se, but then you proceed to give China, India and Peru as examples, all three of those countries are absolute shitholes that I would never want to live in, so why is it wrong for me to not want my country to become like those countries? Peru has a murder rate of 9.6 per 100k people for fucks sake.   Could you list some successful, multiethnic nations that don't have a white majority for me? Even the least horrible country in South America (Chile) has a white/mestizo majority.
Actually you can check where they came from via your video stats! (And honestly, I'm interested in that info as well...)
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fTmBHsecCvY
Regardless of the far right that literally no one of any consequence in Europe cares about anymore!   Don't you as an American or what ever you are dare to tell us about how how to "cope" with immigration and integration.  Sorry but you don't have any right... Your country is a fucking  mess and your culture is vile and we gave nothing to learn from you!   you are not facing an influx of poor primitive highly religious ( backward and violent) thugs on masse and you don't have a social security system on its knees trying to cope with financial meltdown! So don't you dare lecture us!  We aren't on  the far right at all but then  again  you as a Yank wouldn't even know about world politics anyway.  Back off!
I posted this comment on Destiny (Steven Donnell's) channel as well, but thought that I would be more likely to get an answer here, since the content creator would know. Here it is -  I used to watch some guy on YouTube whose name I thought was contrapoints, or maybe something very close to that. He previously had a YouTube channel named some sort of distortion of the word nicotine. I wonder if this is the same guy. I remember that he studied philosophy in college as well. At the time "he" came off as a standard cis male.
These are valid points, but one could argue that Immigrants are voting heavily against the US Constitution, which i would view as very Anti-American.
I just found your channel, and besides the immediate confusion over your wardrobe choices, I find the videos that I've seen are well spoken and funny. Glad that I found your channel.
I found you through Destiny's stream. Love your videos.
Hey this makes me think, maybe the right to doing degenerate things like crossdressing and owning bodypillows should be earned by the individual contributing alot to society as an act of compensations. You dealing with the new wave of nazis counts for example, so stay fabulous, comrade. (sorry for the basically transphobic joke)
Yes, there is major element of fear in white nationalism, but...  Fear leads to anger.  Anger leads to hate.  Hate leads to the dark side.
So you deny the trouble in germany and sweden .
Just came from Destiny's Channel. Great work. subscribed.
You.  I like you.  I'm glad I found someone to subscribe to in order to replace the hole Jontron left in my subscribe list...
yo! how many languages do you speak? edit: btw great video!
I would watch and/or masturbate to this anime.
First of all there are Asian countries that are homogeneous. Like the one you pointed out, China is 91.51% Han Chinese, Japan (of course), both of Koreas, Vietnam, Iraq, Saudi Arabia, Uzbekistan ect all mentioned have 80% or more as their main ethnicity.   The reason that countries like India, Indonesia or Pakistan have many different ethnic groups is because they have not experienced the same history the Europe did (not all European countries are homogeneous even today). Most multicultural European nations collapsed after WW1 like Russia, Austria-Hungary, Germany (with Poland), Great Britain (with Ireland), Ottoman empire (prior WW1). The different ethnic groups in lets say Indonesia are due to lack of centralized government prior to the European invaders these places were and still are divided into small tribes and although somewhat different they are similar too. I don't have experience in linguistics of the region but I know that they belong to Austroasian language group, they are from same geographic position, and they share similar history. It is hard to say how similar or different these languages and dialects are as to say that they are whole different ethnicity. Many European countries have different dialects, but we don't call themselves different ethnic groups. There were plenty of little city states like in Germany and Italy (which one could say mirrors situation in these multicultural countries in Asia), but nationalism has glued each one together into one country. Plenty of these multicultural countries are like old empires of Europe. Iran for example has more Azeris than Azerbaijan has, it is multicultural empire that has yet to fall. India was not a one unified country before Brits came, common enemy and common religion has unified them. I suppose they look at their religion as country building factor it is evident when you see their split and conflict with Pakistan.   To the culture question while its true that culture changes it is also true to say that it stays preserved. Food, folk songs, traditions, traditional clothing, specific words in language can sometimes find themselves to be hundred or even thousand year old and little or none changed. And if we don't take action to venerate it and preserve it, it will die out. Just like Celtic is practically dead in Scotland, Wales, Cornwall, Brittany, England. In Ireland it somewhat survives because the people took action to fight for it and preserve it if they had not done that it would have fallen to foreign domination like in the rest of mentioned. Plenty of languages and old traditions are at danger of disappearing due to pressure of foreign powers and foreign people. History shows (as far as I am aware) that nations and languages do not die out on their own they are smothered by foreign powers and people that start to occupy territories of original people. And yes I see the similarities between history and today.
we need more unique, uh entertaining, channels like yours that provide a reasonable outlook on these controversial issues. glad i found this channel through Destiny!
2:52 I think I just "got" ASMR
hey fam              ur a cuck
I think you might like this video, Nick. I made it yesterday on a whim after watching a Pewdiepie video but truth be told, I came up with the concept earlier, at lunch time: https://youtu.be/v587PFGMr5M
Cool channel, why is the other video about white nationalism banned in germany though? I can't access it. :(
Did you steal my roomates abridged gimmick? Wait, you couldn't have because I didn't upload that episode yet. What editing software do you use?  P.S.  That's twice you were intellectually dishonest in representing The Golden One. Go back to being the pre-SJW Nick. He's inside of you somewhere. Return to your former glory and join the light side once again! Oppose irrationality and evil just like you did with the creationists.
"First and foremost:  You are but a dog, and I am your master." Which basically means I'd like to assure your wellbeing, while expecting only friendship and companionship in return. You can even shit in the middle of my living room while I have company and I'll just apologize to the guests. That's a kinky but sweet proposition if I ever saw one.
When ever a white nationalist wants me to think of my ancestors, i have to grin, because they all had been communists...  #FunFact Iam an anarchist,so i dont even get this whitey thing right xD
Some things you should consider making a video about:  -Jordan Peterson  -Relationship between Dialectical Materialism and Hegelianism, and their place within Enlightenment Modernism -Cult of Kek -The tension between poststructuralist attack on the Subject and the valorisation of the Subject in TransFeminism -Jordan Reza Jorjani and far-right mysticism -Benjamin and Bloch's dual project of the secularization of messianism and the theologization of communism. -why Wagner was a proto-nazi -Lukács and the idea of synthesizing Leftist ethics with Right epistemology  -why do Hindu nationalists love Trump -is the history of capital's transcendence from the material referent of labor a recapitulation of Man's project for transcendence? -where does Heidegger go wrong
I love how much classical music you use in your videos.
First and foremost: You are but a dog, and I am your master. Second, am I the only one to notice the Golden One straight up copied that line from SKYRIM??? (It's a random line said by Thalmor Wizards and Justicars during combat!) There's no way this is a coincidence - comrade hbomb already brought to light thegoldenone's obsession with fantasy, so the only logical conclusion is the guy can't even make up his own pejorative "epic lines!" What's next altrights? Europe belongs to the Nor... uhmm, whites? (that's assuming some of you have enough braincells to replace the words in a fictional slogan...) Third, this is the first video of yours that I watched contra, (literally just learned about you from hbomberguy's livestream tonight) but you've just earned yourself another commie subscriber! Great video!
I'm pretty sure whiteness(and protowhiteness like xtiandom and europa) and capitalism are what has destroyed and is destroying Norse culture. Like the subjugation and assimilation of Norse culture into a larger global system is not the fault of international migrants but rather global capitalists and the project of white christian Europe which actively suppresses and subjugates people. White is not a culture it is a position in a socio-economic hierarchy that may subjugate culture but in doing so robs it of its autonomy and freedom.
Damn it Contra, you're too damn hot!!
why is this recommended I mean I like traps but....
we should focus on getting rid of the alt right. but as a center rightist with some notable left leaning beliefs we should recognize some dangers of mass immigration. I don't care if people want to move around freely but instead of just importing people (muslims from the middle east) with a radically different culture we should instead focus on making these war torn countries better. this has nothing to do with race for me. we should look to the causes of what caused middle east countries to collapse. the rise of sharia law dictators, western intervention witch killed these dictators and created a power vaccum creating isis. To not recognize some of the problems that europe is facing, in favor of just importing more refuggees because it is the nice thing to do will not make things better for anyone immigrants included. even Angela Merkel pro eu, and pro immigration Chancellor of Germany has said that Europe should begin taking steps to to reduce mass immigration.
2:00  hmm yeah  2:04   oh my  *instantly subscribed*  i am your fan
Okay, this was my first ContraPoints video and I have to ask: Is it weird that I have a boner right now?
2:16 I'll gonna swipe *reich* to that!
I have seen the face of God
*Alex Sorkin*
逼装得不错…
Great video as usual (love the boots and makeup btw).  I would however argue with you about America being the most multicutural country in the world.  Benin for exemple is about the size of Illinois. Over 50 languages are spoken. Catholics make 27.1% of the population, muslims 24.4%, 17.3% follow Vodoun, 10.4% are protestants, other traditional religions followers 6%, other Christians 5.3%. There are dozens of different ethnic groups.  What's more, your "America has a lot to teach Europe" comment is kind of grating because most European countries have known immigration for centuries and thrive because of it.
Why is a nation of only one "race" of people bad? Is it under the assumption that it causes prejudice? What if that country was prejudice but they as a country caused no harm to the world. Is that necessarily bad. My question is if someone has a "wrong" thought but doesn't act on it are they persay wrong or bad? this stems from my dislike of thought policing which the far left seems to be advocating for. the alt right seems to be bad too. To much of anything is a poison.
yay cameos!
Also excellent job on the massive boost in production quality, you've come a long way.
I just got a boner.
Fuck your videos confuse my penis.
How is Japan an ethnostate [that you should denounce]?  [edit]
lol simply great creative intelligent video. Another deep fear of that kind of mindset that of course not all 'shite' people have is the fear of darkness. Cause when you look at their solar phallic myths going all the way back to the Aryans, the theme is that 'darkness' is evil and 'lightness' is good, and they willy nilly include dark skin. So the 'FEAR' is also the being engulfed by their dreaded dark bogeyman and having their wavering light put out. THIS is why the humanitarian crisis now, which is EVEN on mainstream news, all the people we see suffering, starving, including babies all have dark skin!! If this were white people, can you imagine the uproar?
your german really is on point d(∀)
If you guys haven't you should check out Rex Moa's videos on this subject
HBomberguy sent me here, and I'm glad he did. Great video. I've subscribed.
immediately subscribed to you, my queer antifa kin. thankyou for this blessed gift, based contrapoints xx
>you're not entitled to demand that entire culture freeze in it's tracks  Cultures don't need migrations to change and evolve. Of course if you flood a country like Germany with millions of men from an entirely alien civilization it will have an impact on the host culture, one of the effects for instance will be a disruption of sex ratio towards the male side which is most likely going to result in much more masculine, politically radicalised and violent society in the nearest future. It doesn't mean though that if germany is spared this millions big flood of third world people, then it will literally remain the same yodelling and dancing polkas for eternity.
I love your videos. Plz take down someone more high-profile, like Ben Shapiro, instead of Milo and all these YouTube Anti-SJW clowns
This was fantastic! Fucking hilarious, very well made and intelligent to boot!  You got a new fan.
Culture, like language, needs change. If it ever stops changing it dies.
Did you know you have a doppelganger out there? They go by the name *Riley J Dennis*.
"Maximum Cuckoldry" sounds like a great name for a band. X3
"These people are just trolling. It does not reflect reality." So, whites are allowed to have their ethnostate? "Of course not. That's not empirical, go away, shitlord. Just look at Peru, they're so mixed that nobody is a majority there! isn't it great? Will you stop winning now, right wingers?!"
6:12  OK, this is going to a long one.  First off, I'd like to preface this by saying that I think you are an incredibly smart and funny individual, and this isn't just some roundabout way of me saying that I'm unsubscribing (which I'm not). And most of the time, I do agree with you on things such as identity politics and the like. However, I have to slightly disagree with you regarding whether or not Israel should be an ethnostate or not.   I say slightly because while I don't think that Israel should be 100% composed of Jews, and while I certainly disagree with many of Israels policies (and have a strong resentment of Netanyahu), I still think that Israel should be a Jewish state, in the sense that Israel is a country that Jews can call their own.   Now keep in mind that I am a Jewish New York liberal who is strongly in favor of a two-state solution. And since I don't have all day to write a book-length dissertation about Israel, Zionism, Palestine, I'm going to keep this as short as I can. So I'll just end this by saying two things: That I believe that Jews should have a nation to call their own, and that I'd love to see your views on the Israeli-Palestinian conflict.  (PS. Sorry if this seems disjointed and rambling, I'm coming off a hangover)
The US is not the most multicultural country in the world. That is all.
After watching a ContraPoints video it's often difficult to decide in which way I am more confused; politically or sexually. All I can say for certain is that it was an excellent video.
First and foremost: Was that Richard Cucklan I heard in the comments part? Amazing! :D
That commenter at 5:49 and I had an argument in the comments section of a BPS video. He thinks that white people and black people aren't even related and that the races should be separate bc a biracial person couldn't possibly have a connection to the country they're raised in. Good thing I didn't tell him I was a biracial American nationalist XD XD XD.
I don't agree with a lot of things you said. But I'm not interested in discussing your points right now. I just want to say this is the first time I see an SJW with neurons in his brain and real arguments, statistics and facts to support logical claims. I'm against the left but I absolutely despise the alt-right which uses the same strategy of labels, immature whining and violence than most SJWs.
this was amazing
Your content is brilliant dude, keep it up!!  I have a quick question: I'm a big fan of channels like your own and Hbomberguy, but on the other hand, i also enjoy the content produced by more 'right wing' channels such as Saargon of Akkad and Shoe0nhead.  Now, any chance both sides could together in a debate? It would be extremely interesting to see what conversations could be encouraged by bringing such drastically thinking intellectuals together.
HBOMBAAAA!!!!
why does marilyn  manson think showing me pictures of popstars will make me want my country to become more like places that are objectively worse to live in?
Wow, this was a stupid video. Congratulations on attempting humor. Boy, white genocide is such a funny subject, huh? I bet you'll have 'em more convinced than ever.
Hello Dear.  I just wanted to tell you that I just finished watching all of your uploaded videos and that I love you and them... even if you are an apologist for an intrinsically racist globalist economy.  Too bad my broke commie ass can't deal with the pressures of society long enough to comfortably throw capital your way.  Oh well, keep supplying with song-and-dance slave, and I'll keep watching.  That is, until you say something to piss me off and I unsub.  <3
I don't agree with you one things. But are you a trap or something. My penis is confused?
Aaaaaaaand subscribed.
I AM BLACK, EDUCATED WOMAN, SICK OF  TRUMP RANTING AND DESTROYING OUR COUNTRY , THE WAY HITLER RANTED AND DESTROYED GERMANY.  I ENJOYED YOUR VIDEO PAYING HOMAGE TO THE DIASPORA WHICH IS AMERICA.  THE NOTATION REGARDING SLAVERY WAS NEEDED AS I HAVE HAD WHITE PEOPLE, IN IGNORANCE YELL "GO BACK TO AFRICA" FOR NO REASON OTHER THAN I HAPPENED TO BE IN A SUPERMARKET IN A PREDOMINANTLY WHITE NEIGHBORHOOD,  THIS ELDERLY WHITE LADY GOT IN FRONT OF ME... I SAID NOTHING, YET SHE HURLD EXPLETIVES AT ME OUT OF NO WHERE.  I WAS RAISED TO RESPECT ELDERS,  REGARDLESS OF RACE,  YET I WANTED TO PUNCH HER LIGHTS OUT.  TRUMP IS TURNING THIS COUNTRY BACK TO JIM CROW ON STEROIDS, WITH JEFF KKK SESSIONS LEADING THE CONFEDERATE CHARGE.
Could you make a full ASMR video in this Nazi dominatrix uniform? Pretty please? I'll be sooo happy.
You sir, are my favorite youtuber, nay, my favorite person! "Come here, Fritz. Sk sk sk sk sk." - i lolled myself to near death ^_^. Keep up the great work!
>Natural changing of cultures over time is the same as letting thousands of invaders who drastically change your culture and genetic make up.   >Black lives matter doesn't advocate a black ethno-state (except for the ones that promote segregration) which means that Europe is not allowed to remain white   Contra basically wants Europe to become like america. He thinks importing MILLIONS of refugees every year into single countries is going to "improve"  these nations, when the opposite is true evidently.   Now, what about the natives? Do they not have a RIGHT to control their own fucking cultural evolution? Why do they get no say in this drastic change that most of them don't even want? Why MUST this happen? There is no reason.   Historically, we always know France is French. Germany is German. The key cultural makeup of these nations has always existed throughout most of history, evolution naturally takes place as new innovations take place and new ideas come in. But the traditions and common historic identity are always preserved and evolve, so in a sense it IS a thousand year reich.   This is exactly what the alt-right is preserving. The native lands of Europeans are a right to us, foreigners absolutely have no right to these lands or our history or culture. It's as simple as that.   Now, with the fact that race mixing propaganda and multiculti bullshit is being promoted in these countries, does he really think this is positive? Does he really think blacks fucking and having kids with German women is a good thing? I mean, making mongrel races ONLY results from invasion or in America's case extreme diversity and it never is a positive thing.   All of this propaganda for racemixing, to defile our people with foreign blood and to create a mongrel race. I think you should do some research on the true agenda of the EU elite which is an alliance of leftists, capitalists and zionist supremacists. Richard Kalergi (godfather of the EU) published a plan for a united Europe and the ethnocide of native Europeans by introducing mass immigration and creating mongrel races that are easier to control. Chaos in Europe = profit for these criminal elite.    The agenda is so easy to see through, and you think this is positive. You think millions of immigrants from the third world who have no knowledge or interest in the culture of the nation they arrive to (only the benefits) are going to benefit us in ANY WAY.   It really is disgusting, how we actually have to ARGUE for the native right of Europeans to exist as a homogeneous people native to their own fucking lands with their own customs and traditions instead of being forced to assimilate these fucking savages that do not care for our history or culture.   Nor do they have the right to be there. Refugees are fine, they can stay as that is simply human compassion. But the fact is most of these fuckers are economic migrants, not refugees. Most of them are from north Africa and sub-saharan africa, not even the middle east! Most are men above the age of 20. This is NOT a refugee crisis.   And if this was a refugee crisis, why is there absolutely no plan for when these people will be able to return to their homes and live in peace again? Why is there so much race mixing propaganda and cultural appropriation going on? (There are ads literally depicting blacks and other races in traditional Swedish get up for advertisement of a Swedish festival). It's seriously disgusting, they want to wipe us off of the face of the planet, they want to destroy our nations and breed us the fuck out. Only then will their ultimate goal of globalism actually happen, and you're just another puppet without even realizing. Your points are so out of touch with reality it almost makes me vomit.   Here's a nice comment I found from my fellow nationalists, and it's exactly what I'm trying to get across.   "You conflate the natural changing of cultures over time with the situation that's happening now... Namely, massive waves of unrelenting immigration from people that statistically commit more rape and violent crime and will never assimilate into our host cultures.   You also think that America belongs to everyone, that there were never standards regarding where we would accept immigrants from and under what conditions.   You assume that anyone fleeing a shitty situation in a shithole country has the RIGHT to move here and we have the moral obligation to take them in. We don't.   In fact, a governments only job is to protect its own people. So tell me this, if white people still make up a majority of Americans, why would the majority vote for leaders that want to import millions of 3rd worlders into our country to vote against our own interests?   You can shit on the idea of an ethnostate all day, but you have yet to put forth a convincing argument as to why white people would want to become a minority, in their OWN HISTORICAL NATIVE LANDS, or what sort of benefit  we receive from letting millions of immigrants pour in through our borders year after year."  China is not "multicultural" in the sense of the western world. There is a ruling people and culture, the Hans chinese make 90% of the population. This is not multiculturalism. Multiculturalism is when you have different cultures in the mainstream culture of this nation contributing whatever they have. Celebrating ones own culture in small communities in China does not make that multiculturalism.   Peru is ethnically diverse because of European invasion, see that, *invasion*? That's why there are people like mestizos, castizos etc. South America is also one of the worst places to fucking live in, funny how multiculturalism and multiracialism ALWAYS correlates with a shitty mixed economic system and shit living standards, huh?   So why would we want European nations  to become like Peru or America or any other nation...? EUROPE IS EUROPE, and it should stay that way. Funnily enough, there's already a debunking video to this. Hilarious. But you can keep convincing your alt-left audience that you guys are on the right side of history (hint, you aren't). You people are just witnessing the fall of your ideology upon itself, and you're desperately trying to revive it through small "new" arguments that haven't really had the light shed on them, but are easily debunked. Oh and your Sweden statistics have been debunked too. The rape hasn't drastically increased because of stricter definition, it's like you guys just created your own fucking reality. Wake the fuck up. It isn't workiiing.   Indeed, Skyrim is for the Nords.   If this is what you call convincing....you're going to make more of us natsees. Thank you, sincerely.
some call it deep state, some call it having an unpopular opinion.
why are you scared of ethno-nationalism?
Your points are valid, but the shame and self-loathing of many WITHIN Western culture as a result of leftist ideology are a cause for concern. You make a fair point about how a culture can survive by being destroyed from without, I'm not convinced it can survive being destroyed from within.
music and art isn't an argument to allow violent shitheaps that hate the west into it
you can prevent culture changing for the worse
There's nothing wrong with white nationalism.
Well in the brief history of our present world only one nations culture has survived Muslim invasion so fearing Muslims is justifiable, rest it's called national socialism the white nationalist can go to stormfront
Was that video about white nationalism deleted? I cannot find it.
Hbomb and Lindsay Ellis :)) The first two sounds awesome too and their channels looks awesome. Also YASSSS Shaun and Jen
So lets see. You are degenrate tranny that represents globalism and a sick society that will implode one way or the other.  Either by the European immune system represented by nationalist or by thirdworlders that want you dead. Degenracy death by provocation.   You arguments in this video are weak, based on strawmen,  white guilt,  and obvious lies. For example  Blacks didn't intermix with whites, to such degree that it would watter down their racial genetics, which you so gladly celebrate.  Yeah black vibe and style (with European means) really make up for black on white crimes, mass rapes etc.  You are basically the lost  selfdestructive selfrighteous white neomarxist-lib that argues for the degenration and thirdworldisation of the west.  Killing people and cultures to welcome massrapes, Islam,  a rootless consumer state without any true values beyond    platitudes och 1984 laws to silence anyone in opposition.   Im from Europe and its no game here. Strength and will will create the order we wish.  A white Europe is a given and natural.  Peru is poor as hell and divided in many ways, not a multiracial heaven. ..  If multiculturalism is natural,  why do the elite has to force it upon us, and say it has always been like this.😑  Now , jump in zee oven. You make me sick. Infantile libs will probably love you.😷
6:25 "Anal people"  lmao
You make some halfway decent points, MUCH better than all of your contemporaries, so credit where it's due.   However, you seem to conflate the natural changing of cultures over time with the situation that's happening now... Namely, massive waves of unrelenting immigration from people that statistically commit more rape and violent crime and will never assimilate into our host cultures.   You seem to also think that America belongs to everyone, that there were never standards regarding where we would accept immigrants from and under what conditions.   You also seem to assume that anyone fleeing a shitty situation in a shithole country has the RIGHT to move here and we have the moral obligation to take them in. We don't.   In fact, a governments only job is to protect its own people. So tell me this, if white people still make up a majority of Americans, why would the majority vote for leaders that want to import millions of 3rd worlders into our country to vote against our own interests?   You can shit on the idea of an ethnostate all day, but you have yet put forth a convincing argument as to why white people would want to become a minority, or what sort of benefit to we recieve from letting millions of immigrants pour in through our borders year afer year.
The left really is in a different universe at this point. The rise of rape rates in Sweden can't be explained merely by higher reporting. The rise coincides precisely with increased Islamic immigration. It didn't remotely have this problem beforehand.  Yes, Peru is quite diverse. I don't see why you'd want to make our argument for us.  You're against Japan remaining entirely Japanese? Why? You haven't explained why there is some moral imperative to change that.
lmao fokin phaggot commit sodoku
This video was paid for by George Soros..
The amount of work herein inspires awe.
Ethnic nationalism is inevitable and there is nothing illegitimate about ethnic nationalism.  Edit: Jesus, is this the best that the left can muster?  Why should Europe become less European?  Why should Europeans support an immigration policy that dooms them into becoming an ethnic minority in their own ancestral homeland?  Yes, a violent conflict is inevitable and I look forward to it.
Sargon, AmazingAtheist, Bearing, ArmouredSkeptic, Dave Rubin, Lauren Southern, Steven Crowder, Trae Crowder, Meryl Streep and you: you're all part of the "Entertainment Community" ... but you're actually entertaining ... and talented. Instead of just whining like a little bitch. I'd put you a cut above. Your Anti-SJW mirror is Sye Ten Atheist... actually talented, and sometimes entertaining.
I doubt I'll agree w/you on a lot, but this is a pretty good video. You make some good points. I like the bit about "existential dread" of the white nationalists.
it's not that white nationalists can't be convinced, it's that their world view is a result of their value system, not anything empirical (neither is ours, btw) which is why you need to smash and punch them if you want to get anywhere.
happy I found your channel
Their movement will die out.
I recognised H Bomberguy's voice right away and it doesn't surprise me that he'd be involved in a collaborative video about the alt-right, but holy crap, Lindsay Ellis - I was not expecting that!  She doesn't really talk about politics and social issues on her channel much (though I think her feminism is strongly implied), but anyone who wants thoughtful analysis about TV and movies should check her channel out, she''s definitely in my Top 5 list of favourite YouTubers and I don't even think of myself as a film geek.
i didnt know i needed this channel in my life so bad but 2 minutes in it's the most natural thing
I love how that guy specifically brought up Old Norse, a language that has minimal differences with modern Icelandic.
Pardon my manners, but you are incredibly hot. That's all I've got to say. Also, good video...
>cultures have changed in the past so it's stupid oppose millions and millions of Muslims and Africans coming to Europe in a very short space of time  Also, "it might be difficult for countries HAVING to deal with a lot of ethnic diversity for the first time". Why do we HAVE to deal with it? Why does Europeans HAVE to accept this?
So white ethnicity/culture will not be destroyed entirely as there will always be some trace left therefore all forms of harm administered to it are okay??? That makes no sense whatsoever.  And the immigrants you showed are not fleeing danger as they are fleeing from Turkey and other other countries where they do face no serious threats (no country is entirely safe, you can get killed in Iceland to). They are heading from a place of relative safety to where ever he most money is most notably in terms of social security. It is no coincidence that the ones that can make it are not fleeing towards countries with the most familiar climate, language or culture to them but instead flee to the wealthiest countries they can reach. If the USA was easier to reach the in-pour would be massive.  The only means the white-ethnic states/peoples have to defend themselves is to control the borders and to prosecute any form of help to illegals including employment. The fact that people on the left do not want to allow self preservation is an act of hostility in itself which warrants a hostile defense against their treacherous ilk. The left has no sense of loyalty and no love for their own kind. This is why the left is self-hating and self-destructive. If the left wants to be eradicated they can do it on their own, they have no right to drag others who are not affected by their insanity into their demise.
Should I be calling you "he" or "she"? Didn't want to get it wrong so thought I'd ask first.
More Cowbell! !!
"china is multi ethnic"  ~92% han chinese you sure about that buddy?
"Intellectually dishonest"  Wah?
I'm getting really curious what the alt-right definition of "argument" is, since apparently they're much rarer than I thought.
do you think japans proposed homogeny is overrated?
to be honest the "our culture is under threat!!" thing annoys the hell out of me because i'm irish, and our culture *did* nearly get destroyed. they're complaining about cultural marxism, but they've no idea what the reality of culture being taken away is--they have it in a museum, but a lot of irish culture is genuinely, irreversibly lost due to a program of destruction and a lack of primary documents. a lot of white nationalists just can't come up with a genuine example of culture being destroyed, but with british colonialism you can map it out. they're horrified no one's speaking old norse--but irish schoolchildren wore a slate around their neck showing how much english they knew. and when you look at how american-irish types reframe this as reverse racism it makes your blood boil because they don't know and they don't have to live with the consequences.  (not saying there aren't irish white nationalist/racist wankers, cause there are, but.. you know.)
Hey, I just found your channel, I really like your videos and I was just wondering what pronouns you use? Big fan, love your outfit BTW
Nostalgia Chick, I always knew you were one of the good ones...
European culture, ideas and politics dominate much of the world. European culture isn't dying. Don't worry so much. Maybe go outside. Get some fresh air guys. Then come back and put your feet up. Listen to some Lionel Richie while sipping on the good stuff. Treat yourself better. You're worth it people.
You mentioned HBomberguy in a video.... Commulists Unite! I fucking love your face off.
Can someone please explain why all these uber-hetero, so-called alpha-males are always so concerned with the sex lives  . . . and members . . . of other men?
I never got the whole "odin norse thing" I'm a blond hair blue eyed cis male that has viking blood in me but as i recall history wasnt it other WHITES from europe that wiped out the viking way of life? The ango saxons for example was a society that had viking roots and values but it was other white Christians that told them odin was a false god and converted them all to Christianity and killed the rest that wouldnt conform.  I always find it weird when they skip that little bit of history. and i find the whole norse christian hail odin white power thing weird when that society was wiped out by in fact other white Christians.
I'm just going to say a thing about the video: damn, I liked your Ilsa, the Shewolf of the SJW costume.
Subbed, Untermensch
I LOVE YOU
Jesus what kind of liberal echo chamber have I wandered into.
The alt right are cucks.
Ok, before I tackle several of the points where I disagree let me state this: _All nationalism outside the cultural sphere is not constructive, and ''white nationalism'' is a moronic term because there is no such thing as a white nation._  You are white, and I am white(ish) but we are not the same nationality. Not to mention that there is no such thing as a ''brown'' phenotype as Arabs, Turks and 3/4 of Hindus are white. On the same point, there is no such thing as a ''black'' nationality, as Black Americans are not Africans and don't belong to the same culture group as any Black African nation. (also, as stated previously, many Africans are White)  Now, on the question of _''Do people have the right to have a nation state?''_ ... Yes, yes they do. There is the right of the domestic population to self govern and to create their own rules and social contracts. They have the right to not let someone in and to kick the citizens of other nations out. They can allow someone to live in their country and even become a citizen if that person is willing to abide by the laws of the land he is in.  On the problem of refugees we have created global laws that compel States to assist refugees in need, yet that doesn't mean integrating them in their own countries, nor has anything to do with economic migrants that can be barred, *just because*.  The second statement that _''Migrants don't commit the disproportionate amount of crime''_ is also false. In the video by *Shaun and Jen* he is using the term refugee and migrant interchangeably even though they are not the same thing. Refugees from Syria don't commit disproportionate amount of crime and in the cases of Greece, Turkey and Romania they actually commit less crime than the domestic population.  Migrants are a whole different story. Migrants consist of mostly men aged 20-30 coming from Pakistan, Afghanistan and some times East Africa. They are poor, they move in large groups and by the time they come to Germany they are more or less mad. Poor young men in large groups commit disproportionate amount of crime anywhere, at any time, on any meridian. In Germany it is the same case with Slavic, Arabic or Persian migrants, they commit about 3x as much crime as the domestic population.  _''If you don't integrate young men into the village, they will come back and burn it.''_ In this case the institutions of many EU countries don't have the capacity to integrate the migrants, thus crime.   On the question of Sweden. It is both the rape reporting capital of the world and the rape capital of the world (Actually, on that point it is 3rd worldwide). When we compare Sweden we are not comparing it to South Africa and Botswana, we are comparing it to Norway and Denmark who have similar reporting levels where Sweden has 3x more rape cases per 100k people than Norway and 10x as much as Denmark. Even if we account for all possibilities the occurrence of Rape in Sweden is, at least, 50% more common and most of those rapes are committed by people not born in Sweden.  Last. The picture you had at 10:15 is narrated out of any context. That is the picture of the Hungarian/Serbian border and the barbed wire is there to prevent smugglers from Serbia bringing cigarettes to Hungary and the EU. The children in this photo are not running from neither death not hunger nor anything similar. This photo is probably taken in summer of 2015. which means that I am less than 1km away from this place at the time, in a refugee camp, with food, clothes, doctors and shelter for more than 2000 people. The photo is taken for effect, there is no immediate reason for those children to stay on that fence.  Sorry for the wall of text, I liked your video.  Praise Kek! 555333
oh please these alt right idiots just worry about getting white girls "stolen" from them by minorities
Incidentally, on Japan - they allow people to become Japanese, regardless of ethnic origin. It's a difficult immigration process, but tons of people do it every year. However, since it IS so hard to immigrate and Japan is having a population crisis, there's a huge movement now to loosen the immigration policy - so as to allow more immigrants in, thereby hopefully making more babies and thereby decreasing the average age.  Also, the idea of Japan as having ALWAYS been a state that is difficult/impossible to immigrate into is ahistorical. In fact, in the VERY FIRST SENTENCE of 日本婦人論, an 1885 text on Japanese women written by one of Japan's most well respected historical intellectuals, Fukuzawa Yukichi argued that foreign bodies should be specifically ENCOURAGED to immigrate and marry national Japanese women in order to increase the number of mixed-race children in Japan, and thereby (since he was a big eugenicist - sadly this was the intellectual environment of this time period), make the country stronger. This was not an uncommon belief at the time and you can find it reflected in countless other texts by countless other public intellectuals (and individuals publishing in journals).  (Japan was also extremely open to immigration throughout most of its history as well. In the pre-Edo, you even saw European religious groups owning and controlling land, for example. This changed in the Edo [1600-1868] and then again in the late interwar [mid-late 1930's], with a recent boom again among hypernationalist internet users today. Outside of those pockets, however, Japan has traditionally been relatively open to immigration - and it amuses me to no end to see insane alt-righters referring to it as an ethnostate success story)
why is hbomberguy reading the comments?
We are being invaded by foreigners who breed like rabbits, don't speak our language, and their religion/culture conflicts with ours. If they aren't stopped they will destroy everything we hold dear! That was said about the Irish, the Italians, the Eastern Europeans, Mexicans, and now Muslims. History repeats itself huh?
holy shit, you're good. have a like. i'll keep an eye on you.
I love Ur fascism because of its contradictions. Yes, white culture is the greatest thing humanity has ever created, and it's so strong, but it's in danger of flimsy being destroyed.
HITLUH was too moderate   What a voice.  Also, you look unsettlingly excellent in that black number.
PLEASE WATCH. White women beaten kidnapped an rape in France ,please share  https://youtu.be/Rz3Ql3ehE0c  PLEASE SHARE !!!!
This video is pretty dumb IMO, you raise some dumb points For example the whole thing about "Black people maintained their culture anyways" when just 30 seconds before you said " they changed their religion, their language, prohibited their drums" literally everything changed but it's still the culture they had before? how? their ancient culture disappeared, they created a new one Also his whole mindset comes from the idea that "reverting multi-culti societies back to white societies is hard", and so what? if it's the right thing to do we should do it, plus it's also pretty hard to have muslims and other minorities commiting crimes and raping your people 24/7, and maybe i'm wrong (i have short term memory problems) but i think he conveniently ignored all the crime statistics among minorities, also that whole part about "building fences around children trying to escape war", yeah nice cherrypicking, children my ass, more than half of refugees in certain countries were men above the age of 20, and even if they were children, is this guy saying it is moral to force the population of a country who cannot sustain them to give them asylum? like in Sweden? Sweden has to build a new stockholm to solve the housing crisis, and that was BEFORE they took in thousands upon thousands of refugees. Anyways, you are entitled to your viewpoint i guess, but consider one last thing, the tolerance that allows you to dress like that, and be who you are,(which i think is perfectly fine btw, i don't have a problem with that), exists in our culture, the muslims refugees in Sweden and Germany and Britain do not feel the same way. I'm not really sure if you are gay or something else, but i recommend this video for you guys: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vTVtYvVwUXg
Maximum cuckoldry.
Ma mans Contra getting the Triple AAA cameos
I needed to hear you so bad-I been thinking the same things and you brought me the numbers-thanks-
if this is what you think will win, then this may be even easier than we thought.
Damn I was wondering where was your video about white nationalism ... I can't watch it in my country :/ (France, fuck Voltaire I guess) ... well Tor here I come to watch a video of contrapoints ...   edit : well it is banned from sweden too apparently ... and USA what he fuck ... is the video still up ?   re-edit : well it is up fro Romania at least ...
"People" like you should not be allowed to exist. Thankfully, you will most likely not breed and produce fertile offspring.
Great stuff Contra.
Oh Magoo, you've done it again. :) But for real though, great video as usual, and good plug for Shaun and Jen. I love that channel. And this one.
Israel isn't an ethnostate.  My uncle is from Switzerland and Catholic.  He is an Israeli citizen.  He became an Israeli citizen by getting a job and a visa, and living there for 5 years...like in most countries.
Race =/= ethnicity. I am white but also hispanic latino and my culture is latina, machismo, racismo, homofobia, español and all that shit included. I have nothing to do with those "european white nations" except have a little bit of ancestry and mostly spanish anyway, so maybe there is a little bit of color there that my family doesn´t know about. I have nothing to do with that shit they are spewing because I couldn´t even talk my first language with them and much less anyone in the white part of my family because none of them speaks English.
I'm not Alt right but certainly see one glaringly obvious reason for it's emergence:  The regressive left's (not to be confused with Liberals) incessant attack on the freedom of speech and white men. SJW's might even have some potentially valid qualms, but censoring speech and creating a "safe space" is not tactful when attempting to win a debate of ideas.
israel isnt even an ethno state. 20% of israel is arab muslim, then amongst the jews you have white jews (Ashkenazis), middle eastern and north african jews (mizrahi and Sephardic), along with black Ethiopian jews. and about japan, according to research 1/9 japanese kids are mixed. wtf are these idiots even talking about?
Why don't these people spend their time learning Old Norse and making youtube videos on Old Norse? Oh wait, that would actually take effort.
omg i love you, i'm horrified I didn't find ur channel sooner
I agree with your point that cultural change is inevitable, but you seem to underestimate our capacity to influence these changes. Just imagine if the United States had never allowed mass immigration since its foundation. What would American culture look like today? It would probably have a much stronger WASP element to this day. What if slavery had been abolished much earlier, and the slave traffic had been much smaller? Probably African-American influences would have been lower. And even if you think both scenarios are unlikely, they are nevertheless possible.  Next, I agree with you that multi-ethnic societies are feasible - and maybe even inevitable for successful societies -, although a bit unstable. And there are many historical examples that show that multi-ethnic societies can thrive (e.g. Imperial Rome, US since 1850, Ptolemaic Egypt).  However, the same does not apply to multi-cultural societies. In fact, whenever significantly different cultures lived under a same government, secession and sometimes civil war followed. Especially if cultural differences fall along ethnic lines. And even more strongly if cultural differences include religious differences.  Do you need examples? Look at the disintegration of Yugoslavia (specially the Bosnian war), the conflicts between India and Pakistan, the fall of the Austro-Hungarian Empire, the  Lebanese Civil War, etc.  Multi-cultural societies cannot last unless they rapidly evolve toward "unicultural" societies. If a significant portion of the population is part of a religion that, say, consider homosexuality a crime punishable by death, or that treat women like second-class citizens or even as property, while the rest of the society disagrees with that, how can a nation remain stable an united? Especially if such differences in values are backed by religion, because in this case there is no way to argue towards a consensus: you are dealing with dogma.  I think this is the threat many in the alt-right or similar movements have noticed. More than pro-white, they against the gradual corrosion of Western values, be it by Muslims, Jews, or even Whites themselves.
Contra Points: THOMAS JEFFERSON DID NOT RAPE HIS SLAVES. THAT IS A LIE that keeps getting thrown around by the uninformed. There was a genetic testing of the slaves that showed DNA from the Jefferson family, but it was most likely from Thomas' other relatives. I think this lie keeps getting perpetuated because it is salacious and people like sexy scandals and because there are people who want to tear down our Founding Fathers. Stop spreading this lie.
ContraPoints, I enjoyed the video, but disagree with a few points you made.  American Culture- Culture changes, this is a fact. We don't have the thriving culture of Ancient Egypt around anymore. Or for that matter the culture of Mesopotamia, Norse, Ancient Greek, Babylonian, etc.. either. Cultures change, grow, shrink, disappear, etc... Cultures absorb certain practices of other cultures, we see that all the time. Some cultures supplant other cultures and replace it as the dominant culture. Arguing for freezing the culture is not possible, it will change whether you like it or not. Might as well fight the ocean. However.  What makes America Culture is the cultural belief in individualism and the constitutionalism. As I can see with your outfits, you love expressing yourself as an individual, as is your right. But what you seem to fail to recognize is that not everyone believes you should have that right. Not everyone believes in individuality. Not everyone believes in Freedom of Speech. Even American citizens who have lived here for generations are arguing today for the abolition of Freedom of Speech through Hate Speech laws. Culturally, the United States is drifting away from Individualism which you dearly value.  And if these people got into power, they would enact authoritarian laws. I really enjoy using my Freedom of Speech. But if people are immigrating to our country that do not respect our laws and our culture of individualism (ie Sharia practicing Muslims), it is putting my freedoms in jeopardy. I don't care about the race part. I'm worried about your freedoms and mine.  The Alt Right might not be expressing their concern in speech you find palatable, but their is truth behind their concerns. Put aside the race issue. The bigger issue is the supplanting of culture. America has weathered over 250 years of immigrants and come out just fine because the people who wanted to immigrate here WANTED to be AMERICAN. People who want to be American and respect Individualism are all welcome in my book. It's the immigrants who do not respect our values as American first should be barred from entry. Also, assimilation takes time. People need to be allowed to adjust to our society and understand our culture. We cannot allow hordes of people in and expect them all to suddenly transform into ideal citizens as soon as they touch the soil. And the majority of immigrants coming here vote Democrat because the Democrats hand out free welfare like there is no tomorrow. The Regressives in both parties have been eating away at our liberties by trading ephemeral welfare checks for liberty. A debtor is the slave of the lender. How can I expect American culture and the laws to be upheld when people are willingly selling their vote for more benefits? And if enough people get onto welfare and suck the government teat, their voting block can be used as cudgel to bludgeon middleclass. How can you expect American Individualism to survive when your politicians are actively trying to destroy it, consciously or unconsciously. Borders. Language. Culture. These three things need to be defended.  I need no further proof than the Wiki Leaks emails where Hillary Clinton says that she wants open borders to know that the progressive and neocon/neolib politicians are actively trying to destroy this country, subvert its laws and culture in order to line their pockets.   You are wrong for the right reasons. The Alt is right for the wrong reasons.
I don't agree with everything you say but my god I love you. You are what YouTube needs right now.
Day of the rope can't come soon enough.
_"I condemn the ethnostate idea wherever it exists."_  Good job we don't need the permission of a deranged tranny to secure our future then
Subscribed!
Mostly correct.  However there is no denying the correlation of the increase of rape and murder with the influx of refuges into Sweden.  And right wing Muslims are a threat because of Sharia law.  This makes them different from other groups.  This is why even many moderate Muslims want to slow down the influx of Muslim refugees.
CALL ALT RACISTS WHAT THEY ARE... ALT RACISTS.
ALT RACISTS WILL DESTROY AMERICONS.
Thanks for sharing your perspective, well argued and I agree with some of your points.
really funny video.... but "rape REPORTING capital of the world"? I thought we where supposed to believe any rape accusation as fact and ignore trial and jump right to execution?
The other day some alt-right troll told me I'm an existential threat to humanity, must be doing something right.
Subscribed, I'm so glad to find yet another great social justice channel.
Question for white nationalists: why is fascism preferable to Marxism? :/
I love you so much its become a problem
holy shit this is going to be on cringe compilations
I like the comment readings, nice job!
I understand how rape reports work in Sweden, but notice how they never give us numbers on how many rapes are commited by migrants. I would like to see an actual report on how many rapes are commited by whom for once.
1) Excellent video and overall great selfaware content tailored to the boundaries of who it's going to address, with educational context for normal people on the side. 2) You're spellbindingly pretty, congratulations on your face.
Yassss Sis!  That Nazi dominatrix getup was everything!!! Oh btw the central thesis of your argument is what Dr. Cress Weisling has said for decades; whites are afraid of genetic annihilation!
You have exquisite legs :D
gay
... *blinks* ... But of course. What else would one expect a philosophy scholar with a master's degree to do with their knowledge in 2017?  Quite ingenious, actually! Your vids have proven quite informative for me. I can only imagine how much work goes into production and editing.   You remind me of one of my favorite CS Lewis quotes: "Good philosophy exists, if for no other reason, than that bad philosophy must be answered."  Thanks for the hard work, contrapoints!
Bitch, /polgbt/ rulers. Praise Kek.
The description is wrong, it should read "Subhuman filth".
Well done
You are the greatest thing I have ever seen. Thank you.
10:10 I would encourage you to check out heavy metal. Amazing music.
Wtf? I can't watch your linked previous video in my country, nor does it show up on your channel. :(
Wow, this comment section is worst than the Goku vs Superman video.
I agreed with most of your video but its was somewhat dishonest to put a picture of Thomas Jefferson when you mentioned rape. We don't know and never will know if the child he had with a slave was consensual or not.
You have a mental disease.
I fucking Love Rock N Roll 2! Rock Music is the shit!
The one world government wiped out Norse.
good work bruv kedo that japanese accent needs WORK <3 this a new youtube account i lost passwords but im back in this str8outtanewgrounds
Oh shit, Couglan's been through so many channel resets I didn't think he was still kicking around.  What a pleasant surprise.
Oh wow. How pwned we are...
9:00 A slowly evolving culture is not a problem, a culture being pulled back by mass migration from countries that haven't had women's equality or gay equality movements is. Don't try to tell Europe about integration from a country that is 1% Muslim. The big problems start at 5%.
A demented tranny talking about how White identity isn't legitimate.  Oh the fucking irony.
There is no argument against Whites having their own nations.
Coughlan! :D
Holy shit, you got Lindsay Ellis in on this? Great job, man.
"There will be setbacks and conflict, but in the long term it's honestly going to be fine" No citation provided, no argument made. What if the 90 or so studies demonstrating that conflict and alienation are causal features of racial diversity are correct? What then? Well, then you've just ruined those formerly homogeneous countries for your diversity cult. This is what drives me up the wall with you people. You don't realize that, at least for a little while longer, you are NOT the conservatives and the burden of proof that your policies are beneficial is on YOU to demonstrate. Diversity is not some a-priori good. Facts are FAR from on your side despite the snark. WN aren't going away anytime soon. http://thealternativehypothesis.org/index.php/2017/01/07/ethnic-diversity-strength-or-weakness/
I am against the purity of races, i dont think that the U.S. or Germany (two of the most powerful countries in the world) are threatened by raping immigrants or whatever etc etc ...if anything the German local industry requires cheap labour to stay competitive and that's probably the main reason why Merkel accepted so many immigrants and refugees recently into the country. Also, i'm not against multiculturalism wherever it is needed, for example: in Countries that had imported slaves in their colonial past. Obviously the U.S. is a deeply multicultural nation. This, of course, doesnt mean that every other nation should be like that, or should want to be like that.  Anyway, and to be realistic here, there is one country in Europe (not central Europe) that due to its extremely sensitive geographical location, its economic status, its dwindling birth rates, its aggressive neighbours who seek to take advantage of any muslim minority etc (many negative factors) could in the future end up being in a (even more) serious situation that is compounded by immigration, that country is: Greece. Funnily enough this country was mentioned by you in one of the comments that you read, just the rest of the comment was laughable.
have you ever considered a career at a consulate or the foreign and diplomatic service?
Damn, there goes your Disney contract.
Good shit...good shit. I never cared for if you're on the left or on the right, just that you're sensible. Unfortunately, a lot of the far left seem to be insensible gaining this negative reputation among the interwebs. Just found you but I wish you had more subs to show that you don't have to be a full-blown centrist or skeptic to not be an idiot. Earned muh sub
No other channel entertains and informs me the way you do. Now take my money!
My comment made it into this video. I am now famous. Love me.
Brilliant. It really is fear, and in my mind it's not even really about the general identity but fear about their own mediocrity and irrelevance and a desire to get some kind of self-esteem by pretending that they're better because they're white. And I love how you flipped the script by using African peoples' survival to show how fragile these people are. It's like Baldwin said: if you've never had these real existential challenges, you don't know your own depths, haven't sounded them out. I hope many of these people get a chance to do that and realize they, and what they care about, can survive, at least as long as anything can.
sorry that were winning xD
Once again you are doing the Lord's work dressed like the devil. Goodjob. The knee up so we can see the boot is a nice touch
I endorse this degeneracy so fucking hard.  Also, *nice* boots.
I say fuck white nationalists but also fuck the far left for good measure. Long live the liberal master race!
When you were talking about the resilience of black American culture it was like you were reading my mind. Jamaica sticks out even more - I swear that place invented like half of all contemporary music genres.
You're spot on about black culture, we are unbreakable
Hi. I'm a big Sargon fan and I love your channel. There are tons of wonderful points made in this video and seeing both sides of the argument puts everything into better perspective; I'm going to go on an 'sjw' video binge and see what I can learn. Keep up the good work, Contra. [Also: Damn you're cute.. :3]
Ye, bluegrass and jazz are the skeleton of all modern music, without those, made mostly by african americans, music would not have evolved much.
Oh I got it! Europe has to enslave the muslim refugees for hundreds of years, forcefully convert them to christianity and then they're culture will contribute to the west! Great point!
Weon bueno
How many languages do you speak wow  Also your makeup looks great
wait newgrounds wat
Whoa, doing a video arguing against white nationalism.  This must have been a really hard video to make.  I mean, who'd have thought that white nationalists are full of shit?  Are you going to do a video debunking Scientology or  Mormonism next?  Makes me wonder why you couldn't get a PhD.
Can't believe I didn't make the screenshot. You will rue this day!  "ongoing subjugation" pfffft
You are my favorite SJW :) (and yes I am conservative)
I don't agree with all of your ideological opinions (which is to say i *sometimes* disagree with the origins of your conclusions, even though I do agree with the conclusions you come to) but holy moly this video is a national treasure. This belongs in the Smithsonian immediately.
Hey there ContraPoints,       First off, I really did like the video. Your channel is a sight for sore eyes to many left-leaning people who have been frustrated about not having enough discourse-interested "YouTube personality" representatives for their viewpoints. Some points of contention from me: I'm fairly certain that America is not the most multicultural nation in the world, perhaps if you added some extra qualifiers. This bothered me more because you did briefly touch upon how other nations that people often view as homogeneous are anything but, such as India or nations in Africa.       Another point that didn't bother me so much personally but more because it seems counterproductive in a discourse with alt-right viewers is  you stating that your culture is American culture, and then afterward that your culture is half black. A lot of people I've talked to have really been upset and shut themselves off to people who (in their minds, whether rightfully or wrongfully,) over represent black culture in America. I think it's good that you acknowledge the cultural resurgence of oppressed black peoples, but to also realize that using a word like half when referring to a relatively small portion of the population (and not the population you are trying to engage, the alt-right) may be working against yourself and the point of your videos.       On a side-note, a video on all of the African cultures that slaves were a part of before they were brought to America might be interesting,  or really just videos explaining the concept of culture and ethnicity in general, as oftentimes it is fundamental misunderstandings of these concepts that seem to cause issues. (Apologies if you have videos on these already, I have not gone through your entire catalog, although I mean to eventually.)  -Just a Destiny Viewer   P.S. Thanks for coming on and helping him with philosophy stuff some future collaborations would be dank.
When im too lazy to read to the comments to dont actually understand anything
no joke you're kind of like, my new hero?  also that lipstick you were wearing is a really nice colour
Tfw someone mentions 1000 year Reich.
Sweet! I made the video!  Thank you for making a decent video response!  Also it depicts a good argument.  I'm not going to say that any people "deserve" anything, but we want an ethnostate and we will work to get one.
Subscribed.
I'm constantly confused as to how the arguments of the reasonable people on both sides of the (for the lack of the better term) 'feminism argument' (Contrapoints, TSF, Ranting Feminist, bane666au, Jeff Holiday) are in many ways compatible (if not similar) and make a lot of sense, and simultaneously how these people seem to have no problem getting along with the less reasonable (to put it mildly) people on their corresponding sides, who have either fully embraced tribalism (Steve Shives, Undoomed, etc.) and/or are intellectually dishonest (or just fucking stupid. Looking at you Sargon).
NOT AN ARGUMENT + MAXIMUM CUCKOLDERY = MAXIMUM ARGUMENT, REMAINER: NOT A CUCKOLD
I did a bit of thinking over this deep rooted fear that you mentioned and I figured that it isn't really a new thing. If you read stories by H.P. Lovecraft, they are all about cosmic horror, the smallness of the human within and so on. But if you look a bit beneath the layer (and replace every mention of fish-like characteristics in "Shadow over Innsmouth" with "dark skin") you see that he too was just a guy terrified of racial mixing and what he saw as the steady decline of his beloved white people. As if the fact that my barber is Turkish and my mailman is African suddenly heralds the awaking of the starborn ones.
the feminazi is your best look so far hahahhaha
Your thoughts are great! But you need work on those vibratos!
God fucking dammit these videos are so fucking glorious. Nobody else even comes close.
It isn't Muslim demographics in particular that people should worry about. Rather, it is the demographics of the highly conservative/fundamentalist religious in general. See http://www.belfercenter.org/publication/demographic-projections-predict-fundamentalist-populations-surpassing-secular
the golden one told you to quit alcohol is it bad if we agree as worried fans
*shakes my head and smiles*
It's rather amusing how you base your view of nationalists on a bunch of internet comments on your channel. Yes, sadly, there is a huge amount of tradfags that want to freeze time, but there's a lot of futurists here too.
"...When you decided it was ok to build razorwire fences in front of children fleeing for their lives".  I agree with some points you make, but why do you resort to this inaccurate strawman? Most refugees who arrive in Europe are men above the age of 20. Immigration skeptics are generally not critical of children arriving but of the abnormal amounts of adult males arriving.
I love u ContraPoints ur amazing + hilarious + so fuckin smart ! what a legend
we don't deserve you
Europeans don't want an unassimilated group of religious conservatives fuckin up they're countries.
UN replacement migration
At 10:10. No their humanity didn't die when they does that because those people didn't have any humanity to begin with. I sadly know them.
You are ridiculous. I love it.
Old Norse did 9/11
Marvelous as usual - and that outfit! WOOF!
you are amazing and i want to be your friend!
Super glad I found this channel. Good stuff.
contrapoints w/ chez lindsay and T1J <3 <3 <3
And here I am, thinking that I would be really, really proud if my kid was as articulate, educated, clever and charismatic as you are... even if it apparently took a lot of weird teenaged mistakes to get there?
The existential dread part is very accurate. I fell for the same thing, except I was 16 years old and instead of a Nazi, I became an exceptionally intolerant Communist.
Another cracking video.  Would have like more on the idea of white nationalists feeling they 'deserved' their own ethnostate (however barren the idea of an ethnostate might be).  'Deserving' suggests an appeal to natural law, or to reparation for damages inflicted in contravention of that law.  Also, great attention to detail (e.g. the purple and green lighting).
I liked the video but I think failing to mention the no-go zones in Sweden was weird. I agree that the alternative right is basically afraid of change, and I think it is why they so strongly oppose SJW progressives, who are all too eager for change, and in many cases don't think things through before implementation. But you also have to account for there being a very similar mindset in the majority of refugees and economic migrants, that their way of life is the norm and the best. We need more willingness to mix culture and give up dearly held beliefs if an alternative is simply better.
I was listening to everything you said until 2 minutes into the video. HOT DAMN <3
White people becoming a minority is what the alt right mean when they talk about white genocide (I agree the term is silly). They're talking about having their culture and political influence limited within their own countries. You admit this is happening: you say the white population as a percentage of the whole is in decline… and you celebrate this? Why do you want whites to become a racial minority in America?   You reject the notion of an ethno-state, so do you also want Japanese people to become a minority in Japan? Or Pakistanis to be a minority in Pakistan? Is this the dream for the left? To import so many immigrants to make every nation exactly the same, devoid of national and ethnic identity?  It just baffles me that anyone could think this is a good direction to go in. I actually think it's rather sick. And I see no benefit from this globalist, mass immigration project; only racial division and violence will come of it.
as a disillusioned Sargon of Akkad "skeptic" progressive, I find your content very in entertaining and enlightening. Im a new youtuber and would greatly appreciate the honor of discussing social justice and the left in general with you some day.
Will there be an all-Contra beauty pageant? I think we need that!
God dammit.  You crossed my "made enough videos I enjoy" for me to subscribe.  Fuck.  That being said, I don't tend to agree with the ENTIRETY of your video; mostly the comparison of Sargon with Breitbart and POTUS.  Admittedly, he has said inflammatory stuff regarding the migrant immigration, but I think a lot of that comes from concern with over-representation of extremism in Islam.  Really though, I think it'd be fascinating to see the two of you calmly and rationally discuss the topic (preferably for YT to force the audience of each other to be exposed to multiple points of view), because I think you both bring useful points to the table, and ultimately I think you both come from the same starting point of wanting to serve the safety and well-being of your country and/or the world.  Anyway, please keep up the great work, you confusing-but-well-arguing man.
What philosophy should I read to disenchant myself from the authoritarian glamour of the alt-right?
2:04 Easily the strongest look you've ever served. CommiePoints punches Nazis; ContraPoints slays them.   Please take my hand and marry the state.
You know, genetically, white people are just Northwest-Asians.  You know, geologically, Europe is just the western most part of Asia.    It doesn't even have its own fucking plate, and no one calls it "Indasia" when the Indian Plate with quadruple the population is included.    My point is that these fucking northwest-middle-east nationalists need to go get a fucking _tan_.  (Both literally and metaphorically.  Fucking shut-ins.)
On second thought, I am mad that you did not ask me to guest read in this video. I just bought a new mic and interface too :(
I love you so much
aww, you added asmr to one of your videos :'''')
oh my god, just watching the first bit reminded me of what a weeaboo i was. But, at least i understand japanese now.
So a trans identitarian clutching onto the more recent, mainstream, jewish, antiwhite, neocon/neolib years attempting to make fools of white identitarians clutching their countries in an attempt to maintain them the way the founders/their ancestors intended. Neat  Your argument against ethnonationalism was only that you "don't support nonwhite ethnonationalism either", but that doesn't change the fact you're still an identitarian even though you're clearly confused about the white male identity that you can't accept. Not to mention, your opinion doesn't change the fact that nonwhite ethnostates will continue to exist, while white ethnostates will never be attempted spreading propaganda like this with the target audience of majority white countries. It's not a very strong argument if you're not just as passionate or more-so about already existent nonwhite ethnostates as you are about the theory of a white ethnostate. It's just antiwhite. Comparing the low crime in a completely nordic country like iceland to countries like sweden which has been taken over with migrant no-go zones, (which before the migrant crisis had a similarly low crimerate) the statistics you present are garbage, like "rape vs reported rape". All crime has gone up in sweden even though it's infamous as the "rape capital of europe". The crimerate of iceland is utopian as was the sweden crimerate pre-migrants.
It's kind of funny to me how white nationalists, alt-righters, whatever... deify Norse culture and language, as if their pale complexions would've made them the natural allies of the Vikings. Vikings raped, pillaged, and killed a ton of white people. Exclusively white people, actually. Doesn't that make the vikings race traitors or something?  Furthermore, they weren't even a "race" or a culture, in the typical sense of the word. They were non-Christian brigands who didn't answer to a classical nation/state.  The Norse culture these idiots draw upon didn't really exist. It's buffet Norse culture. Pick the parts that appeal to them, for whatever reason, and ignore the rest.
0:50 the white nationalism video isn't visible from Germany. I had to use a proxy to watch. Not all your german fans are as tech savvy as me I fear.
I wish I was half the crossdresser you are :(  Make up tutorials please.
I am sad that I can only thumb this up once.
I always look forward to you videos. Thanks for bringing balance to topics like this, keep it up!
I do really like your videos, the style and production are great. You have a great personality. However, I think part of the attraction to Trump, Geert Wilders and Marine Le Pen comes from the Left refusing to address or even acknowledge the problems that immigration and cultural conflict DO cause, specifically Muslim. You can brush them off with a selection of stats about how we aren't going to be demographically replaced but you can also find other legitimate ones that are quite worrying and don't just concern terrorism, likes the rates of FGM, cousin marriage or misogynist, murderously homophobic opinions of Muslims in the UK. Or the Sharia patrols, no-go zones, male exclusive cafés in France or other European countries. In the U.S. and Canada you can also find Muslims preaching despicable things in Mosques or universities (just look up Sheikh Sekaleshfar or many others). I'm personally not worried about Islamists or Fascists taking over but I am worried about their violence and the need for bigger governments that will take away more freedoms and start wars (I see my PM Justin Trudeau, Hillary Clinton and the EU as more restrictive in some ways than my favourite Right-wingers).The open-borders, any criticism or questioning of immigration is racist Left just reinforces the seal the borders Right.
This vid is the best birthday present. Even better than cash
Can't honestly say why anyone cares about white nationalists right now. I don't see them having much of an influence on anything in particular. But I guess you're free to talk about whatever you want, and your points were interesting ones.
You sir, have some of the best fans and comments of the whole Internet (including your _personnel_ Golden One :) Also you must have the greatest collection of costume on Youtube in general !  But I'll stop at 4mn, your vid seems really dense and interesting, so you are reserved for tomorrow, when the sun will shine (almost) and my mind will be clear. See ya !
White nationalists cannot be convinced to abandon their exceptionalism indeed, however they can be convinced that they are not victims of a conspiracy. WN's collectively believe that there is an ongoing plan to "mongrelise" western nations and that politicians, the media, hollywood, pop music, the EU bureaucrats, the "establishment" are all colluding to bring about this plan into fruition. They have seen some images, videos and movies and they have become thoroughly convinced that western nations are inviting, welcoming & aiding foreign populations to come and mix. But that is clearly not true at all. First of all, immigration law is very harsh and arbitrary especially in Europe, scores of people & their children are in limbo without any hope of achieving any kind of legality, many are deported on a daily basis, the EU itself has declared that only Syrian political refugees are welcome, all the rest are to be deported back to either their countries or Turkey. Police and immigration authorities in many EU countries are exceptionally brutal against immigrants and to those who aid them in any way or form. EU directive 2002 forbids any kind of service being rendered to illegal immigrants, taxi drivers have been prosecuted for giving immigrants a ride, escorts of immigrant children to the airport have been prosecuted for assisting children to find their way to their parents. EU directive 2008 forbade countries to issue temporary visas on a blanket basis. Some EU countries had granted temporary visas to illegal immigrants so they could tax their wages and remove them from the black market, other EU countries complained and the EU decided to ban it alltogether. The Dublin II agreement declares than any immigrant must be sent back to the point of entry, so any immigrant in the North or Central Europe must be sent back to Greece or Italy, when Greece filled up with people and could no longer cater for those sent back from the Northern European countries the EU court decided to temporarily suspend that rule but from today(01/03/2017) it has been activated again. This is by no means a welcoming environment. Germany reacted to a crisis by granting a temporary welcome which lasted for 9 months, that is not normative but exceptional and temporary. Then there are problems with "white identity" itself, among Europeans even nationalists it makes very little to no sense at all, if by "white" we mean people of European & Christian heritage forming a cohesive community, then why do white-nationalists take issue with the EU community which is a community of white-christian nations sharing equal rights, why do they want to see Europeans losing their rights in the UK and Britons losing their rights in Europe? What kind of "white solidarity" is this? You mentioned Israel, WN's usually claim that Israel is different because it has "right of blood" laws(jus sanguinis) that enable people who can prove blood relationships to claim citizenship, but what they fail to recognise is that numerous Europeans countries have identical laws including Germany, Italy & Spain. Anyhow we can disagree on personal aesthetics and views about the "looks" of a community but we can at least agree on the facts.
WILL YOU MARRY ME!!!
Ah, Bach!
I tried to argue (I think reasonably) on a rational basis with a white nationalist on ContraPoints's previous video, and yeah, it was exhausting trying to run after those moving goalposts.  You did a great job yet again Contra. Your explanation of the urge to freeze cultural change was articulated far better than I ever could express
When my brother suggested your channel, I was disturbed by your exercise wardrobe. Now, I like seeing you dress femininely.
I had to watch this video twice. Once to actually pay attention to what you're saying and again to ogle you in that trench coat and boots. 👌🏻  In all seriousness, though, one thing struck me in this video. I knew that slave owners often raped their slaves, that fact didn't shock me. But I didn't take into account on how that would mess with their genetic make up and that's...really, really fucked up and depressing. And these people are convinced that that's what's going to happen to white people from big bad immigrants, or any non-white person? That is just COMPLETELY absurd.
This is the best anime I've ever seen.
thanks so much for the captions! great video as always and great boots 👌
oof bby
White nationalist men make me laugh. They want their country to be only white but there are plenty of them who can't keep their dicks out of brown/black women lol.
More Lolita costume please!
You are my favourite human.
The only thing I would disagree with is the automatic dissociation between BLM and the white alt-right.  To be clear, most BLM trends do not fall into this paradigm but a good number do fall into what I would label a revival of 'racial essentialism', basically, the idea that race is not socially-constructed, but that racial heritage determines social worth and a specific set of rights distinguished from the rights of other races. For example: think of all the debates within some BLM circles over who is "truly black", or all the arguments over whether or not black people can be racist. Social constructionists do not talk like that...  I'd place the new black essentialists and the white alt-right in the same category of uncompromisingly extremist postmodern identity politics. They are not exactly the same, but their core ideas have the same make up.
You know how bugs bunny was kind of hot when he dressed in drag?   Yeah you do:)
Holy shit, I recognized all the voices reading the comments except for the woman, and then during the credits I discover it's my favorite film critic Lindsay Ellis? And I thought HBomberguy's cameo in this week's Jimquisition was a nice surprise.
Thank you for the fan service!
This was one of your best videos, but sadly it's just probably gonna make alt-right dudes even more angry. I have faith in you though, Contra!
I don't have a problem with any of the arguments you made, but you used a picture of Sargon as a person who perpetuated white genocide, and I have never heard him say that it's true. Was that a mistake or did he say something about it I'm just not aware of?
Nice #GamerGate lighting you've got there
trolls just want to be acknowledged
I played with that thought the other day. If interracial relations leads to whiteness being muddied and there being fewer white people, doesn't it at the same time mean blackness will be muddied and we won't have as many black people?  White supremacists seem to think of whiteness as something frail that we must preserve with care. It's almost like "non white blood" is stronger than "white blood". Even though whites are supposed to be the master race.  I don't feel a lot of sense being made here.
The US has always been an multiethnic society, and has always had ethnic tension. The notion that white people got along just fine and things went to shit because black/brown people arrived is a false one.
In a way, I feel bad for them since Capitalism is isolation.
I caught the python ref in the credits.  Ausgezeichnet, Contra...
+
MOAR COWBELL!!!!
Literally cognitive dissonance. This dude dodges all of the the alt-rights points.
rotoot0oooooooooooooooooooo
That was the most beautifully painful cover I have ever heard.  <3
Yer a good dude, Contra. Lord knows I don't have the courage to talk to fash normally, even as a former alt-righter.  You and hbomb helped btw
Just brilliant.
Incorrect with the Rape in Sweden part.  Women's confort of reporting rape has been going down.
have the alt-right even tried being cucked? i think its pretty fun, and it triggers the shit out of them so much i always just assumed they are all secretly into it   also when you speak german in that outfit it conjures unholy feelings in me, i like it
You should do a video on Nick Land.
I wonder what even "White Culture" is? Is it a specific nordic culture? British culture? Irish? What?
Aw, don't shit on Newgrounds :(
Um, I need those lights. Where did you get them?
LOL holy shit the thing about losing Old Norse because of one world government. LOL!!!
You're amazing but there's probably no convincing them, even with grade A shit like this.
anime was a mistake. it's nothing but trash.
WHAT NINE THOUSAND??!!! THERE'S NO WAY THAT CAN BE RIGHT!!!!!  Needs more cowbell.  Seriously though, I agree with almost all of what you say. I think you're even right about nationalism really being about fear of change. However, when you say that BLM doesn't have extremists that aren't black supremacists? I mean, that's just verifiably false. Why is Gazi Kodzo not a sufficient counter example to your claim?  I'll grant that the guy clearly has a troubled past, but so do many working class ignorant white nationalists (I don't mean ignorant as a joke, I genuinely mean it. Most of these people who identify as alt-right aren't stupid, but simply lack any kind of perspective or education, namely because of the reasons that I will provide later in this comment). I'm not trying to demonize the guy, but I'm also not trying to demonize white nationalists (I'm not convinced that you necessarily are either). My point is that I can't really see how BLM and other "progresive" community organizations can't be criticized for using impropper tactics or why we have to sit down and agree with them simply because they're some of the have-nots.  I really like Alinsky. He's wrote what I think to be the most important political text since The Prince. And, were I to have an intellectually honest discussion in private with Alinsky (if he were still alive of course), I would like to ask him about the importance of the last section of his book where he explicitly predicts the failure of the progressive movement to incorporate lower middle class white families, who have been ostracized by both the more well off families and the progressive movement who exclusively protects only the oppressed minorities.  Don't get me wrong, I know that being black in America has its own problems, but in addition to the fear of losing the culture, the alt-right also has the fear of economic and social anxiety in that they will soon be in the place of these oppressed minorities because no one has been there to organize them for their interests. People ignored Alinsky's prediction and the alt-right was born.  I'm not saying that I blame BLM, but because I have that perspective, I don't see how I can possibly blame the alt-right either. Alinsky predicted this happening over 40 years ago before it was even remotely foreseeable by anyone else. In fact, I almost think that the alt-right is going to be a GOOD thing because these people need to have their interests advocated for because no one has been doing it for so long. Remember, the KKK never used to be, until recently, for the poor uneducated whites. It was a sophisticated WASP southern gentleman organization. To characterize the KKK today as similar to the KKK in the 1950s is intellectually dishonest. I mean, just look at how many politicians from the past 10-15 years--those at the top of the class structure in America--have ties to the KKK--both Democrats and Republicans alike.
Even though I do not agree with your opinions on certain topics, I do enjoy your videos very much and have subscribed.
This was a brilliant video Contrapoints! The way that you analysed this subject is similar to the way that I handle arguments about religion or gender roles or what have you.  Arguing against religious doctrine is useless, same thing with ideological doctrine. If you want to really get to the reason as to why something is or is not, can or can't work, you need to look at the concepts or characteristics that serve as the basis for it's existence, instead of those that give it legitimacy.  It seems that the fear here is of being "obsolete" so to speak. To be phased out over time and have everything you knew and worked for be changed to a point where it is unrecognizable. Your point about the futility of fighting against social change in general, is particularly interesting because it is so true. The standards of what is civilised or barbaric, masculine or feminine, right or wrong are forever changing; and forever will.
That is a very important point near the end. White nationalism in America is essentially going "we don't want any music from the last hundred years. Rock and Roll? Hamilton? Fuck you!"
😂😂😂😂 I love this!!
You're the best, I love your stuff! <3
Contrapoints is glorious, Hail.
Also, another point is that it was white people that conquered the entire world & it's white people until very recently had all of the power. People around the world are still judged by white standards & most anime characters are made to look white. African , Asian & Middle Eastern women are conditioned to bleach their skin. Minorities are pretty much judged by how well they integrate into &/or adopt white culture. These people are terrified & threatened by change & progress, as well as losing their power. Even Communist countries in Eastern Europe adopted very conservative views when it came to integration & they even persecuted minorities. A few good examples of this is the persecution of Roma in Czechoslovakia, persecution of ethnic Turks in Bulgaria & the complete dominance of people of Russian, Ukrainian & Belarusian descent in the Soviet politburo, as well as the the persecution of anyone who wasn't of Russian, Ukrainian & Belarusian descent by pushing Russian culture on all Soviet citizens.
I think you're right in going for an emotional appeal, but the emotions you're targeting are off. Try explaining to them why they would stand to benefit from a multi-cultural society, convince them that the breakdown in societal trust that accompanies a culturally divided society will be worth it, at least in the long term. And you might not want to play up the whole "America is the most multi-cultural country in the world" thing, at least not if you're trying to appeal to European white nationalists. Europeans of all stripes, white nationalists included, think America is a bit of a mess and their country becoming more like America is most likely not something they would relish. In fact the only people in Europe who generally publicly speak about America as an example to aspire to are ultra-capitalists who want to fuck the welfare state to death and grind up the corpse.
he's only gone and nicked No Bunny's drawers and cowbell, as well. . .
kill all people with iq under 100, what u think, sound good?
They "fear" scapegoats. But they are phobophiles.
the comments shown is the reason i want the alcohol age lowered to 18  because if so i would be SCREAMING FOR MOTHER RUSSIA
European culture, language, people, whatever, aren't "under threat of being wiped out/immigrants don't tend to destroy culture, or replace the native culture with their own".  You make this assumption without providing any evidence.  1) How has assimilation and integration worked out for Europeans so far? Take Britain, for example. Muhammed is now the most popular boy's name and Islam is the fastest growing religion in the country. In May last year we elected a muslim as mayor of our capital city. Church attendance has rapidly declined since the 1950s and many perceive the Christian Church (which has been around for more than 1000 years) as obsolete because it refuses to stand up for its values and traditions. A culture without a strong state religion creates a spiritual vacuum that can and will be easily filled by foreign and hostile cultures. With several terrorist attacks in recent years, it's become increasingly obvious that the Islamic faith is not compatible with western culture - multiculturalism sounds great in theory, but works terribly in practice.   2) What will happen to democracy when whites become a minority in Europe? The assumption is that, over time, we'll all 'blend together' which was the intention of the founders of the EU - but this ignores one simple problem:  Human tribalism. Do whites really want to give up all their political, social, and economic power by destroying their ethnic homogeneity?   At school we're taught that race is just a social construct and that diversity is "our greatest strength" but is this really true? In Robert Putnam's study on Diversity and Community Trust he found that more diversity in a community is associated with less trust both between and within ethnic groups. Distrust between the ethnic groups will rise with diversity, but not within a group.   Putnam describes people "hunkering down," avoiding engagement with their local community—both among different ethnic groups and within their own ethnic group. Even when controlling for income inequality and crime rates, more diversity is still associated with less communal trust. What this shows is that the slogan "diversity is our strength" which has been peddled by the mainstream left for the last 50 years is nothing but a myth.   Imagine there are 2 teams playing a football match (Red and Brown). If the Red team passes the ball to their own team AND the other players, but the Brown team only passes to their OWN players, who is more likely to win? Obviously the Brown team. This is called the Iterative Prisoner's Dilemma. When taken to its logical conclusion, this means ceasing to hold in-group preferences eventually leads to the conquest of the minority group over the majority. So far this hasn't happened because whites have had a relatively strong majority. However, this is rapidly changing because immigrant and foreign born populations tend to have more children and vote for left wing policies (so they can have even more children).   Unfortunately, this conflict will not end peacefully. The lessons of the holocaust and the Second World War were not taken seriously. What we should have learned is that different groups and ethnicities are in a constant state of competition and rivalry, and therefore need their own living space. Unfortunately, we went in the complete opposite direction and embraced multiculturalism which is nothing short of a suicide cult for white people.   "Those who want to live, let them fight, and those who do not want to fight in this world of eternal struggle do not deserve to live" - Adolf Hitler
Fantastic content as usual. Keep it up.
As a broke-ass student, I never supported any Youtuber other than with thumbs, not even the science ones I love, but I finally decided to support your videos, because you are by far the most charismatic advocate for the liberal viewpoint I lost faith in long ago. I agree with much of what you say and disagree with some, like any thinking person, but I felt it worth it to support you in hopes you will grow and make better arguments. I'm sure I will keep disagreeing with some of your points—mostly because I sense you argue from Snow's "Humanities side" while I prefer the "Science side"—on the basis of incompleteness and limited scholarship, but I feel your points have gotten better in time, and you have the charisma to make it a blast!
You seemed capable of humor and collected at the start, but then you completely lost yourself arguing with strawmen and dismissing ideas by throwing labels around. You went from "Sovereign state governed by the people who built it" to "NATIONALIST ETHNOSTATE GAS THE JEWS NOW" for no reason. *Nobody* , even in alt-right circles, makes the argument of a nationalist ethnostate without being made fun of and to paint an entire group of people like that is ridiculous. You hinted at possible arguments you 'totally could have made' , but then dismissed them with "Oh well it's been debunked so many times already". Really? How does an increase in reports of rape counter the point that "Hey maybe just throwing 200000 immigrants in a country that doesn't even have enough housing and jobs for their native population is not a very good idea" ? I have nothing against immigrants, but the immigration policies are absolutely crazy, they damage the immigrants themselves, both in image and well being, more than they help them and proof of that is people voting for Trump in the US, Brexit in the UK and the rise of Le Pen in France.  Most of this video is just cherry picking comments and reading them in funny voices.
i love you ROFL god damn
Nice little bit of hbomberguy in there.
You're friends with Lindsey Ellis?  Cool
The wrong side won WW2.
DISGUSTING.
Over 9000 cμçκ comments.  How do you manage to sort through all that, and still manage to spot a golden comment from Das Vergoldet Eine?
Wow I got a bad look from the person sat next too me on the train when they saw Contra in that costume
It took 100,000 refugees to kill all of the Roman empire and it's culture, you are dishonest to the core, if you disagree with the alt-right I am more than certain Vox Day or Mike Enoch, millennial woes or someone like that would love to debate with you, but you would never go for something like that, for obvious reasons.  You are against homogeneous nations, that is all I need to know that you are a anarchist, because you certainly don't have peoples best interest at heart. Why should anyone listen to a narcissistic, egotistical, ideologically indoctrinated evolutionary dead end? They should not.
Your Japanese pronunciation ain't too bad! I giggled when you kept saying はい~!  Anyways, come by my house DADDY with that fab Police looking costume of yours XD. What's the Japanese song you used in the beginning? I didn't see it in the description.
Rick the Dick Goblin!
I happen to be reading some H.P.Lovecraft and your video's observation on the alt-right's fear of change suddenly makes sense with Lovecraft's infamous tendency to associate any of the existential horrors he invented to cultures outside of his western bubble of reality.
I don't speak Japanese or German, so I can't evaluate your ability to actually speak those languages, but I can at least say I'm impressed by how you speak both languages with such _confidence_.
Why do white nationalists call anyone they don't like a Jew?
I looked away for a second and when I heard "Hitler was too moderate" I thought it was Paul Joseph Watson
So... again, white nationalism is a nostalgic thing a desire to go back to a time that never existed.
i think i'm in love with you
Dick Cucklan is a part of the SJeW conspiracy ran by The True Pooka.
Your waifu is trash
African slaves were not just ripped from their homes, they were also sold.... by other Africans who had power over them... So, do we like, ignore them or wut?
Lot of interesting points (the big stein of what I presume is a pilsner was maximum kek.)  I'm curious what your thoughts are on cultural appropriation, and it's implication that minority sub-cultures should be exclusive to those minorities and should be (rather patronizingly in my opinion) sheltered from mainstream assimilation?
Love the literal "feminazi" outfit
Unrelated, but I just wanted to say..those are amazing boots.
Haha, you surprised me. Good arguments. <3
Watashia wa bideo ga suki desu!
I fucking love your lighting so much. It's so original.
I was arguing about ethnostates with a guy and I cited the variety of ethnic groups in perceived homogenous nations. He respond with, "Well, they're all the same race."!
はい。
Wow Contra, the1janitor, dick, hbomberguy and Lindsay Ellis in one video. I feel blessed
i'd say the alt right also fears fists quite a bit now
I don't know what I've stumbled upon but this was a great and informational vid.
I haven't heard of your stuff before this, when someone linked it elsewhere.  I dig both the fashion choices and the content!
My favorite deranged maniac.
It´s so weird when you´re german and you´re reading the english subtitles...
Would be nice to hear actual arguments. He talks about arguments... Doesn't present any.   Here I present that main argument of the alt-right and the  "nationalist" position:  The right wants smaller (or no) government. That is a goal that anarchists should share. However, a VAST majority of immigrants come an  hop on welfare... and stay there. They also tend to vote overwhelmingly  democratic. How can we abolish the state when we keep importing people  who are going to grow the size and scope of government?  As far of the ethno-state is concerned: If you claim to be an  anarchist, how can you also claim to have any authority over people who  wish to voluntarily organize themselves into, say, a ethnic-based  commune?
you dressed as a moe anime girl was something i had no idea i needed in my life
Genius.  I recently watched the much-beloved film _Flatland_ and for a while, in all innocence, thought Sargon of Akkad had voice-acted A Sphere. I'm glad that character causes mayhem across the dimensions and has to die for it, frankly. How are you on Norman Finkelstein and Christian Zionism originating from the entitled British classes? Are you familiar with how merchant banking works, creating forever unrepayable 'debts'?
We don't deserve ContraPoints.
Hans- get the gas. ;)
bringing up the history of black americans kinda makes you wonder if white nationalists are just afraid of having done to them what was done to black and native americans
Contra speaking German is sexy as fuck.
6:27 "The idea that only white nations are multicultural or multiethnic is false" No one ever said that (or an idiot said that), but what we mean is most if not all majority white first world countries are expected to be gleaming pillars of racial diversity. All the countries that you gave us examples of are either shit holes (like peru) or they have a far larger native population despite being multiethnic (china, which is overwelmly Han inhabited). Hell, one could say Japan is "multiethnic" since the raw definition of multiethnic is "relating to or constituting several ethnic groups", or according to Merriam Webster Dictionary, " made up of people of various ethnicities".  So since there are like a handful of black people and white people in Japan, It is also multiethnic.  6:40 "But here I am, arguing with facts again, and white nationalism isn't about facts" But you're facts proved nothing of real value or importance, just like the last video you spewed out, and this is why yet again your efforts are futile. You're such a failure you even mentioned Shaun and Jeb, just, just fucking think about that. You're also disgusting to look at and trust me, it makes it that much harder for me, and many others to watch this.  edit: 5:36 You completely failed to counter this comment here, and calling them trolls when they're actually making a reasonable argument doesn't mean that they're discredited somehow. You then say that BLM doesn't advocate for an ethnostate while White Nationalism does. First of all, not everyone in the Alt-Right wants an Ethnostate. The comment at 5:36 does not imply or even mention an ethnostate, it just questions why White people cannot say "I'm proud to be white" without being called massive racists but any other race can do it. This anti-white rhetoric and "white privilege" bullshit that has been going around for a long time and that's what he's fucking talking about. Why can't you reply to that? Actually why did you even include it, you didn't even address it, you sweeped it under the rug as another "oh lol another nazi".
I'm actually dying. The intro killed me. Also the color lighting you used was pretty dope.   I felt the bringing up the Ethno-state subject was a good idea, but a little bit hurried.To a progressive, leftist, lib-cuck,  as myself, I understand that ethno-state is not a good idea. But to say an Alt-right or even the moderate conservative Jilline, who works the gas-station cash register in the middle of Kansas who is afraid of Arabs, why are white ethno states bad?   Lastily, I thought it was an interesting angle to approach the topic of Muslims taking over white culture by using African-American culture and it's impact on American society, a really unique but easily verifiable point. But I think a different group could have been used here since the Muslims are refugees and immigrants, not forcibly kidnapped and enslaved people who built up the economy of our country's history. I would say maybe use a different culture or group from American history to prove a point. (Maybe Cubans, Russians, Jews, Mexicans,etc.), because then this way, you can relate the country's fear for this mass immigration of people, and how it in the long run, didn't "destroy muh culture!". Basically what I'm saying is, I felt the relation to the slaves and immigrants wasn't the strongest comparison, but the end point of culture not changing, but in fact, being enriched, was well done.   All in all, nice video and keep up the good work :)
Huh. Existential dread makes people into nazis? Existential dread just makes me wanna reach out and connect with other people. Different strokes.
subbed
This was not convincing......the electorate of the USA hovered around 85- 90% white European since inception. In 1965 (Hart–Celler Act) we opened the flood gates to third world immigration and have now collapsed to 60% white European. In this time identity politics and tribalism have infected the body politic and the 2 national parties have completely  polarized so much that the current president is "LITERALLY HITLER"....  but its cool because "it will all work out in the end", and you like black music....  also fuck Japan and korea for staying homogeneous and safe, it is wrong because ..........because...........its wrong.....
I am envious both of the ease with which you present relatively complex arguments in a concise manner, and the extent of your wardrobe.   Well done. As usual.
needs more cowbell
8:12 OMFG ARE YOU KIDDING ME. Old Norse did not die out in became the modern Scandinavian languages and had a major influence on English. It wasn't molded together with anything and it didn't die out it evolved. Most Scandinavian folks today would with some trouble be able to recognize large parts of Old Norse. Which btw was never called Old Norse when it existed.
I doubt there will be a "white genocide" but I do understand the fear some people have towards the whole immigration issue.  Look at France and all the Jews that are leaving because problems they are having with the Muslim community.   Why should a government have to spend resources on trying to integrate people from another culture when it seems that a number of them don't even want to make an effort and integrate in the first place?
you make videos so damn fast wtf
Also the Caribbean, black majority and diverse as fuck
Good Old Dick. Seeing him Thursday. Oh yes, and nice dress. I'm jealous
>It takes more than a million immigrants to kill a culture  It also takes more than a few beers to die from alcohol poisoning. But hey lets keep drinking indiscriminately and see where we end up.   Your arguments are flawed, weak, put up against cherry-picked strawman posts. Your "facts" -such as Sweden being the rape "reporting" capital of the world- Still don't disprove the gravity of their situation.   Of course you know this and aren't interested in any actual argument - just making your snarky sounding content that your general viewership gleefully gobbles up because it seems to confirm their biases.   Anyhow, I bid thee adieu and wish you well in your continued efforts to pander to the braindead liberal zombies who actually watch this drivel, they seem to be a real easy crowd to please.
If you are looking for a country that debunks everything the alt right stands for, check out Mauritius.
I met the guy called Colton in an FB politics group, the one that said "maximum cockoldery"
You look like Marilyn Manson in the thumbnail
underappreciated = Beyonce?  Top kek.  Beyonce has made half a billion dollars using autotune to sing soulless garbage that she couldn't be bothered to write herself. Her sharing of her pregnancy is the top liked post of all time on instagram. You would have an easier case to show that she is overappreciated.   Also, you need to sissy that walk when you are wearing heels. It looks very unnatural if you don't sway your hips. You look like a fawn taking its first uneasy steps. You've got to own that hallway, girl.
Thank you so much!
you're really crankin these out, good on you! I appreciate this content
I'm pretty sure Sargon has never once argued for or cited these statistics worried about a white genocide / "white displacement". Feel free to prove me wrong.
Your eyeliner game is on-point.
Hur dur dur dur muh nationalism and you is MAXIMUM CUCKOLDRY
Thank you for referring to young white nationalists as "radicalized", so sick of only seeing that in reference to Muslim men coming from other countries. Ever since I left my conservative religious upbringing behind I've been aware of this strong gust of terror that blows through pretty much all the far-right positions- NeoCons, Evangelical Christians, survivalists, and now Alt-Right or "Dark Enlightenment" thinkers. Mummification is a great term. It's all about halting the march of change because the idea of being left behind is so terrible, and the idea of marching forward with the rest of the world is inconceivable. I don't think for a second any of them actually fear "white genocide" or any actual persecution. It's just terrified flailing in response to a chaotic world in which there are no guarantees.
Your german is suprisingly good^^
Just curious, what do you think about the concept of cultural appropriation and how it relates to this issue of cultural preservation?
he's so perfect
I can not for the life of me believe you are this criminally undersubscribed! Your content is excellent quality.
>Racism is all right if we do it  I'm not even mad, i'm just gonna shit post your racism/appropriation of Asian culture on tumblr until you get doxxed ;P
Very correct Japanese dialog. Naisu!
i wonder how many of them fap and cry to your videos probably literally like *all* of them. definitely a lot of soggy tissues in alt right land when you post somethin.. awwwwyea
But the birthrate of whites is below replacement level in europe.
Your knowing smirk is really comforting, this is what I needed to bring me down from my "what if the white nationalists take over" panic
Harris Bomberguy and Nostalgia Chick?  The most fabulous video about Nazis I've ever seen.
your outfits keep getting better and better!  your videos too
That's it. I'm bisexual.
Being "proud to be white" in a white majority country is redundant. "White American" is synonymous with "American," the same way that "Asian Chinese" is synonymous with "Chinese."
Over Cuckthousand ! : OAWESOME VIDEO!!! \m/
Scheisse ist das witzig :D
The alt-right boys have no culture. Only anime and fantasy fiction.
Contrapoints you're so beautiful. How am I supposed to pay attention to the video when you look like this!
1:43 Colton Streicher? More like Colon Stretcher
Needs more cowbell....
Man the amount of Homer-eroticism in this debates is astounding.  I'll show myself out
Is that T1J? Awesome. I don't have anything to add to the discussion, I just enjoy your videos. I actually came here at the suggestion of T1J.
Anime was a mistake.  On the plus side, maybe it'll make the alt-reich weebs actually watch your video.
Holy shit... I've never been so turned on by someone is an SS-esque uniform. I'll, uh, be in my bunk or whatever
ContraPoints: the Erotic Intellectual
As much as I like Wagner, I couldn't live without B.B. King!
Ich hab nur ein weißes Reich gewollt. Und dann ewigen Ruhe!      (Natürlich /s)
I read and responded to about half the comments on your video about white nationalism and no one called you Cucktrapoints.
You know I always found it bizarre how so many american white nationalists appropriate so much culture that can be traced back to black people. To give an example,the music genre known as metal is very popular in white supremacist circles. Well, it always comes back to black people creating music genres. Black people made blues, jazz and classic american rock & roll and without those metal never would've formed. another example is athletics. White nationalists in my experience like boxing and MMA. Those wouldn't be popular with boxing in the old days of the late 1800s'. It was primary a sporting activity of the poor and it was something that black could stand a chance in against their white counterparts because you could be poor and win. Without folks like Jack Johnson, who was eccentric as hell and very fun to learn about, who beat the shit out of white people in a sport boxing wouldn't have been nearly as popular. Without Joe Louis punching real, actual Nazi Germany nazis we wouldn't have MMA.
K sure I guess your argument is okay but all I could really focus on was that seductive lighting and the kinky Nazi outfit.
I am getting the Yohio vibes here :D
WHOHOO SURPRISE COUGHLAN CAMEO! Also: I am so incredibly sad that I got the Newgrounds joke. I've never even _been_ on /b.
You are right, you are pretty good at talking to the alt-right. If I wanted to convince some neonazis that their ideas are shitty instead of just ridiculing them, I'd probably seek to emulate your approach. I usually don't have the patience for that, though.  I must also compliment your Feminazi Reich Officer cosplay, it was hot as hell.
when you mentioned the USA being the most diverse country in the world i had to look up stats bc i was so surprised that canada doesnt beat it
I agree with basically everything in this video bit I don't think it's fair to imply Sargon of Akkad is a white nationalist or supporter of the alt-right, just sayin'
The other night, I dreamt of knives. Continental drift-divide. Mountains all in a line. Leonard Bernstein. Leonid Brezhnev. Lenny Bruce and Lester Banks. Birthday party, cheesecake, jellybean, boom. You symbiotic, patriotic, slam-book neck. Right? Right.  ...It's the end of the world as we know it. And I feel fine.  Yeah, I get it... demographics are shifting, there's some statistical soothsaying that says that white people will become a minority in our lifetimes... and ya know what? That's FINE. I WELCOME this kind of diversity. There's room on the shelf for a little bit of everything, even if ya gotta MAKE that room and jettison some intellectual and cultural dead-weight. I LOVE multiculture. I want a world that looks less like "The Triumph Of The Wills" and more like a Benaton ad... the kind of diversity that makes The Planeteers look quaint and old-fashioned in comparison.  Ya know why I hate monoculture as a concept? It's freaking BORING.  So yeah... FELLOW WHITE PEOPLE. STOP FREAKING THE FUCK OUT. The world isn't ending simply because we own slightly less of it.
China not an ethnostate when over 90% of the its population is Han Chinese and ethnic minorities are mostly isolated and in their own communities? Even if we ignore that, China has repeatedly been trying to manipulate the population of its Han Chinese population and its minority groups through various forms of eugenics, and eugenics in China has a history of almost 100 years.
One thing I learned from a decade of reading Native American history is that its fairly easy to kill a lot of something, but its very hard to kill all of something. For some reason despite all the forced removals, internments, and straight up massacres; Native Americans are still here. Not a week ago I was listening to stories from my Aunts and Uncles reminiscing about their Boarding School days. How they were beaten with switches if they were caught speaking Navajo. Yet there they were decades later still speaking Navajo. Europe will be fine I think their culture isn't going anywhere. Yeah you may not recognize the culture of your gr-great grandchildren but I doubt my ancestors from the 1600s would have recognized their descendants just a century later with their Spanish influenced clothing and language. Besides Its not like the migrants are forcing your youth in special schools where they are fed soap for speaking Swedish or German.
Gosh, this was good.  And I'm not just saying because I had a LOT of feelings when you were wearing that German dominatrix uniform.
So good.  So damn good.
Can I just say, you keep getting better and better.... Now we just have to convince the Golden One to put down his teddy, and put ON his teddy...
8:10 Actually funny thing about old Norse: it still is spoken today, in an only slightly altered form: Icelandic. Unlike other Nordic countries, Iceland was relatively isolated from the rest of the world, so Icelandic (to my knowledge at least, I could be wrong), has only had some slight alterations over the past millennium or so. Basically, Old Norse is to Icelandic what Early Modern English is to, well, Modern English.
you're videos always bring me great joy. thank yoy
6:25 I get your point and I agree with you, but China is a really terrible of a "multicultural" state at   *94%* ethnic homogenity haha. And most of the remaining 6% are largely Chinese ethnic groups. Hardly a racially diverse state when you can live your entire life without even once seeing another racial group in any number whatsoever. You should also look into the ways that the CCP has been stomping on the human rights of the Tibetan and the Ughyrs for the better part of a century now  like, you cite Japan as an example of a nationalist ethnostate when it has the exact same problems at 98% ethnic homogenity.
I'm going to write a comment about the subject discussed from 9:13 to 9:46 despite not knowing nearly enough about it. I'm not sure it is true that a culture survived percecution. Does jazz look recognisably like the cultures of those originally shipped to America? It seems to me it is at least as much regocnisably American, though it does hint at a very ugly part of America. (slavery and discrimination of black people)  The slave owners didn't ever want to neatly assimilate the slaves into their culture as if they had always been there, they wanted them as a lower class. The singing in the field seems in part like something the slave class in American society did, not primarily something of the culture of the persons once kidnapped.
You're what the alt-right is afraid of, apart from when you dress up in brownface. And make triggered jokes. And jokes about people with eating disorders. And defend their right to spread nazism without getting smacked around.
yo dope colabs in this video. Shit's fucking dope
I love you, Contrapoints, and I want to have your babies.  But I'm a man.  And I'm married. Happily.  And you live so far away.  LIVE CLOSER. And make polygamy legal!
I see the alt-right is like the necromonicon where the longer you study it the less sane you become.
The Golden One should just reveal his true form already and go by "The Condescending One" from now on.
Sweden is the "rape reporting" capital of the world. That is very interesting. It sounds a lot like the "false rape accusation" capital of the world - OR - the feminist capital of the world that doesn't care...I am confused
The folks with fear about their culture are basically saying that their culture has no merit which would make it stand on its own, so it has to be preserved by other means. But the truely funny part is that they are so similar to the over-protective social justice warriors that want to secure foreign cultures from being appropiated, which I think is as much of a silly mentality as the alt right view on their culture.
Good video as usual, bro!  Though I don't think drawing association between gamergaters and the alt-right is generally justified.
"Learn more Japanese vocabulary!" ... "Hai!" Okay, from a jaded-ass comic who not-so-secretly wants anyone else who attempts to be funny to shit the bed, that was fucking El Oh El funny.
Saying that change is going to happen is sort of a given, and it's one that even White Nationalists accept. In fact, when you really engage with them, it becomes apparent that what they desire is in fact RADICAL change - they aren't like conservatives in this sense (if anyone wants cultural mummification, its movement conservatives who would love for the United States to be in an eternal 1983 or thereabouts). Anyway, the more pressing and fundamental question isn't "is change going to happen?" (it will), but what kind of change it will be when it does. The kind of changes wrought by mass migration are different than the ones that spring from technology or secularization or any number of other things, and it is fair for indigenous people to ask if those sort of changes are desirable or not.  Also I agree that many nationalists (myself included, if I'm being honest) are motivated far more by fear than by hatred, but again, that's not necessarily a bad thing. After all, some fears are rationally grounded, others aren't. I think there are good reasons to be afraid of large scale migration. People might disagree, and that's fine,  but I think too often when we say that someone is "just being afraid" we infer that they are also being irrational or hateful or whatever.  Anyways, good video even though I disagree. I appreciate that you make content that deals with the alt right/WNs that isn't just a lazy hit job or empty snark
your best video yet
Rock that cowbell!
listen.... i know that for the most part your trying to tell me something really educational and actually valuable for me and others to know... but i'm too fixated on your GORGEOUS nazi outfit.... and that's just making me sympathize with the nazi plight to wear black leather/latex outfits :(     that IS what they want, right? i mean who wouldn't?!
Oh my God, it WAS Lindsay! :D I thought I recognised her voice.
Dude look at the smiley face at the end of the golden one's comment, he's in love (and he cares for your health)
MORE COWBELL
Love your work - especially love the use of color in this one :)  Also, your point about the perseverance of black culture is spot on. Because of that, I think there's a bit more than just fear. I think white nationalists are jealous. I think there's a desire to be oppressed, to be a victim, to have something keeping them down or threatening their existence so that they too can show how whatever culture they're claiming to have can survive.  They want the spoils of colonialism AND the bragging rights of having survived colonialism. They're envious as fuck.
Anti-sjw shitlord here. Been binging your videos since yesterday and i'm finding your perspective unsetteling.   Unsetteling in the sense that i feel like i jumped a little too hard on the anti-sjw bandwagon and i can't believe that i did not even consider alot of the points you've raised in your videos.   I'm , funnily enough, having a political identity-crisis.  Edit: Thanks for the warm response, guys.
The slaves were sold by their own kings and tribe leaders for riches and goods. Black on black  percentages far surpass white on black crime. I am not left nor right but red pilled half a dose. Liberals(which I once was) have become the fascist and are destroying free speech...an ANTIFA is a home grown terrorist group and pedo lovers. Facts over feelings this thing that is taking place with being politically correct is just creating a generation of better victims because we are giving them the false ideas can end hate speech but we can not as we only have control over ourselves so instead of banning words arresting people for racist words you are just giving the people whom will say and do these things more power to abuse others wit. Kids should be being taught CBT and DBT in school as health education. If we teach and embed in them that not one dictates self worth love and respect but they themselves these individuals whom attack them with words will not have such a horrible impact. We have created such powerful harmful deadly words that children are killing themselves over being called fags someone in those kids lives ruined them by not teaching them the fundamentals to a healthy self esteem. libtards snowflakes sjws need to stop with the petty bullshit and stop trying to create victims over warriors. I had a snowflake tell me I was lucky to be an amputee cause I must get so much privilege and attention...there is a group called trans amputees where people destroy healthy limbs where there are people like me and so much worse off who fought years of illness a trauma to save our limbs.....they've gone off the deep end and sadly the resentment they've created over trying to fuck with petty shit like video games and criminal actions like failure to report rape yet accusing the person on Twitter ....sorry but they are all borderline personality disorder with histrionic traits. Also tell me about male privilege in the justice system where husband and wife will beat rape molest pimp their kids out both be charged the female will get five years while the man gets life and Chen castration while the female can continue to breed and possibly get the kids back. Tell m about male privilege when he is utter love with his SO they are expecting a baby and she aborts it or takes away all his rights when the child is bon. The woman a full blown junkie father a corrections officer upstanding person mother gets rights because "he is just a sperm donor" I have known boys and men who kill themselves over these issues. Why does no one talk a out the women who molest as teens and children? The disgusting land whales that flock to online gaming not out of interest in the game s but because they figure it will be was to find a guy typically a 13-18 year old when they are well in their 30s....see it all the time. Monsters and ignorance is gender blind a monster is a monster females should not get a get out of jail free card because they were once a  victim since males who are victims can not use this excuse. We live in a country where black men and women are made role models an idols Gods even millionaires for mediocre talents while old men who served them countries got agentnorgange hep c becams diabetic because of what the military did to them and they are spit on and laughed at and mocked.... so anyone who wants to claim that race gender creed sexuality class dictates ones privilege in this world complete with excluding life experience can fuck off because they are so blind and in empathetic they are lacking the very thing that separates us from animals when most animals thrive and survive far greater in comparison to your extreme left and ANTIFA. They are a gen aided in the mental health system and were deaf to what they didn't want to hear there will ALWAYS be triggers that burden lays on you alone it is my problem if something triggers me and no one else's  and that is what coping skills are taught for this gen failed to grasp that. Expectations are premeditated resentments. \endrant tl;dr oh well stay blind enjoy your miserable life
Oh yeah, also, this is definitely your best video, content wise. All of them are pretty much equal in aesthetics and all of them are poignant. But this one is the most poignant of all of them.
I love you😘
2:01-2:10 * likes video, unsubscribes in order to subscribe again *
Omg all of the anti-anti-sjws are uniting unnnnghghghgh so good. More cross-overs!
Kay babe, so yeah, nah. We don't want to go back and "keep it the way it is". The idea is that, and Hitler's Germany has doing this, we would better grow and develop and innovate as a homogeneous race. We don't want to fucking mummify ourselves in a particular period. We still want progress -- just on a different road.  You fucking strawman a lot. But keep at it, you're entertaining, and I appreciate the genuine effort to actually have a platform of discussion. I suppose it's hard to not strawman when you are essentially just talking to yourself.
this person is untrollable. LOL.
Fuck, Just look at Japan. They love Disney, an American company. Look at some of the most popular anime. Fullmetal Alchemist is drawn around a German Aesthetic, so is Attack on Titan. And my favorite show of my  current life's experience Avatar: The Last Airbender, is an American corporation and creative talent doing their best to emulate Japanese produced Animation, at least some of the best parts anyways, and a whole fuckton of all of that shit is drawn and rendered in South Korea. It is fucking hilarious to me whenever a segregationist/nationalist uses an anime avatar of something from these shows, but also because anime is very much a result of globalistic interaction. And not just globalistic interaction, but globalistic rape, in the sense that, justified or not, The United States reduced much of Japan to a smoldering pile of ash before they were forced to reform as a country that necessarily had to be open to the level of globalism that created the Japanese animation industry.  And this actually makes Alt-Right-ists even worse, because they will always trend towards imperial fascism, because despite all of their reassurances, they love foreign culture. They just love it when it is ON THEIR TERMS. And, I guess, so do most people, most people want the upper hand in any deal. But we are going to have to fight our own greed to work together. But I guess that I am just not as much of a "pussy" as alt-righters who are willing to let themselves be cucked by their own animal instincts into acting like a belligerent fool.
Today I went to a Turkish barber. He gave me  stellar haircut, free chai tea and we joked about our jobs.  So if I have to choose of Europe being more like that or more like the sad, shouty stupidity of the neo-nazis, I go with the former.  Oh... and good video. Glad you had the Dick out.  Coughlan, I mean...
sick vocals at 1:42!
damn. you can speak other languages too? your hotness has increased.
Oh Contra, you alpha of alpha males, you don't make the arguments just to convince "the opposition" they're wrong. You do it so that your allies know what to scream in their faces whenever they croll out from there rocks.
European Culture is also the product of interchange with the non-Western world, almost as much as American culture is.   I got to say, as a white British person, I don't understand why Europeans are so scared of the outside. We're absurdly powerful, militarily, economically, and culturally.
Saying that India, China and Peru is soooo diverse and that it's made up of different ethnic groups is like saying 5th century Britain was diverse because it was made up of Angles, Saxons, Jutes, Picts and Welsh. All pasty white tribes. I don't think anyone in the alt-right would be against a Britain of that kind or an America made up of Poles, Italians, Germans and Britons  We're not arguing that cultures and languages will remain the same forever. We're saying the rate at which they have changed over the past half century is not natural and is unprecedented.   "It takes a lot more than a couple million immigrants to kill a culture". Visit Barking in London and tell me if you feel like you're in England and tell me how much English culture is prevalent, you're like to not hear a single word of English spoken. The entire East end of London was home to a unique people and culture which now doesn't exist anymore thanks to immigration. This is just one example. It's hard to explain this to people ( especially Americans ) who don't know what it was like here just 20 years ago.  Your country is a complete cultureless, soulless fuck up because it's diverse. America isn't some grand fucking ideal the rest of the world must strive to emulate. If you want multiculturalism then fine, but stop telling the rest of us we must want the same.
"My country is the most multicultural on Earth?" Eh... maybe. But you could easily argue that Brazil or Indonesia rightfully deserves that title.
you crack me up so very much. you present all of your points with such articulation and sincerity while also being hilarious and snarky. always a joy to see your videos in my sub box. :)
Very pleased about the Dick hitting it. Very pleased
AHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHH I LOVE YOU ( i have just clicked on the video and not watched it yet but aaaahhhh)
Isn't rock music and white thing
Who knew reason could be so sexy?
Out of all people on the left you decided to feature this hbomberguy idiot, who always resorts to mockery instead of arguments. Just why?
Fantastic video! And yeah, maybe its worth it not to take white nationalists and their ilk at their word when they talk about rationality being what drives their ideology. Like with the vast majority of conspiracy theories and self-delusions, it just isnt about fact or logic, its a very emotional position deep down, its things they WANT to believe in. They're not just wrong, they are scared, its bigotry as a defense mechanism. They will just talk about "facts" and "arguments" a lot because they like to identify to the idea of being a rational person, they've convinced themselves that they have some rational high ground, but its just a delusion, there is really nothing more to it. Arguing with them based on facts is kind of a waste of time, they just don't *really* care.
your songs give me life XD XD please do more!!!
wow... it's really generalizing, but I never thought I'd meet a (intersectional?) that actually constructed arguments. Although I may disagree with you (not as much this particular video,but I suspect other videos) I find your videoes quite enjoyable! subscribed!! Hoping to get my opinions challenged
Another excellent video.
You should have a serious talk with a etno-nationalist. Would be interesting to listen to.
Love the video as always. I love the featured youtubers too!
"Old Norse was destroyed by the 'one world government, all people are equal' concept."   Holy shit, how can these people be so stupid, does the alt right not  know what language evolution is?   For those curious, old norse wasn't destroyed by Marx, or black people, it just evolved and  became the Scandinavian languages (Swedish, Icelandic, Norwegian, etc.). languages evolve naturally, and inevitably will, even without external influences.
Probably one of your best so far CP
Sorry if me calling you daddy in every comment ever is annoying, wouldn't want to objectify you, contra. I'm just an annoying edgy teenage girl and this is how I like to expres myself.
Easily the best video so far!!
I waited until the leather dominatrix moment to upvote       it was worth it
it's all about modernity.
Youtube needs more catty leftists
the production value of your videos keeps going up. although i fall into the ''punching natzees'' category when it comes to how to deal with white nationalists and neo-nazis i always enjoy you dissecting their ''arguments'' and psyche. keep up the good work. also i love hbomberguy!
3>
all of a sudden hbomberguy
Hey contradaddy, if you would make ASMR video's, I would watch the shit out of them.  Forreal though, I've been showing your video's to all my friends and they love you! You deserve more subscribers and I won't stop sharing your videos till atleast 1 million subs!  Have a great day man!  Love from The Netherlands.
This channel, and the emerging youtube left, needs more popularity. I usually avoided political videos on youtube, because the youtube 'political' community was a bunch of right wing zealots who claimed that they were rational.
was that Hbomberguy? Did you two collab or was that a clip for a video of his?
I think about this a lot: I listen to black metal and technical death metal like, all the time. And it can sometimes be tough to avoid all the racist and nationalist black metal acts out there. But black metal and death metal, dominated though they might be by white people, owe everything to black American music culture. There would be no metal without blues and rock 'n roll. And tech death in particular owes a lot to jazz. The best, most brutalest music in the world owes everything to multiculturalism, and the real irony is all these nationalists in bands like Grand Belial's Key and Peste Noire, who are so fucking against mixing cultures. Bitch, your music is the result of culture mixing.  I realize this rant has very little to do with anything, but I just had to get it out.
AMAZING. Very well done!
I want to see screenshots of converts. Any chance of that?
First and foremost; The Golden One can't spell for shit. You are but a God.
huh muslim is a minority group with 1.7 billion people??? Those are facts I didn't know
Shit I want that SS lingerie. But I'm German and people could misconstrue it, if I'd walk through the streets dressed like that :(
MAXIMUM CUUCKHOOOOLDRY
Hey, gutes Deutsch! Hast du das einfach phonetisch gelernt, oder sprichst du wirklich ein wenig Deutsch?
I hit the like button as soon as I saw your outfit.
It's like Christmas each time you upload a video. A wonderful mixture of entertainment and thought provoking information. Nice to hear HBomberguy too, fans of his directed me to your videos. :)  Checking out Shaun and Jen now!
Any drag tips, Contra?
"All cultures always change" believes in cultural appropriation being bad, hypocrisy much?
So off-topic, but what is your opinion of the taking (or re-acquiring, depending on your opinion) of white farmers land in countries like Zimbabwe?
Man, I will never cease to praise the musical scores of your videos....
That is cool that you gave a shout out to Shaun and Jen.  I've been following that channel since he did the first Everything Wrong With CinemaSins video.  It's also the only other channel I support on Patreon besides this one.
The probably saddest thing with the alt right is that they cry and cry over their culture being lost, but when having to define what their culture is they refer to whatever culty shit they believe the norsemen were really like. What do they wanna do in their white utopia? Force kids to learn norse and sacrifice their shitty anime pillows to Odin?
In b4 trolls come...
Contrapoints, your German is really good compared to how most Americans spell it. Mad respect.
(((You are but a dog, and I am your master.)))  the alt right meme is dead this will be replaced by something diametrically opposed in no time cuck great video as always  Gut gemacht, Lederhosen.
They'll be convinced by boots! Speaking of halls, have you heard of "Hall Sex"?  "Hall Sex" is; When love is new, sex is not restricted by rooms, kitchen, laundry, tickles on the toilet, all rooms are playgrounds. 3yrs in it is restricted to the lounge & bedroom with the odd time in the kitchen. By 7yrs is it restricted to the "Hall" - Where you pass your partner & say "Fuck You!" & they say "Fuck You Too!".
You know I feel an opportunity was missed by not dressing up as an Italian.... maybe Hbomber guy could lend you his Mario costume, after cleaning it first.
Dat nazi whisperer ASMR tho.
Literal feminazi ContraPoints wins the Internet!
nobody speaks old norse any more. Yeah beacause langauge change overtime, the Danish langauge today is not the same as it was 200 hundred years ago.
Dein Deutsch ist ziemlich gut.(-:
09:29 "Their genetic makeup was altered over generations of rape." Thank you so very much for pointing this out. These white nationalists who are so afraid of having their precious white race and culture "defiled" by having black or brown men sleeping with white women have no fucking clue what sort of, as they would call it, "race cuckoldry" black people had to go through in American History and still their culture didn't "vanish".  Your German is not bad btw.
thank you. i've found someone who's singing is worse than mine.
I always get so suprised because it doesn't seem to be anything you CAN'T do. Also, liked the video. I'm swedish and laughed out loud at the comments. I guess my country is doomed
FUCK ALL NAZIS. WE FUCKED YOU ONCE AND WE WILL DO IT AGAIN.   Also, you look ravishing CP. Wish  I looked as good in a corset.
That Golden Boy comment! I love that anime-esque, rivalry with yaoi undertone relationship Contra and Golden Boy have.
I'm but a dog. A dirty, naughty dog.
would you mind taking voice lessons from an old time busker like me?  My preferred units of payment are oats, whiskey, and unrelenting dejection and heartbreak.
Interesting: how do you feel about islam and sharia in the west ? 'Paris immigrant riots' ? would you like to see the destruction of western 'patriarchy' ? does that men the end of the western 'system' the end of western civilisation ? Genuine questions.
hope this manages to get through to somebody.  signed - an otaku shit weasel
this is your best video so far
I can't believe you had Japanese consultants for this video.
As I'm a linguistics nerd, this video makes me very moist.
2:19 The "Ich" is not pronounced as "Ish". The "ch" in German is pronounced like the "ch" in "Loch Ness Moster".  Good video. Besides your refugee claims concerning Germany. Try reading the BKS.
Hi Contrapoints. I don't know if you read my comment from your last uploaded video (the one about the Catholic traditionalist), it was about how I'm perhaps one of your few religious fans (a liberal and open-minded 'not a true' Christian, as most fundies would call me *eyes roll*) and how I thought the Catholic Traditionalist might have a Madonna-Whore Complex. This Complex/Dichotomy is very common among religious fundies and fanatics, from my own observance of how they talk about sexuality, sex and women, and from own my research on these matters (I do a lot of research, from psychological to literary).
Where did all this production quality come from? It's like leftist magic.
As a white European, I don't know if I'd personally want to live in a white European ethno-state. I think I'd personally rather live in a society with like-minded people, a stable democracy and good career prospects. But I do support the ethno-state idea.  I think if that's how a significant group of population want to live then they should go for it. If that makes them happy then cool, if living in a diverse country makes you happy, then cool. I couldn't really care so long as they're happy, the problem is only when people try push their societal ideals onto others. Plus, if these two groups of people were separated everyone would probably live in a country that better represented them anyway. The right wouldn't have to worry about another Obama, and the left wouldn't have to worry about another Trump.  I guess my question to you would be why you feel the need to push diversity on those who don't want it? The Japanese seem happy with their immigration policy, so it really confuses me why you would oppose it? Perhaps I've just been listening to too much of that scare monger Sargon of "fucking" Akkad, but don't you think it's wrong to push your personal ideological beliefs onto a society just because that's your personal beliefs? And are the alt-right not guilty of doing exactly the same thing?
Wow your German was way to understandable for someone speaking it for the first time! Viel besser als die meisten Amerikaner. :)
There's a monologue from Welcome to Night Vale that I've always felt captured this sort of idea very well. (Not coincidentally that episode was also about the idea of sudden mass immigration)  "When confronted with someone whose “normal” is not our “normal,” we are forced to confront the most frightening prospect of all: that there is no such thing as “normal.” Just the accidental cultural moment we happened to be born into, a cultural happenstance that never existed before, and will never exist again.  Our idea of “normal” is a city built on sand. For instance, for us, our city is literally built on sand and this is our “normal.” We resist difference because it requires we acknowledge that the culture we grew up with as “normal” is just a momentary accident. It requires we accept that the world we were born into will never be the same as the world we die in. The longer we live, the more we become interlopers, even in our home towns. But, if we’d let it happen, also, the more we will learn."
While I generally hold the same point of view on this as you regarding the advancement of culture (despite having a differing view of how social constructs really function and their utility), I would never make the comment that you made at 10:28.  Everyone is entitled to demand whatever they want.  It is up to opponents of their position to push back with their own demands.  When someone tells me that anyone is not entitled to <say> whatever, I can't help but choke on my disgust towards the mindset that would force dissenting opinions to be quiet, no matter how stupid.
You should chat with Sargon or give him a makeover,maybe both
This has no right to be so god damn fantastic.
One of the things that I think White Nationalists miss is that White pride is a thing, we just don't call it that. We call it Irish Pride, British Pride, Italian Pride, German Pride and such.  This also ties into the question of "What is White Or European Culture" that I wanna ask white nationalists. Because I can't tell you what it is unless you can be more specific.  Also Black Pride, Latino Pride, Irish Pride and such are rooted in "were awesome, here's all the awesome stuff we have done as a culture." White Pride seems  to be based in "we are going to lose everything we have to the not us."
were the comments read by the1Janitor?
Good video but your German sucks though  ( ͡° ͜ʖ ͡°)
Coughlan is still alive?!!
That's some decent german.
Existential dread is a bitch, I can attest to that.... maybe we need to bring back the men's mythopoetic movement or something. I must have an old copy of Iron John around here somewhere.....or we'll just stick them in a room somewhere with beer and classic rock, and give them old cars to fix up. And a sign on the wall that says "Your father did love you, he just didn't like to say it out loud."
you are (objectively speaking) the best youtuber at the moment, hands down.
Man the costume budget of Contrapoints is reaching Key & Peele level
Pretty good german there. Kudos!
Racialism is just another echo of wishing for a better past that never really existed.
with the number of white nationalists there are out there, cant they make a kick starter or something and buy some island and live there as their state and see how their experiment will go
HBOMBERGUY :D :D
like for Dick cameo
My Goddess, My muse, my love!!! Contrapoints is life!!!
These just keep getting better and better.
I recommend a pop filter for you mic, btw! Loved the video
Im getting Violet Chachki vibes from your dominatrix Nazi costume. .....You ever watch Rupauls Drag Race?
God damn it, my face hurts from smiling so much
Holy shit this show keeps on getting better and better
Your german is quite good! Nice :)
I love you ContraPoints
First and foremost:  You are but a dog, and I am your master. Secondly, lotta good points here presented hilariously as usual 👌👌👌 keep up the good work
You are good at this making video thing.
Holy shit! This is one of best videos yet!
How do you fund your ever expanding collection of kinky outfits?
Perfect approach. You can't get the alt-right to listen to facts. They don't care. So what you've done here is argue on values, showing how contradictory their ideals and fears really are.
A Shaun and Jen video and a contrapoints in one day? you spoil me youtube.
Top Ten Anime openings.
Don't criticize Japan unless you want some of the worst Otakus spamming you with apologetics and troll comments. God, do I know.
Schönes Deutsch, schönes Kostüm Frau Sturmbandführerin :)
this is brilliant. thanks so much.
(•_•) ENGAGE  ( •_•)>⌐■-■ MAXIMUM  (⌐■_■) CUCKOLDRY
Haaai
What sort of mic are you using?
10/10
Ｄａｍｎ，　ａｅｓｔｈｅｔｉｃｓ　ａｒｅ　ｏｎ　ｐｏｉｎｔ．
Woo! New ContraPoints! Your penchant for variety is brilliant and we love you for it :)  The "alt-right" have been born from the ignorance and appeal to wealth that so many in the media and on the internet have fallen into. By treating discussion of race, gender, sexuality as though it were on an equal talking point with genocide and Nazism, by allowing "skepticism" to focus entirely on trying to prove the lack of value of feminism and other social movements, by ignoring any critical thinking and reasoned discussion of the definition of left and right, a gap in political airtime has been created for the far right to re-emerge, shake off the image of overt problems through it's connections to religion and racism with a dust off and a new face, and threaten political stability.   As many big YouTuber's have joined the war on "PC culture" and "feminism", and thus lowered the standard of political discussion to reaction videos and non-arguments, all for the pursuit of extra viewers and ultimately money to survive in a capitalist market, the discussion of political topics has become so atrocious that a movement with seemingly no structure, no real end goal, no actual deviation from the concepts of fascism and ultra-capitalism, and an inherent, intrinsic need to loathe and lash out at those around them, has been born. And using the need of so many to reinforce their racism, sexism, homophobia, transphobia and the like with abuse, insults, and discriminative actions, the far right old boys can re-emerge, and capitalize on their anger with new political power and presence.  With all that said, your channel makes me have faith that one day YouTube can be a better place, and that discussion can be improved in the future. Keep it up :)
i hear dicks voice 😍 this video is so good all my chakras are spinning. I'm aroused. 
Contra stole my boots. 😉
02:10 -> Nice body, ashame you're a zionist slave to the ethnics.
Damn, you can speak German and Japanese, pretty impressed.
First the skull boy and now Contradaddy. Thanks a bunch, sick day looking a bit brighter
Is that a Susan Sto Helit wig? You read the Discworld books? If not, you totally should. Edit: just realised that's not a black streak of hair, it's a feather! I'm a dummy. You should still give Discworld a go regardless. (how did anime get so popular with right wing dinguses? I'm guessing it's the prepubescent minge? I'm wondering how many white supremacist creeps I might have accidentally bumped to when I went to anime cons in my youth?) Also THIRD.
you literally just get more and more frightening to look at.
Nothing like a healthy bit of Dick at the start of a video.
Nazi SK Asmr is absolutely 110% not what i expected. Not ONE BIT.
Shit I'm early.  There isn't a clusterfuck of stupidity in the comments.
That opening is amazing!
Dein Deutsch ist zumindest nicht ganz furchtbar ;)
They say white nationalists can't be convinced with reasons, and I sort of arrived at that conclusion myself while working on this video. Maybe they can be convinced by jokes, memes, anime, song, dance, and guitar solos?
:D
first
