4chan isn’t a good example of a pro free-speech site, 8chan is somewhat better.
Well, now Im triggered. I can't read lips in English so well as I thought I could so I lost nearly all of the delicious obscenity. damn!
Contrapoints, can you tell me which are the largest financial contributors to your propaganda channel? thanks man
The left, having lost it's support base in working class people because all their jobs are now gone over seas, are now nothing more than a bunch of ideologues and cultural Marxist snobs who want to impose their ideas onto everyone because they think they occupy the right position on everything.The left are totalitarian dictators wanting to control speech and thought.Anything outside their ideas is deemed dangerous extremism when in fact it is the left who are true extremists.The left want a dominant global mono culture where new ideas and debate are non existent.A mono culture where dissent is against the law.
>does american left hate free speech yes you do ,you defended safe space and dont like different opinions to be near you and you dont want people to express their opinions cuz you deem its too "offensive" thats the whole video
Sometimes I think the best way to handle these problematic “speakers” and trolls, is to just make sure the venue is completely devoid of any sort of audience. This way, the message is sent that they haven’t got a platform AND they won’t even have the ammunition of “PrOtEsToRs RuInEd My FrEe SpEeCh” that they go on and on about after the fact, nor will they be able to play the victim or further entrench themselves and others due to the false belief that “the enemy” is attacking them because they’re onto something. They will just have to deal with the fact that no one WANTED to attend, and that they simply weren’t welcome.
I get the feeling ( this is my opinion here)   that some people feel like, if everyone was really rough and rude with everyone, the world would be stronger for it.  And I FEEL  like people wanna think so, so they can justify all the injustice and rudeness and agression they experienced in their own life.   And while it's true that overcoming an ordeal in your life CAN make you stronger, those kind of situations are meant to happen in your life one way or another we don't need to create them at every opportunité.  It's true we need some to face hardship and step out of our confort zone  in our life to grow but we also need shitload of love, respect and acceptance ~
What the f**k happened at the end? 🤣🤣🤣
Dave Rubin is the embodied straw man of the perspective being critiqued in this vid. I'd like to see a response to nuanced and genuinely left leaning thinkers like Jonathan Haidt (see: The Coddling of the American Mind)
Left wing “indoctrination” is taking a sociology course and learning other people live lives different than your own
Yes they do.
I saw a lot of Ivysaurs in that stack of cards. Finally, a woman who I can relate to.
So, I thought this highly valued universities in the US are usually privately run on money from donations, fees and sponsorship. I am not sure who sponsors these universities but I guess it might be sole personnels, because that is for sure that no company or business owner today would want to sponsor something that is not following a basic code of conduct and code of ethics. Shouldnt there also be a whistleblower process at universities to report such actions? Anyway the best thing to do is shine light on these things cause the more publicity issues related to racism at university has the faster it will reach sponsors. When sponsors are not happy, trust me, the school will start to fire those teachers. But if it never gots high publicity nothing will change sadly.
The issue is that what counts as hate speech seems to be subjective.
I am greek and all of my life I had to listen to stories about the brilliance of ancient Athenians who invented democracy and blah blah blah... If I was sitting on a piece of marble all day while slaves did everything for me, I too would have had great ideas. Plus if you actually READ the shit they wrote you will understand that 80% of their "observations" are actually false (like for example Aristotle claiming women had fewer teeth than men) but people seem to only remember the 20% they were  luckily and by utter chance right about...
Pretty good video. A bit too much 4chan maybe,) Didn't actually know what exactly safe spaces were before.  Now for freedom of speech: I don't think Dave is that smart, either. That being said, i'm a fan of Jonathan Haidt and some others. The problem is that some people seem to try to expand these safe spaces to entire campuses or further. In this respect, derogating all others or offending religious or others, is just to alienate others. Now i'm not saying the right doesn't do those. They behave similarly. It's just that currently on the left people are currently  tolerated doing it. And Antifa has proven to do this even to moderate people by labeling them as alt-right. People are becoming more vulnerable and that's a problem. Trigger warnings and expanding safe spaces are just a symptom for this, though... and we need to try to improve peoples resilience... which is hard by the time people are at uni.
Welcher? How very dare you!
Yeah, even as a generally conservative person, I think Milo is a dipshit and probably has little to add to a college campus. But actual speakers with substantive ideas that aren't calls to violence, which would be illegal, shouldn't be uninvited. The best disinfectant for bad ideas is a public forum where they can be interacted with and disproven if necessary.
Was waiting for you to drop an Uno card or something when placing all those pokemon cards lol
My problem with trigger warnings is (speaking from my psychological standpoint) anything can be a trigger. The word father cqn trigger something, the word vagina can, maybe also frog. I understand that you need some save spaces, that's alright, but there shouldn't be trigger warnings everywhere, since then people would try to avoid the uncomfortable and that's poison for living a life if you got any kind of anxiety (blood and syringe are exceptions, because people with serious fear about it just faint, so you can't use desensitization). If you ever experienced anxiety, you know it's just getting better if you face the fearful trigger, otherwise you can't live a functional life.  Tl;Dr: save spaces are necessary if limited, but trigger warning should be used carefully (ironic to say it like that ^^) Enjoyed the video, thanks for that :)
That cucumber looked kinda fragile do be careful to not allow it to leave stray bits inconveniently in it's wake
If you hate trigger warnings I’ve got a cool trick! Just keep reading cause it has nothing to do with you!
WHO LET YOU BE A PROFESSOR
Contra Points be like " Some speech is  more equal than others.. hh whats that Google is censuring us? Wththththt t4esedsd!!"
SATIE YES
A lot of what you say hits home. But there are times when the idea of banning specific rhetoric from forums leads to the creation of an echo chamber where other ideas can't be heard. This is very damaging to the rhetoric in the forum, which grows without understanding exactly what it is opposed to. Yes, there can be a forum for socialist ideas. But if you ban basically any comment that disagrees with your ideas, you end up with a rhetoric that is divorced from reality.  It's important to draw that line, and it's important to constantly reaccess that line because if that doesn't happen, we damage our own ideas. None of this is to say that doing or not doing this violates the idea of free speech, it's about taking the pulse of the people while taking about ideas that involve them.
Goddamnit. "Who is the triangle man?" I had no idea what was going on in that moment until I saw Staryu. Ugh! Well played!  Anyway, loved the video. I'm excited to go through the rest.
Negro is the Spanish word for black. Are Spanish words suddenly offensive?
It's a little weird now that Mac came out as gay, lol.
We (don’t know what that means) love you.
Did...Did she just open this by discussing the philosophical merits of an Its Always Sunny If Philadelphia episode? Subscribed.
This had me crying at the end
This is fucking fantastic, and you are a wonderful picture of why I love America.  USA, USA, USA!
“Good-faith conservative” is a contradiction in terms. Indeed, they have NOTHING to say that hasn’t been demonstrably disproven. Therefore, they have nothing that should be allowed to say.
We don't deserve you, thank you.
This was linked from Reddit (breadtube and some other sub). I watch your stuff regularly and have for about 8 months, but holy cow were you a different person in 2017! Stay awesome Natalie!
I had one professor give us a "trigger warning"......... she was teaching us about trigger warnings.
Implies that bronies can't post on 4chan when really they have their own private board...
The left has done nothing but try to censor things, change language, and even make it ok to look at scantily clad little boys. it isn't even about free speech anymore.
*First time viewer, last time viewer. This is total marxist crap.*
you may be  restoring my faith in humanity. well done, insightful, direct but soft spoken in love and humor. outstanding, young lady. inspiring and on point. #LLAP thank you CP and blessings n peace to you and yours. never be silenced. never surrender. #rockon #resist and peace to you, fellow traveler. you are part of what makes america actually great. rave on and be loud. you should run for senate or something. seriously.  one love
Bill Maher is like the #1 classical democrat complaining about this
You're famous now!  The left is the KKK, they love the pedo's and queers so why does it matter if they hate free speech?  Not many care about a dirty racist, violent liberal unless they hang by door knob, then we dance...for the children.
Lol, Milo was not deplatformed by right wingers. But by Twitter, Facebook etc. Get ur facts straight
The world who rejects JESUS CHRIST pushes anything against the Bible, and suppresses and censors the TRUTH.
I started watching the YT Skeptic Community at least 5 years ago and probably a lot longer than that when it was pretty much still a bunch of atheists railing against the rantings of some Christian.  Then they started with this anti SJW jargon.  At first it seemed reasonable and I had seen some of it when going to certain Left leaning sites.  Once considered this group or that group has a greater odds of a certain event happening to them to it being an absolute and it always happening to them.  By the 2016 Primaries it was so evident they jumped the shark, ie the YT Skeptics.  There were so many copycats who may have been a fan of someone who then thought hey I can just take their talking points and make my own videos creating an echo chamber.  See other people are saying it.  Umm, yeah because you are literally just repeating what they said and then using it as confirmation what is being said must be true.  I am firmly on the Left no matter how much some on the Left piss me off for acting like one of the crazies.  8Value has me as a Libertarian Socialist while Political Compass has me as a Left libertarian and every time someone on the Right challenges me to my beliefs by having me take that damn test again my dot just keeps moving more left and down.  I consider myself a Secular Humanist.  I am an Atheist.  I am much in line with the Democratic Socialist platform.  That being said and back to jumping the shark I stopped seeing these same people as being actual skeptics because they were not even questioning themselves.  They seemed to have no understanding of the Paradox of Tolerance and the Paradox of Freedom.  If I Mr Libtard (I am thinking of getting shirt that says Libtard and Proud for 2020) have total freedom then this means without repercussions I can rape, pillage, and burn your village down.  So where is your freedom from not being raped, pillaged, and having your village burnt down?  When I first got online in the mid 90s it was hailed as a libertarian utopia.  Small problem.  Boards then were nothing like they are now.  No Admins, no moderators.  If you responded to a thread it bounced up to the top (Not always).  What came next was Blue Berry Muffin.  That is if you did not want that topic to be discussed then you just posted a new thread with a blue berry muffin recipe. It would push all threads down. So you kept on posting recipes till the thread you did not want to be discussed was on page two which most people stay on page one.  It became real annoying.  This was an environment taunted to be total freedom but it was not.  Discussion were easily squashed by a few who seemed to feel they owned that particular channel.  What eventually happened were the gates.  Gates went up with rules of conduct and we had moderators.   Now the Muffin Gang got all pissy about freedom being trampled on etc.  Guess what happened though?  MORE people started to have conversations.  Weird.  So restricting certain actions actually caused more freedom for others.  Odd.
so in simple terms -give me my safe space cause i need more free speech than you because we are not equal,so i will try and restrict your speech cause i dont live in reality.
I was trying to follow the path of Caleb Cain, from the infamous NYT article on how he got "radicalized" online by the right but then saved himself by finding your site (among others) and returning back to where he came from politically, center left.  Some radical.  Of course, his "Prodigal Son" return to the fold wasn't acknowledged until about paragraph 23 in typical NYT biased fashion.  The thing is you actually come across as rational and thoughtful but if you honestly believe that the right tries to censor or limit speech more than the left, I have to disagree even if I also agree that some UNIVERSAL standards should apply to BOTH sides. By what the SJWs like to call my "lived experience," I have seen far more examples of the left trying to squelch conservative thought than the other way around. And not just by goofs like Milo.  At colleges, it even extends to thoughtful thinkers like Heather McDonald, Thomas Sowell and others.  The ratio of sites censored or deplatformed on the right is far higher than on the left even when the sites commit equal violations of the sites' TOS. I don't object to standards.  I object to double standards and censorship by political bias, left or right. Fair enough?
*opens video* Yes you do *closes video*
"The human mind is not very rational. People pick up most of their beliefs from the culture around them, and often times people seem to believe things for really self-interested reasons that have nothing to do with what is true or what the strongest argument." Profound quote
Yes they do
Trigger warnings shouldn't be a thing neither should safe spaces. Your arguments didn't sway me one bit I was waiting for a good point and it never came. The idea that you need a safe space to get people not to question your gender is redic. If you're honest with yourself you know the vast majority of people don't give a fuck and most places you go people aren't going to question Shit. Even if you go to conservative areas the vast majority of people don't give a fuck that you're trans. Freedom of speech is clearly under threat look at the people they deplatformed. Most of them aren't hurting anybody stop advocating for surpressing people's ideas that don't agree with yours.
I don't think Milo should be deplatformed neither should Alex Jones or any of the other people who got kicked off platforms for wrong think. You only should be kicked of for threats of violence or liable. They literally did nothing that CNN doesn't do. You should be able to say the N word and people should be able to talk shit to you for it. This video is way too long, you coulda just said you're for silencing opinions you don't like n end the video.
looks like such a bad program.
You are brilliant!!!!!!! Thank you!
No, these are not questions WE should be discussing. These are questions that each university should answer and decide for themselves. You need to distinguish between private and public. It's not up to ''us'' to decide what rules 4chan or Harvard should have. That's why private property is so important, and central government decisions should be limited to only those that require uniformity, otherwise you create chaos and instability, because when the central government imposes decisions, it means 51% impose their will on the others, and that means there are always going to be minority groups opposing that. In the private market, both sides can have what they want, and a private property owner has the right to decide what rules they want for themselves. If you don't like 4chan, you can go someplace else, we all get what we want, but if you don't like what the government says, you have no choice but to wait 4 years and hope your politician gets elected. All public universities should be privatized, that would fix the problem.     Also, you are right about people not caring about facts. I just wish you would apply this understanding to your view of history as well. People first form opinions, and then look for ways to validate them. If i believe in something, i would want to find other people who believe in the same thing so they can reinforce me. The idea that some bozo from 2K years have influenced the US FF is ridiculous, as i have explained to your in my email. It is simply not true. There is also the issue of groupism and wanting ''your'' group to win, people like that care very little about facts, they just want their group to win. When your opinion isn't based on facts, facts can't change it either.
rhubarb mead makes the emptiness less annoying. I  make it. 24%ABV  You have a great way of speaking.  Smiling, I can not add to what you have made clear sense of ... Thank you. George.
Unbleeped version for Patrons?
Love letter to Bill Maher
I must say I was sadly dissapointed that you dismissed people like Milo as "having no value other than kek trolling the libs", as it ignores the central argument. Yes, Milo himself is a troll and provocateur - but he has raised interesting points for discussion when actually put on the line to talk. To dismiss him, Ben Shapiro, Peterson or whatever provocative speaker as just a hateful troll is a bit counter-productive and worse - untruthful, imo.   There was also no mention of progressive acts like asking all white people to leave campus (forgot the uni. Bret Weinstein) and others I can't think of atm. I was hoping to hear a rebuttal as to why these are justifiable acts. (Although you did mention not condoning the Berkeley riots)   Spot on when it comes to trigger warnings/safe spaces though. I'm 100% confident I make these jokes to be a dick
I like cucumbers. They're so crunchy!
This was pretty much summed up by Unikitty on the Lego Movie: "NO sadness, NO negativity, and NO prohibitions!" "You said the word no like 10 times" "And also NO consistency!"
hhhhhhhh the last part is so creepy and I like it
What bothers me about the railing against safe spaces is that it always comes from people for whom almost all of society is a permanent safe space.
I don't get the part at the end with the cards
You seem to dodge the basic assertion of Hitchens, ect. That is keep it simple. You know...speak freely up until calling for anyone's death or to break the law
The short answer is the majority looks away or is ignorant to an influential minority of the left that behaves like the Westboro Baptist Church
Hotshot sucks, use raid.
"Don't tell black people to toughen up" - I think you mean black person, not black people. Prime example of your logical inconsistencies and inability to see people as individuals.
This is a dreadful take. You make these videos so long and droning and people get lulled into a kind of weird sleep and don't notice how many logical jumps there are.  It's very clear that there's a huge difference between stopping spam (or telling bronies to keep their brony posts to a different part of the website) and an ideological restriction of speech.  You're serving as a mouthpiece for the oppressive mainstream pseudo left. Look at the grievance studies. If that doesn't prove that some viewpoints are accepted at higher levels of education and some aren't then I don't know what does. People who have experienced this cannot see it any other way. It's a fact. It's right in front of you. I think you have your foot sort of in the door of being a reasonable person so you have to denounce some of the outright nonsense of the left for the sake of your own self worth but it's very clear that when it comes down to it you kind of agree with these people but just don't really want to say it. The world is a completely stifling place to be at the moment, free speech is absolutely being throttled. Wake up.
This was so great
one of my classmates asked if there would be trigger warnings when approaching topics such as rape and torture in literature and a teacher was completely clueless about what a trigger warning even was... and comparative literature courses are as leftist as you could get, so the threat of trigger warnings  going against free speech in academia are immensely exaggerated
Great ending
You are a boy.....
Free speech absolutism is non-sense... It would mean letting ISIS speak... That leads to a lot of deaths. You can't have freedom with out responsibility.
I'm screaming at the intro when you said Lao Shi 😂😂😂
Okay what even is a classical liberal? I've only heard it used by prager u, and I'm pretty sure they don't know what it means.
Freedom = FREE DOOM
Hang on though, I'm not sure this is a fair representation.   You seem to be arguing that a lack of rules in a market place of ideas like a university is a bad thing. But I think that's something most people, libertarians and lefties alike agree on. Sure, if he's swearing on stage or insulting an audience member get him off in accordance with the regulations of the debate. You can set the terms before hand you know, and people can choose whether to participate. Especially in a place like a university.   I think it's simply the fact you can't have a *civil discourse* on the ideas/issues that people find distasteful. I have heard that student unions in particular have a nasty habit of laying down the iron fist before even reading the terms of debate. How do you moderate what idea is "acceptable" to discuss or not without having a bias? You can't, no one can.   This refusal to host certain issues or ideas can result in a resentment for the institution or worse a build up of the unknown problem that people are trying to discover through discourse. I firmly believe this is an attitude that needs to change if we want the 21st century to age well at all.
I watched this and the other one. Never saw you actually address people getting straight up deplatformed. You said that you also think sjw's shouting down or preventing people from speaking is wrong. Surely deplatforming is a step up from that? Do you also ignore the fact that both of these actions are deemed heroic much more than they are deemed problematic by the left? I don't think the main gripe is about being labelled a racist or whatever, disingenuous or in bad faith as that might be. Come to think of it they're probably totally sincere about it since anyone right of fucking Eisenhower is now called a nazi (really paving the way for real nazis btw). Anyway, that's just insults and as an actual defender of free speech let me say that you can call me names till you run out of breath. My problem is when you actually prevent people from speaking. It's a pretty easy line to draw and your argument sure seems desperate to dance around it. I never had a problem with safe spaces and trigger warnings. If you want to look desperately uncool then it's your right to do so.
tl;dw yes
Yeah, trigger warnings... You know, it used to be that only people with severe drug addictions or who had gone through something emotionally devastating were considered as having nerves fried enough to be subject to triggers? And not even those drug addicts or barroom gladiators got psychiatrists for their birthdays.    I haven't personally met anyone with one of these, although I've been in my share of hospitals and recovery centers, and I could definitely point out one or two who'd ask for some kind of special consideration, and more than once, to make their day go easier, when in fact there is virtually nothing slowing down their day.   If I didn't know better, I'd think they were all just closeted incels, waiting for the right time to cry about how their babysitter has been fucking one of their cousins.
Milo Yiannopoulos ... Now there is a name that doesn't make it into a lot of small talk.   Milo is a very, very strange case of self-hatred. Obviously, it goes without saying that self-hatred is a bit odd to begin with, but Milo... Holy shit. It occurred to me in 2017, after I'd had my proverbial legs cut out from under me and I was crawling through life while coming to terms I wasn't going to see, hear, or feel shit for any of my personal efforts...and I saw this video concerning MENSA and how people who report having very high intellects often perceive suffering more than do people who report lower IQs. (I'm a geek, so I was careful to not take too much offense.) But it's in that space, I think, where any kind of bigotry or disgust, rational or not, defines something unique to the 21st century... For every Milo Y. I wouldn't doubt there are another 10,000 kids (and older kids) sitting in their house either scraping up the money to take a shit in Milo's mouth, or making ironic jokes between each about why the price is so high.   Mera khata bhagya vidhata.
You should make a video entitled "Soothing 1KHz sine wave 10 hours" (which is the censorship beep sound)
There are only two genders. Some idiot just decided to change the definition. Come up with your own word.
hot shot and & roach germ killer !
You failed to provide a Trigger Warning for those of us who can lip read ..... That foul-mouthed outburst of filth and debauchery towards the end was an outrageous assault upon my poor little mind. I'm going to watch it again, just to be sure that it was as offensive as I think it was.
I have not met a single conservative that actually thinks trigger warnings and safe spaces have anything to do with free speech. They may think they are for pussies, which sure is a bit harsh, but I have never heard the argument that the right thinks these things threaten free speech until today. Hopefully this is not one of their big points.
I dont realy agree. Rules to free speech isnt realy comparable to the free market of ideas.  To examine the 4chan Argument. Yes there are Rules "where you can say what", BUT If you are still permitted to have an open market of ideas, its fine.  /Pol/ for example is Open for political nonsense, it never decides what political view is and isnt allowed. The organizing of topics isnt silencing, its organizing. On the other hand, if a bunch of people complain to a host to not Platform someone you like, then you yourself create an environment where you can be silenced. Who is the arbeiter of what is/isnt fair or tolerable to say? What if social tables turn and suddenly gay speakers are being deplatformed because someone thinks the Idea is harmful. Thats Not how it works. You compared Apples to oranges. Saying "you cant Show ponies on /b/" is irrelevant, because at the end of the day there is still a space for ponies. Where is the space for hategroups? See, Not comparable.  Open Market of ideas: need evidence that it actually works? It has never been a beter time to be alive. Look at Scientology, the Open Market Destroyer it. This trend ist across the board.  Rise of Bad movements: funny you Bring this Up, i myself actually got pushed into a direction i now dont at all like because my criticism wasnt tolerated on the left. The biggest recruitment tool for the right ist actually the left, ask any right learning Person.  I am a rational stable normal Person, and the hostility to an Open Market If ideas actually turned me away from some time. Now i am left leaning again, but only because i realize that not all the rest of us support this childish idea-policing, i can see that someone who isnt as open as i am can quickly get lost and go down the rabithole of righleaning nonsense simply because of this.  Your Arguement isnt very Strong and it compares Limits of free speech or Organisation of free speech with an actual Open Market of ideas, which we should all strive for.
insightful. Thanks
I see trigger warnings the same as any other media ratings, it's fine.  Safe spaces if not misused are fine too.
Triangle man hates person man.  They have a fight triangle wins.
VItality is the milk of human kindness. what what! Trigger warning!: I love those meetings. they are so warm and safe and infantilizing-ly TENURED.
These old videos were so much better I dont know why
Ok but do they?
nice vaporeon. 7:24
Just when I thought I couldn’t be more fond and appreciative of this channel, I find this video and discover than Natalie is a fellow IASIP fan. God. Damn. It.
Freedom is about being able to make your own choices. So total freedom would be having no boundaries to make your choices. The problem is that when choices are infinite your freedom disappears, because there is no reason to chose one option above the other. For example, you go to an ice cream store and the sign outside says there are infinite flavors to choose from... how are you supposed to make a choice? You can't properly decide because choice is infinite so you just choose at random.    To make a well thought-out choice, and for you to have proper freedom, you need at least a boundary. So total free speech is impossible, and if it would exist it would be meaningless.
i luv u i luv u i luv u
Is there an essay form of this video somewhere? And by "essay" I mean written.  I ask because I am trying to share this video with someone and experiencing technical difficulties.
There are definitely those regardless of their political leanings who have issues with free speech. Freedom is an abstract idea different to each individual, but we need to hear eachother.
Fucc you, my earz hert
Comparing freedom of action with freedom of speech. How stupid can you get?
My father knew a girl who, in second grade, watched a video of an African tribe hunting a giraffe. It was a fairly graphic and after leaving the classroom, she fainted.  Many people have things what they simply cannot watch, whether  it's due to past trauma or just not being able to handle it, we should respect those sensitivities. I'm pretty sure no one would tell the girl to just "get over it, it's just a little blood." Unfortunately, a lot of people would say, "You triggered SJW's just want to censor my free speech." right to a rape survivor's face. A trigger warning is same as an epilepsy warning or an NSFW warning.
Love the Satie at the end. Real chef's kiss.
I love the way you are dressed , yes homo!
Basically safespaces are to get a break of trolls and bullies even for a second.
Left hates freedom in general
I would have agreed with this several years ago, but now I believe the notion that something like 'safe space culture', is, in fact, a broader social phenomenon with a potentially corrosive independent logic. There are also sociological arguments to this effect, such that 'victimhood' culture is a new social form comparable to older 'dignity' and 'honour' cultures. I havent investigated this much, and would probably be inclined to cast the net wider, and claim that the safe space culture is actually a product of deeper tendencies within liberalism, rather than a reaction against it, as per the shallow claims of media 'classic liberals'.
when i went to a liberal university with an lgbt safe space it really wasn't a place where you can't say anything offensive or ask awkward questions..... it was just like "please be nice, but we're not going to enforce this at all." People really said whatever the fuck they wanted with no concern for who was in the room and how they might feel about it. Myself included! I was a huge asshole, sometimes on purpose, and no one ever told me to shut up or asked me to leave. It wasn't so much a fortress of PC cuckoldry as it was a regular college lounge with some rainbow flags. One really weird experience I had was being interrogated about my gender transition by a total stranger, which is exceptionally weird considering I'm not trans. I'm still not sure what gender that person thought I was. It was really awkward and kinda inappropriate and absolutely no one told the guy to stop asking weird questions. I don't know what safe spaces these libs have been to that they think it's anti-free speech. A safe space is just a room.
It's interesting to me that the same people who most loudly bellow condemntations of trigger warnings are the same people who would consider it a great sin to not properly warn of content which actually did cause a flashback in a veteran.
"In the meantime, 'gay people not experiencing enough homophobia' is not really striking me as a pressing issue." 😹
Hiiii Natalie :)
where she get that cucumber? asking for a friend
Why is Negro such a bad and offensive word now? It was originally supposed to be the most objective and neutral term to describe black-skinned, predominately African-descended people.
Something that really irritates me is that there's no foolproof way to sort out who has a "reasonable" position and who doesn't... Like, I know nazis and climate change deniers wouldn't be, but there's a lot of conservative positions that, while I disagree with, are kind of in a gray area. What if MY beliefs are unreasonable? How do I know if I'VE gone too far, or a concrete way to know anyone else has? Is life real? What is the spoon? I'm hungry
Oh shit, I know John Cooper
The Abuse of Vegetables will be reported to The Vegan Police 👮‍♀️ lol
If anyone can read lips I would very much appreciate it if you could translate that last part for me and all of us
I am very conservative in one thing only, namely liking videos, and I had never liked as many videos from anyone. Love from Slovenia 🖤
i...... am too high for this intro shenanigans
who is this contrapoint douchebag? it came up on my feed, and she/he/it is so wrong..lol this person is just venting its anger and shifting overton window of whatever it does not like.what a pathetic video.
Colleges don't allow a diversity of view points. This YouTuber loses credibility making such comments
Your assertion that Milo was only censored when he was deplatformed by the right is simply WRONG. I know you made this in 2017, but here in this article in 2016: https://www.insidehighered.com/news/2016/10/21/several-universities-cancel-appearances-conservative-writer-milo-yiannopoulos he had several of his upcoming events canceled. These cancellations were mostly due to "safety and expense" concerns...meaning the fucking safety and expense issues that would be caused by the FUCKING RIOT their SJW students would create if he showed up. So, yeah, those SJW students effectively silenced and deplatformed Milo through the implicit threat of the VIOLENCE they would cause.
Good arms bro.
Fantastic ending 🥒
To start off  Richard Spencer should still not be deplatformed contra he has the right to say his political speech.   4chan has a lot rules as you've presented but is literally still full of nazis not just Nazis there's also communists ,sjws ,trans gays ,black supremacists, asian supremacists if anything having all these rules just gets people to try and test the moderators limit even more as someone who goes there frequently the rules do nothing to stop people from well for example posting anime hentai on /pol/ sure it gets taken down later on in the day but by that time plenty of people have seen it.   Tldr the more you tell people not to do something the more likely they are to do it and the mods are lazy  Also milo wasnt deplatformed from breibart and cpac because of his political speech he was deplatformed for making comments about pro pedophilia to which he later said was because he was making excuses for the sexual abuse he received as a child.  Having a political leaning is a human right.  Trigger warmings dont help people it makes the truama worse and creates a generation of snowflakes and the other problem is that safe spaces and trigger warnings have been hijacked and abused by whiney college kids who use them to suppress others freedom of speech.
Re: trigger warnings, etc. Making provision out of consideration for sensitive audiences is one thing however facing an administrative reprimand for not doing so adequately is entirely different. You can't keep all of the people "safe" from upsetting language all of the time. Is it wise to put rules in place that create the expectation? On paper these things sound reasonable however in practice they have the potential to create an administrative nightmare. An expensive one at that  i.e. lawsuits.
7:50 So I used to teach Philosophy in one of them "shit-hole" African countries. The university had a policy requiring philosophy majors to take semester courses in African Philosophy in the first two years of their degree, and then have it as an optional course thereafter, as a means to encourage more black students to study the subject. Despite this, the department was 100% white, save for a single black grad student (in a country where the population was about 8% white at the time). Once the course became optional, student numbers dropped from the hundreds to single digits, to the occasional double-digits. Read into that previous sentence what you may, hell, even blame it on me for being a terrible TA for the course.   I don't think ContraPoints is right in the suggestion that academic philosophy is overwhelmingly white due to "microaggressions" or implicit racism or whatever. I think there's a deep cultural divide where the more immediate, concrete concerns are prioritized in black cultures, as opposed to more abstract, contemplative concerns. (And please no "that's racist" BS; if you spent most of your childhood worried about your next meal or getting a cup of drinkable water, your mind will be fixated on the concrete too, regardless of the colour of your skin).  Also, why censor "negro"? It's Spanish for "black". Jesus, people...
Should we allow posts about my little pony? Always. (I’m not a hardcore brony I’m just a fan I promise)
Very interesting video! Plus I never before noticed how much Natalie looks like Brittany Spears...
It always kills me that My Little Pony was the hill 4chan decided to die on.
Wow I was looking through pokemon cards while watching this... was not expecting that ending of the video
I loved the “16 year old white kid whose mad he can’t say the n word” because that was 100% me when I was 16
Short answer, yes.
Yes they do
its always sunny is still a great show
I. Think. You. Are. Awesome!
No
Hello, I like your videos, they are interesting, well made and we all can see that you put a lot of effort and tought into them, but I can't agree with a lot of what you say because you have the same problem as the hive mind left wing lost souls, you guys tend to be delusional, completely ignoring data and reality, and to move the goalposts of every issue discussed. :( But I wish the best and that we can all reach understanding and a more ideal life for everyone.
"Gay people not experiencing enough homophobia is not really striking me as a pressing social issue" Damn, you crazy!
I really hadn't thought about this, cuz I did buy into all the the left hates free speech cuz they all want you just to shut up  unless what you have say is nice and agreeable. That idea is not completely unfounded, yelling in order to drown out what the other person is saying is not productive and makes it seem like you have nothing intelligent to say. However you make a very good point about how Dave Reuben does only seem to care to talk about and look into the speech rights of right wing edgelords who don't have any intention of having meaningful discussion to reach a consensus and try & find common ground. Milo seemed like an odd hill to die on, and you are right I didn't hear Dave Reuben loosing his mind when Milo wasn't allowed to speak at big conservative conventions.
The answer to the title : Yes
I love you, but who the fuck are you or any goddamn student body to say who has redeeming qualities?! The circular firing squad will kill the Left. Get your shit together or perish.
New to this.  So from what I can tell from this video and reading some comments is a safe space is basically just a community or area for like-minded people or people sharing a similar identity? i.e, LGBT communities, or a gay bar? So my question is do you believe classrooms should be a 'safe space' from controversial ideas and history/historical literature even if context is clear? Also, who is allowed a 'safe space'? What if white people said they wanted their own safe space on campus? What if black people wanted their own, etc...  And 'trigger warnings' are basically just another term for 'view discretion is advised' and 'graphic image'? I thought a trigger was a medical term for something like PTSD or panic disorder and people were just blowing it out of proportion because they didn't want to be offended or hear an potentially 'problematic' opinion they are not familiar with. I think trigger warnings should just be called discretion. More people would take the concept seriously and it wouldn't be using a medical term interchangeably with offense and disgust.   Liking the channel so far. Looking for genuine question for civil discussion.
Damn, Contra used to have some GUNS.
Ashamed to realise i have actually used "trigger warning" as a joke many times. Not that i do not actually put trigger warning if i know smth i say might actually trigger someone but that i also at the same time use it as a joke is i think evidence that i did it because i wanted to be an asshole. so time to reflect on myself
Good do i know what you mean the human mind is not alway rashional. I am AUTISTIC  there for exstramely Analitacel and rashional in the exstrame. But most people bon't want to here anything that disagree with there view point belief or ideology even if that proven wrong.
Wow your transformation over the years has bin amazing.
all of your videos are like...performance art from another dimension, i LOvE
😂😂🤣🤣 You’re so funny!! I love your videos 😂😂😂
I came here for the Pokémon cards
5:12 Left-wing speakers are disinvited? Has the alt right held violent protests to deplatform them? I'm not aware of any such events happening frequently or happening at all.
American colleges are in no way a safe places... When I was a semester abroad at a American university there was a event pro socialism and communism which was really hard for someone to bear who had a family member killed by a socialist regime...
My Little Pony: Friendship is Magic is a pretty darn good cartoon show, teaching good moral lessons and appropriate for a young audience.
I think I've come up with a solution to this problem. If leftist want the right to stop painting them as a bunch of babies who can't handle adult discourse, here's what you do: Invade rightwing spaces. They don't like gay or minority safe spaces, well then invade THEIR safe spaces. Swagger on down to an NRA meeting and start putting flowers in the muzzles of their guns, go to Christian churchs and start making out with members of your same sex, do the key and peel bit where black people show up to cival war reenactors and heckle the south.  The problem with the left as you've pointed out isn't their ideas, its their ability to SELL those ideas.
Natalie is more of a feminine and ladylike than any GF I've had.....
Oh babe you shouldn't have brought up Daddy Hitch my hormones weren't ready for it
Contra points is way more buff than me
Watching older videos is so cool seeing how much you have grown artistically. Not to mention your confidence and beauty!
Crazy to watch these older videos lol, keep up the good work Nat! Love the content.
The way people treat trigger warnings is really unfortunate. They get 1000x more respect if they're called content warnings. I'm pretty sure it's the word "trigger" itself that brings mockery, given how much SJWs appear to over-react.
My favorite thing about this video is when you refer to “classical liberals” since “American liberals” are not at all the same. The academia in you is leaking out.
11:28 It goes way beyond that though. On youtube alone, your suggested videos are tailored to the topics and perspectives of the videos in your watch history, which leads people to reinforce their current beliefs rather than challenging them through a take on the same topic from another perspective. This way your thinking patterns become fixed to that of a specific ideology and diversity of thought as well as open-mindedness significantly decrease.
I love the finish made my giggle. Thank you for makeing theses video there are challenging to watch but they make me qwestion my own dogmatic belief's
The speech you gave in part IV really resonated with me. Especially the part with the pineapple and the zucchini 😆 but for real, I unfortunately share the same outlook on the direction of our society. At least I can find solace in your videos and in knowing that I'm not alone in that regard.
I will say that I have encountered "Trigger Warning" at least a few times a semester
Ruuuules?! lol
QUEEN OF IMPROVISATION! I died when the cucumber broke and you just worked with it 😭😭😂
Once again, a well nuanced look into a complicated subject, good work, milady. My worry about the use of safe spaces in collages is when people use them to form accepted in groups and ostracize new out groups. I'm a vet who is a bit of a country bumpkin at heart which made it hard for me to talk to some folk in a way that they would listen, even though I'm a progressive who tends to keep my bleeding heart on my sleeve. You did mention the abuse of these safe spaces, so I'm just kinda touching on something you did cover but whatever, here is my two cents.
Piiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiip
Hi nick Where is natalie
@Contrapoint, who is the man in the triangle?? Who's the triangle man? My 301088 not too far from your 211088
<3 hitchens <3 contrapoints
The problem with "safe spaces" is that they're no longer about spaces that an individual can retreat to in order to avoid dealing with uncomfortable ideas and opinions, the problem with "safe spaces" is that people who desire "safe spaces" attempt to project those "safe spaces" into the world around them. It's about declaring classrooms "safe spaces" and college campuses "safe spaces" and then using those self-applied designations to control what *other* people are allowed to think and say wherever *you* happen to be present.  Trigger warnings are also not a problem for the fact that they provide a context for people to approach difficult subject matter, but because they offer people an opt out of confronting difficult subject matter as a part of their education. The problem with "trigger warnings is that they coddle people and suggest that difficult ideas should somehow be placed in a box marked "dangerous."   Like do you think feminist ideas should require a trigger warning? Should queer theory be labeled with a trigger warning? I mean ask the right person and they might say those ideas are "triggering" and I'll admit, that claim might be disingenuous, but what are you going to do, establish a genuousness certifier?
Hi
I'm 100% confident I'm being an asshole for no reason. In all fairness to my asshole self, I only use the terms "safe space" and "triggered" when dealing with people trolling others by using terms like "safe space" and "triggered". Example: "Imagine needing a safe space after being triggered by someone asking for a heads up before a graphic image next time".
The triangle man is the owner of a particularly annoying Pokemon deck, homie
thanks for standing up for the bronies XD
Thank you, Natalie, for standing up for us bronies :')
That white dress looks amazing on you!
I want you to know.   I am a cishet white male and we have the exact same sense of humor.
*in the voice of samuel l Jackson* STANDING OVATION FOR THE MUTHAFUCKIN ENDING 👏👏👏🇺🇸
Protesting Milo and Roosh V in ABQ were by far the most successful protests I've ever been a part of 👍
Hate speech isn't free speech 😄
I think that the trigger warning meme may have originally been meant to draw attention to the presumably humorous statement or picture put after the warning, using the trigger warning to create a sort of anticlimactic effect. I think the focus shifted from what people were putting after the trigger warning to the warning itself. Nevertheless, most people using it now intend to insult this supposed army of SJWs that are invading college campuses (because of whom we all quiver in fear?). Good video though :)
AAAAH!!! What a waste of a shiny Aerodactyl!!!!
As a philly native and someone who generally just loves the research and creativity of your videos, as well as their messages, i love how often you rep always sunny!
The leftist I've known do not seek out safe spaces, they go to the most dangerous spaces that they can find. Spaces where they camp out on the streets, where they get arrested, beaten, hit on the heads with percussion grenades, shot with rubber bullets. They get run over by police motorcycles, they get put in jail with real criminals, deal with prison riots, sit in solitary confinement. They ride freight trains from one protest to another on the streets, risking bulls, train dier gangs, accidents and the elements. They squat in abandoned buildings where the police might bust in any time. They willingly go into spaces that they know might suddenly fill up with tear gas, pepper spray, rubber bullets, not to mention bricks thrown by random crazy people who are attracted to the excitement. They go into spaces where Facists might beat or stab them. They do not call themselves "social Justice Warriors," ever, but if they did, the name would be well earned. They risk their lives, much like soldiers, Heck, some of them were soldiers, veterans of Viet Nam or Iraq who risked theire lives fighting for their country, then came back and risked their lives again, and again, to fight the wrongs that they learned about while at war. They lie in front of trains and have lost legs.  Some, like one man who had already put himself in danger by camping with Occupy in New York, fly to Syria to fight ISIS with the Kurds, (that one got shot and died). Disagree with them if you like, but do not think that they seek out safe spaces. If anything, they tend to go to the opposite extreme, running towards danger like a lover to his beloved. Well, that is the leftist I've known. You may have known people who were different.
Natalie, I love your videos, but god damn is it hard to learn while horny. Shaun-style videos with a dry monotone would be un-horny but then would I feel so smartified? Tough choices
Extra points for looking like Satan from "Passion of the Christ".
*-M O U T H F E E L-*
Hitchens isn't really into free speech. When he gives a speech it's probably really expensive.
I had the same professors in Baylor University, this was 1958, but professors say things like "we'll be talking about sex crimes  today. I know that's a rough subject for some people so if you need to,  you're welcome to step out at any time. I won't ask why." Or, "just to  let you know, these pictures are pretty graphic.
I love you so much you produce fucker
I didn’t like that you used an always sunny clip in your rape culture vid, but this is great. However, you missed the opportunity to use the clip of Mac talking to the Carmen about her penis in your vid discussing “girl penis” and “mouthfeel”
I didn’t like that you used an always sunny clip in your rape culture vid, but this is great. However, you missed the opportunity to use the clip of Mac talking to the Carmen about her penis in your vid discussing “girl penis” and “mouthfeel”
One other thing, is that painting behind you a work of Klimt?
Hurt by the word "Negro"? btw My Cherokee Indian great grandmother's black husband was hanged from a tree.
2:30 im realy confused right now
Does the left hate free speach Answer: yes!
Your films are so lovely. And funny! Lots of love.
brilliant
You are the Person
so what exactly did the professor do again?  okay so, the professor responding to the idea that philosophy is elitest, said even slave women enjoyed the work of epicurus. so can someone please legitimately explain why this was so wrong and micro aggressive?
@8:00 I cannot help but feel that if: 1°) You did not think that mentioning the professor was white and 80 years old was useful to your argument (basically : "the reason there are so few african-americans to be found in law school is because they are mistreated there through racial micro-aggressions adding up", which I think is absurd as a theory) 2°) You would simply laugh at the idea of anyone too weak to endure a word like "negro" being uttered, in a non-threatening non-provocative way, during class, without "starting to cry, running out of the room, and dropping the class altogether", as you should ... you probably wouldn't care so much about there being no black person in this class, rather than one weak-to-the-point-of-hysteria black woman. This would be a nice first step towards racial equanimity, which should be a prerequisite for any decent, smart, cultured progressive young man such as yourself.
Motherfuking G status, at 15:07!!! Pretty much all of the 15-minute mark
"Gay people not experiencing enough homophobia is not really striking me as a pressing social issue" Hello Darkness my old friend. xD xD xD
Great video but I miss your new voice ... :)
is that erik satie? ++++
God the intro is so good
Man, a lot has changed since July 2017..
I get it - freedom isn't free
the only objection I have with trigger warnings are when they spoil the thing i'm about to read PUT THEM IN A FUCKING SEPARATE THING, OKAY, I DON'T WANT TO KNOW IF SOMEBODY DIES JUST BY NOT SCROLLING DOWN FAST ENOUGH
Interior designers can be as creative as they like, why not ? Have at it.  When interior designers start telling builders and architects and engineers how to think - your house falls down.
Nice comedy at the end.  Shame about the rest of it!
the argument against safe spaces always reminded me a bit of something my father and i had an argument over. i tend to be fairly open about being transgender, and try to educate people when they ask. my father got annoyed when he saw someone else get frustrated and walk out when approached by a man trying to start a discussion with her about her gender. it's a matter of time, place, and consent. i'm down to argue semantics and defend my identity in most instances, but when i still didn't pass well, it felt like every time i went out there would be an instance in which i was misgendered and got a look of confusion when i corrected them. open discussion is one thing, but having to explain or even argue your identity multiple times a day while you're just trying to live is both frustrating and should not be required. also, i don't want every discussion i have with a stranger to be about what's in my pants. i pass well enough that the topic is fairly uncommon, but for people that are more visibly a minority, it sucks. in short, a safe space isn't a place to hide and live your entire life, it's a place to take a breath and be understood for a bit. no one is advocating for turning the entire world into a safe space, we want discussion, we just don't want the perpetual argument. and i think a lot of privileged people might not understand just for the fact that they have no frame of reference.
Love your videos
That is the biggest cucumber I have ever seen.
That ending bit was such a power move.
Anyone who uses Always Sunny and Clockwork Orange to explain concepts is alright by me.
Tl;dr yeah
I pretty much agree with you but on my campus, there are sometimes debate-groups to discus themes like catcalling or mansplaining only accessible for women and lgbtqi* people. I personally have a problem with both topics because these are topics all people have to talk about to find a solution and those debate groups aren't the biggest friends of other opinions ("yes, amen - don't think to much and don't ask why" kinda style). If my grammar/writing ist awfull I want to apologize. English isn't my first language and I am pretty drunk right now.
Someone should really tell the Universal Negro Improvement Association [ founded by Marcus Garvey, Jah Rastafarai !]  that they are being racist!
I noticed that ContraPoints can't use the term "Good-Faith Liberals".....wonder why.
I thought this was a very weak video.   Most of your discussion of the criticisms of things like trigger warnings and safe spaces are anecdotal. You don’t address more serious analyses of the issue like say, Jonathan Haidt’s the coddling of the American mind. The real issue is not simply the effect these measure can have on free speech, but the type of subjectivity they foster: fear-based, uncritical, and incredibly hostile to antithetical viewpoints. Which is an odd set of things for a channel called “contrapoints” to defend.   I think the worst part of this discussion is the continual appeal to an essential state of ethnic or gender minority. As if all black or queer people take offence to the same things in the same way and support the same measures for dealing with the supposed offence.  Finally, look at what students are reporting. While you continually downplay the effect that the “anti-free speech movement” is having on college campuses, 61% of students say that speech is being deterred on their campus, and only 64% saying that they believed their first amendment right to free speech was secure.   https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/12/us/college-students-free-speech.html
ew. you ate the skin of that cucumber. also: ew you ate a cucumber. also: whats long hard and has cum in it? a cucumber.
both sides seem to hate free speech and show a bit of fascism these days. just for different reasons. ive been liberal all my life, still am and will be, but a lot of behaviour from people that call themselves liberal, or leftist, or whatever... just doesnt make sense to me. i get the well meaning theory behind a lot of it, just not what it becomes in practice. like being against racism and sexism. of course everyone should be against that, but then it quickly devolves into attempting to limit peoples thoughts, right down to demanding nobody ever use a curse word, or tell a joke, and calling it combative or fearmongering if you question or challenge them at all. its like when straight white people consider themselves the default setting for existence and hate to be challenged or questioned. now weve got liberal/leftists considering everything but straight and white to be the default and youre not supposed to question them. ever.  one of the tenants of fascism is strict regimentation of society -- what else is the behaviour i mentioned above other than strict regimentation of society? one way or the other theyre both behave the exact same way.
WHAT WERE THE UPSIDE DOWN CARDS
3:32 but WHERE do I post my "rainbowdash hates the jews" fanfiction?
Natalie I don't know if you read your comments if you do I would like to know your thoughts on Karl Poppers Parasdox of free speech argument " The Paradox of intolerance states that if a society is tolerant without limit, its ability to be tolerant is eventually seized or destroyed by the intolerant"
yes
Trigger warnings and safe spaces are essential. It's a shame that the latter is required, but for those who experience issues from the prejudice they experience every day some respite is necessary. Those who want to give them a hard time will just have to wait. Or, get a soul and leave them be.
On the idea that safe spaces are creating sheltered people by depriving them of the experience of the real world and its threatening opinions, you might have to concider that people arent born in safe spaces and that they go their for a reason.
Professors are usually pretty obnoxious. I remember being niave and 18 and wowed by their eloquency and intellect and caught up in it until i realized that they were just putting their own biases and agenda and sniffing their own pompous asses while putting their nose up at anyone who says i might not agree. In 3 short years in college i went from eating that shit up to being so Jaded the idea of going back makes me feel ill. There are good professors but damn can they be over shadowed by the arrogant ones. And ps i can't believe a professor was even allowed to keep their job after using such a hateful racial slur even if he didn't want to be outwardly hateful
This one is the best I've seen so far....but the professor would have used black of it had been a male student....women are still on all men's short list.  I don't think I will live to see that change.
A university campus IS IN THE PUBLIC DOMAIN - IT TAKES MONEY FROM THE STATE.   CPAC is in the PRIVATE DOMAIN.   So retarded!!!
You are so moronic it beggars belief.   Conflates freedom of speech with freedom of association. The bar example is that of 'freedom of association'; people can voluntarily form institutions and create rules and regulations that people agree on. If they don't agree to the rules, then they should leave or not join in the first place. This is the 'private domain'.   This is different to 'freedom of speech'.   Universities take money from the state. As they take money from the state (tax payer) they are bound by constitutional rules. This is the 'public domain', state institutions MUST guarantee freedom of speech.   'Hosting God damn trolls...diversity of viewpoints can flourish.'   Yes of course, define your political enemy as a 'troll' in order de-legitimise them.   I wonder who gets TO DEFINE what counts as debate and what counts as HATE? Well, THE LEFT OF COURSE! Have you seen any right-wing students rioting and attempting to shut down Marxist/Communist 'intellectuals'?   You are a sick leftist hack. You omit detail and nuance in order to trick ignorant viewers.
nice clockwork orange reference
I'm part of the left and don't consider hate speech to be free speech ... most of Europe has figured this out. https://www.theatlantic.com/politics/archive/2017/08/what-europe-can-teach-america-about-free-speech/537186/
I had been warned of the liberal-college-brainwashing-machine for all of my life, so much so that I almost didn’t ever go. To keep my head on my shoulders, I bathed in videos by Louder With Crowder, Milo, Ben Shapiro, and other regulars on the Rubin Report. Looking back, I feel...well, I don’t want to remember those dark times. To be fair to my past self, the counter videos played in many college classrooms were rarely academic, but, instead, emotion-based rants. Watching them renewed my allegiance to what appeared to be the more thoughtful side. Oh my fuck, Contra, why did it take me until 2019 to find you:(
Funny that the freedom lovers started with men like this...  http://nla.gov.au/nla.news-article75869223 http://nla.gov.au/nla.news-article40944165  https://www.britishpathe.com/video/lord-warden-sir-robert  https://www.atlasnetwork.org/partners/global-directory/australia-and-new-zealand
As much as I can't thank you enough for the intelligent, well done, and thoroughly thought out arguments and explanations, I just can't get over that wonderful ending that just made me laugh so hard. That is such excellent use of censorship and comedic timing, right there.
At the end of the video, when you talk about the fear of bigotry gaining momentum in politics.. it's the exact same thing right people feel about the "traditional values", family, false rape accuse, and so on. The fact that that are "dominant culture" right now does not mean that people have not the same fear as the minority. I really don't like when in your video you disrespect the far right feelings, because.. i really think people are just people. To me there is not really difference between SJW and far right: fear driven people, as almost all humans. The real problem is that "divide et impera" is always been the way powerful people rules. It's the separation of cultures, sex preference, etc that let a "dominant class" rules. Who cares about other peoples lifestyle? Just stop being an hate vehicle and stop let the rich get richer with our blood.
But you can shut down your competitors by accusing them of being racists, when they are not. I have seen 3 different people be destroyed by media lies about them. They were not racist and were shut down with a lot of fake news. All you have to do now to shut your enemy up is accuse them of hatred and racism. Don't even have to go to the trouble of framing them for having an affair.
Here, a bit late to the party, because of Viceland..... thoroughly entertaining and thought provoking videos. thank you for doing what you do!
Excellent presentation . I ran to my safe place near the end.
Coming from vice, I can see now why it's quite effective...for white Americans. Free speech is important and it's because I'm from an environment where criticism of politicians and people can get you killed because life is so cheap. So I want to value offense with the understanding that physical harm doesn't mix into it. As for Tigger words, I believe the problem comes with the deplatforming issue. Ex-muslims for example are people the right wing love but their speech is often considered triggering with attempts to deplatform by Muslims in colleges yet ex-muslims are vulnerable minorities at risk of harm. Furthermore trigger words, while I truly understand their value, the term itself are cheapened by its young proponents who create a connection that trigger words = forbidden words. "His speech is triggering!" "Her discussion is triggering!" These are phrases used to deplatform people which then damages the word.  My opinion: if we are to invite Milo then invite the opposite of Milo. If we are to invite an offensive person of the right then we must invite offensive people of the left.
8:13 if that is what first comes to mind to a person, they need to act up.
Brilliant.
Can you make a video on the issue surrounding how the left eats itself and shuts down nuances dialogue within its circles? I think it’s a huge issue
If we lost hope on the capasity of fellow man to be racional, then any other aproach is just contemptual or their inteligence. We cant enforce tolerance, we barely can eforce complaince and even that just breeds recentment.
Brony Nation!
There's a difference between government force to stop free speech and private establishments doing it.
There is nothing elitist about living in the barrel and thinking about the nature of existence or whatever. Like, it requires very small amount of funds.
I needed a trigger warning for the cucumber ending.
I don't think 4chan has ever claimed to be a "bastion of free speech" or a "anything goes" community. It's just an internet forum where you don't need an account to post in and that's it.
did you know that in brasil black is racist and negro is normal
Love this brilliant break down of the issues around free speech...
@ContraPoints I love you. That last segment, illustrating how certain types of discourse are regularly limited by many of the anti-leftist so-called "champions" of "free speech" through censorship ... that was meta comic genius. I wonder how many people just thought you were being weird and quirky? You are a goddess. We are not worthy.
Universities should allow students and speakers who are invited to say what they want without threatening people. Sweeping statements about 'the blacks' or 'the jews' or 'the wealthy' or 'white people' are pretty obvious things to at least discourage.
There is no freedom of expression in private property, and private property is defined by the freedom of contract
You got Michelle Obama arms.
Your right to free speech does not impede my right to life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness.
I certainly do not want to defend the conservative criticism of safe spaces in the way that they use it to devalue the necessity of places where people can have an identity and not be constantly interrogated because I know the value of that very well.  BUT, the LGBT community is a primary example of the idea going to far and becoming totalitarian or rather having a totalizing effect on members of a community.  A good example would be how is it that a near majority of gay men could never have heard of bisexuality as a real experience or orientation? How is it that countless gay histories are written without considering the idea or possibility? The same denialism occurred for the transgender population as well.  The answer is that this "safe space" also became an echo chamber space which has real negative effects both within a community and outside a community.  Another problem with the echo chamber safe space was pointed out by Foucault in his criticisms of the gay movement making homosexuality into an identity rather than a behavior or preference. By making it into an identity in reinforced the power order and pre-existing heterosexual ethic.  You can also clearly see what began to be left out of the gay community as a predetermined code of political memes was enforced. It became more and more conservative. Because "gay" became more and more about preserving a social order.  If you look at an earlier gay movement of the 1950's and 60's in America most of the LGBT intellectuals questioned this conformity. You can certainly see it in the writing and statements of James Baldwin, Allen Ginsberg, Jean Genet, Paul Goodman, and Gore Vidal just to name a few. I would argue that many of these early queer icons would NOT have been very welcome in the gay community after 1978. Instead what you get is gay politics sponsored by British Petroleum and guided by Andrew Sullivan.  If you go back further in history you will find an even more striking phenomenon in Weimar Germany with Adolf Brand and Magnus Hirschfeld. They had nearly apposing views on many issues but still worked together as activists.  I have for example brought up various psychoanalytic perspectives, Foucault's ideas, even Judith Butlers ideas in LGBT spaces and guess what actual thinking and civil conversation is not welcome.  The issue is the conservatives have a point.  BUT their intention as Jordan Peterson has famously demonstrated is a fucking Trojan Horse. In other-words you invite them there because they might have some reasonable ideas on a specific topic. But their main reason to speak at your platform is to spread inaccurate anti-socialist propaganda in a completely polemical way in utter disregard for the facts.  They are part of the problem.  The issue is Peterson, Rubin, Shapiro etc. are manufactured intellectuals. It is not about intellectual rigor are really having a nuanced discussion it is about propaganda.  Could any of them have a real conversation or debate with George Lakoff or Noam Chomsky? Not really.
I can immediately tell that this video is older than the ones I've seen before on the channel based on your voice
Does YouTube de-monetize Natalie’s videos? 😂😂
My favorite anti-trigger-warning cliche is "books don't have trigger warnings." For context; yes, some books- even books that predate this entire fiasco, everyone involved in it, and the grandparents of everyone involved in it- do contain warnings for content that may disturb the reader. Hell, the motherfucking _Canterbury Tales_ had at least one content warning.
Like the idea freedom means rich people can do whatever they want with their money, even though that directly diminishes the freedom of the poor.
Looks like the (Part 2) was dropped from the title of this video?
Thnx Obama!!!
"This is where I like it. This is what feels good to me." Finally. Someone who speaks my language.
I don't think I'm smart enough to watch this channel.
Fuck. W-what you think this is the first time I ever? No. Mmmyes. At this point, I don't think I'm taking this seriously. These people, are so insecure they will actually gas people. I think accepting their snowflake dreams of defeating the liberals for muhhhricaaaa is way way too stupid.  Chances are that some literally will need bullets for convincing. Again.
People probably don’t like the term “Safe Space” because it sounds like a term children would come up with for younger children. It brings up thoughts of a play area, probably due to the simplicity in its phrasing.  As for “triggers” and “trigger warnings”, it may be because it was originally a term used for serious trauma victims that was co-opted to be synonymous with pet peeves.   They’d probably have better reception if the former were calles something like a like “Comfort Zone” and the ladder were deemed socially unacceptable to be used by those without legitimate traumatic experiences.
So how about a libertarian point: Your private tavern can restrict what they want, 4 Chan can protect their boards if they feel like that, but all of those rules were privately agreed on by using 4 Chan or by going into the tavern. Government rules are forced onto everyone by the majority of the voting population. That's why all rules forced onto us should be the non aggression principle.
So how about a libertarian point: Your private tavern can restrict what they want, 4 Chan can protect their boards if they feel like that, but all of those rules were privately agreed on by using 4 Chan or by going into the tavern. Government rules are forced onto everyone by the majority of the voting population. That's why all rules forced onto us should be the non aggression principle.
The comment on only people who want total anarchy on free speech is that they are a butthurt white kid who is upset that they can't say n****r. I think it's the fact that it's hypocritical. At least be consistent and ban it all together or allow It to be open for everyone. But banning it would mean that they indeed want to censor free speech
The problem is that these apparently overexposed incidents at Berkeley, Yale, Middlebury etc. actually attract tons of support from other leftists. It's therefore disingenuous to treat them like one-off 'overcorrections' unrepresentative of a deeper anti-speech current in the left. If other progressives/"SJW"'s disavowed them loudly and immediately ContraPoints would be right; centrists are being alarmist. But that's not the reaction you see.
So who decides what's ok to say ? What if it's someone who doesn't like you ? Y'know ?
Loved the Clockwork Orange reference
I graduated from an extremely liberal collage in CA around 2010 and never encountered a safe space.  To be fair though, the entire campus was super liberal so perhaps it wasn't needed.
“I will stand up for the bronies” A TRUE AMERICAN HERO
I don't believe so, buts that's my opinion. The Left have bad apples, no doubts there, but the Right has this amazing ability to hijack the narrative.
15:30 *begins slow-clap*
Why do you have hot shot is a good question
If you don't like a safe space, then you don't have to go to the safe space. If you're in someone else's space, you respect the spaces rules, if you don't like the rules, leave.
Omg when that cucumber broke
There's just too many goddamn Nidoran Females in this world
6:40 contrapoints EXPOSED as a canadian
Late, because I started watching you after the Incel video but great work as always. Also I got huge nostalgia from the Pokémon cards.
Nah, black people in america need to toughen the fuck up.   Like the black panthers did when they went to demonstrations armed and then the govt crushed them.
Sometimes people just need a break from society and need to be with "their people", Idk what is wrong with this. Women had their book clubs, men had their bars, this was/ is seen as normal by conservatives, but the second minorities or people who don't fit inside the norm want a similar thing, white people straight people freak out about feeling excluded. I can only speak from an LGBT perspective but when I went from a very liberal and accepting school up north to a borderline conservative school down south, I realized what a safe space was. I wanted a place where I could be open about my sexuality and just exist without feeling judged. When you aren't fully accepted you walk out into the world every day a bit closed off, it's like you have this armor on you. Sometimes that armor gets heavy and you want to be in a place where it doesn't need to exist.    I'm a white-cis female,  honestly, I couldn't imagine the extra toll being a POC or non-cis would put on someone, especially in a borderline conservative to conservative environment.
Not going to lie I'm in it for the random bits of Satie in the background
I encountered lots of trigger warnings, but I was in a field that plays with skulls, focuses on culture, digs up graves, and basically chronicles every horrible thing humanity has ever done that we can find evidence for.
You should go on Dave’s show. Would be an interesting interaction
14:47 Point of contention: too much censorship!
I believe because TV told me.
9:26 *_Viddy well, little brother._*  *_Viddy well._*
Where lies the security of a guarantee that does not involve money???
Not every bar in America needs rules against gambling.  Pool halls do not need rules against gambling!  That would be the last thing they "need."  Okay, more specifically, when one bets on oneself to beat an opponent, then that is not considered "gambling."  However, a person betting on somebody else to win a match is considered gambling, and is not legal.  I make this point because I am aware most people are ignorant to the legal definition of what constitutes gambling, and they fail to differentiate betting on skill from betting on luck.
Israel is a safe space.
I'm about brollo kitty myself.
I like the sound that it makes too !!!
I'm old enough to remember when "trigger warnings" were just called "disclaimers".
Thank you for standing up for us bronies Natalie
Who else is Binge-watching all of her videos?
2:29 I was watching this while eating a roasted chicken sourdough melt. I almost choked to death, inhaling chicken and hot sauce while I laughed. I was still laughing while realizing I might be able to die, and just as I began my last laugh, the chicken flew out of my throat and I could breath again.   10/10 would do it again.
BEHOLDING MANY SIGHTS THOUGH BLIND TO SIGNS
Does anyone know what the painting behind her on the bed is? It looks like maybe klimt?
#PokeSpons?
That Sunny episode is great at showing why we need regulations too.
Wish you didnt Bleep out those parts, Im sooo curious
you have some thick Biceps bro, im Jelly
14:00  Yes, that's the problem, humans aren't rational but the only hope we have is rationality.  The problem with the left is reliance on emotional arguments not so coincidentally that's the right's problem too.  There is an additional problem, rationality is useless unless it has some content to reason about and basic ethical principles can not be arrived at through reason alone.  All this means is humanity is doomed. Yet surprisingly things have gotten better, minorities are marginally better off today then they were 30, 50, 100 or 400 years ago.  I wonder how that happened?
Dave Rubin seems spineless to me.
To think I once was subbed to Rubin!
Society will never be just and good. You cannot make it so. Abandon the project and take solace that the world is your domain.
Complete freedom can only be achieved in isolation. One man’s freedom tyrannizes all the rest.
Butterfree Ekans Hitmonlee Oddish Lapras Dratini Ivysaur Nidoran Golbat Metapod Aerodactyl Nidorina Pokemon Squirtle Ivysaur Golem Haunter Tauros Shellder Tentacool Haunter Oddish Pokemon Graveler Sawamular / Hitmonlee Erika no Fushigidane / Erika's Bulbasaur Trainer / Lass Ivysaur Nidoran Dratini Tangela Omanyte Slowpoke Ivysaur Gloom Nidoran Staryu = BEHOLDINGMANPSIGHTSTHOPGSETINDTOSIGNS?
That ending was great!
Hello I have fallen in love with your videos. There are important people in my life who have fallen down the alt-right rabbit hole and I have, up until I found your channel, felt helpless against their arguments. So thank you for helping me to feel empowered.   Also: your lighting is always incredible. The last scene looks celestial and you make it look even more beautiful. Thank you thank you!
you've got great arms.
15:00 trigger warning : ear rape
Hi ContraPoints. I just want to thank you for opening my mind to new perspectives. Although I’ve always identified as a liberal, I’ve never thought of free speech, trigger warnings, and safe spaces in this way. So thank you 😊
Beautyful to watch! And think throught.
Gustav Klimt - Water Serpents 2
Safe spaces: i worked FULL TIME on colleges and while at a major public CUNY in NYC I had to GOOGLE WHAT A SAFE SPACE WAS (beyond the occasion "LGBT safe space stickers" I'd see on some office doors) that i kept hearing about from the right. I say again I SPENT 50 HRS A WK ON UNIVERSITY CAMPUSES and bad to GOOGLE what a safe space was!
I see your toilet paper is oriented ...correctly.
suns out, guns out at 7:16
The only time I've seen a negative safe space is on Tumblr, where anyone who says something problematic has a callout post made listing their sins and is run off the website. But that like, effects nobody outside of Tumblr.
Close Captions: English Portuguese Esperanto
You should go on Dave Rubin’s show.
"racism is only allowed on /b/"
*this is what feels good to me*
The end of this video was so fucking funny.
Racists are the biggest snowflakes of all. For fuck's sake, they used to kill people over the most trivial of offenses and would lose their shit if someone with the wrong skin color used the wrong water fountain or entered the wrong diner.
Huh. Thank goodness for Milo. Looking for videos trashing his dumb ass are how I found this channel one extremely early morning/late night around sunrise in a half drunken haze. I didn't even pass out, I was so fixated. I was up for the whole day, marathon watching every video that was up at the time.  I got way better than what I was searching for.
2:30 WOOHOOOO! go contra
Eww, raw cucumber
7:20 - Can't stop looking at that can of hot shot.
Every time I hear singing in the rain I automatically think of A Clockwork Orange.
I have a question for any African-American literature professors out there.  (I’m sure there are lots of professors who watch these videos. I’m one).  If Black students respond this emotionally to the N-word ending in O, how do you teach them the great African-American writers who wrote before the late 60s? This was the preferred word for Martin Luther King, James Baldwin, Alex Haley, Ralph Ellison, W.E.B. DuBois, Zora Neale Hurston, Richard Wright etc. This is not a rhetorical question hiding a reductio. i’m sure you must have such strategies, and I think it would be useful for me to know about them in my own teaching.
I just subscribed, and am looking forward to seeing more of your videos. I hope you’ll take these comments in the spirit of critical support that your videos so artfully exemplify.  Two comments about The African-American woman‘s reaction to John Cooper. 1) slavery in Greece and Rome had nothing to do with skin color or race. They were mostly white, and usually  captured in battle. 2) The slaves at Epicurus’ salons we’re not working as servants. they were participating in the discussions, and some of the greatest philosophers of that time were slaves. That was why Cooper mentions this, and it seems to me to be a legitimate response to the woman’s question about whether philosophy was elitist. I did feel exactly the same sort of gag reflex shared by this woman, while imagining what it must’ve been like for her. Nevertheless, he clearly intended this as an honest response to a legitimate question, and saw this to be coming out of a place of respect for her. I can’t really see what else he could’ve said that would’ve been more appropriate.  I realize we can no longer assume that only privileged white people get to write the rules of courtesy, and the fact that she responded this way, and that this response seems justifiable, means we need to do some more careful thinking about this. But I wouldn’t dump on Cooper for not having come up with the answer yet
did you just use to word degenerate to desribe some one ?
Safe spaces facilitate free speech. That's one of (the pretty much only) things I like about LGBT bars. You can actually have a descent conversation and express yourself authentically without worrying about ten thousand shitlords being outraged or whatever, and that's what tickles me about anti safe space rhetoric. You think we're all locked away in our safe spaces plotting to destroy freedom and overthrow society? We're talking about how our day went, how amazingly bad the music always is in here, who we're into and... Marlene Dietrich. Like it's just not that scary
What's the difference between a trigger warning and a rated R warning?
I do wonder.. How many of you think it was okay for Ayaan Hirsi Ali to be deplatformed?
I'm no scholar, but I believe that the Triangle Man hates Particle Man.
I love the end where basically the entire final parts of the script are censored to shit because right wing snowflakes can't handle hearing about our filthy filthy leftist sexlives...
Truth and justice will prevail if you let people speak. All cases in history of oppression starts with legalized, state violence-enforced suppression of free speech.
Lol the cucumber just broke
I wish a lot of people on Facebook would listen to this.
This was wonderful, thank you! I really liked how you articulated how hate speech can silence marginalized groups. Very eloquent, very entertaining video!
Is that a picture of Janis Joplin?
I take issue with the term "microaggression". The word "aggression" implies intent to most people. Most of what people label "microaggressions" are not said with any conscious ill-intent. Intention doesn't make everything fine, but people feel accused when they hear the term "microaggression" and they get defensive. There needs to be a new word for it that doesn't sound like you're accusing anyone of being a bad person, and then people will be more open to listening.
By collab I mean sex me. Always.
I lived on campus for 4 years. That 'left wing indoctrination' BS is non-sense cooked up by far right ideologues to explain the correlation between higher education and left-wing thinking.
I have the same giant klimt painting in my room and I flipped my shit bc i thought I had my camera on and that the video was my room. yo necesito sleep.
So you are saying that John Cooper suggested that being a *philosopher* is the best way to live?  I have a hard time believing that.  Even if he were simply echoing Aristotle, contemplative living doesn't necessarily entail being a philosopher. The whole point is that certain conditions must exist in the body politic to allow for the contemplative life. Thus, the importance justice for the oppressed in society.  Anyway, I obviously can't know for sure given that I wasn't there, but your framing of this discussion seems like a straw man.
Brilliant all the way thru, but unreal that there's so much censoring of ordinary "nasty" language, mainly around the 15 minute mark. What Sunday School bullshit on the part of YouTube. But I see this everywhere. It's pathetic, like we're all about 7 years old and must be protected from such questionable stuff.
I love watching old white right-wingers make fun of safe spaces and then run home to their gated communities
Some good points, I hadn't considered the full effect of how some speech can silence other speech so you have to take a side. Sort of like a concept of dominant and recessive speech? But IMO the so-called "free marketplace of ideas" is a good thing even though there is bad output from it many times and even if you have a pessimistic outlook. This is because, regardless, it is still the best shot that humans collectively have at discovering the truth. We all think our perspectives are 100% the truth but the amount of confidence we ought to have in that is low if we don't learn about and comprehend other viewpoints. There is always the risk that if you as an individual start out with a viewpoint that is true, and learn about a false one you could be swayed from the truth. However, the fact that humans have any capacity for logic at all sways the overall society that partakes of the free marketplace of ideas towards truth, at least to some extent. The problem now for me becomes, if some ideas/speech are inherently "dominant" but that dominance is not necessarily connected to truth, the free marketplace of ideas will sway towards those as well. I don't think this warrants an abandonment of the free marketplace of ideas though, but I guess you can't go wrong with strengthening education to help logic and wisdom be more dominant and overcome that more.
What pronouns do you use? I wanted to share your videos (just found them myself) and wanted to use appropriate language when doing so!
OG Pokemon cards <3
Dig the Erik Satie and the whole vid.
not the entire left. I'm on the left, and consider free speech to be absolute.   But I think you're talking about yourself and the rest of the 'ignorant left'.. so yeah. you guys hate free speech, obviously.
BEHOLDINGMAN_SIGHTSTHO_GHBL INDTOSIGNS  what does it mean tho
I can't fiigure out the whole code of the Pokemon cards. Got the first couple words until around the omanyte. Anyone managa to decipher it?
almost every space an asshole bigot walks into is a safe space and these fuckers are talking shit about safe spaces for people who actually suffered and felt imprisoned (and that actually were imprisoned at times and still are) their whole life by other's bigotry? conservatives and liberals can go eat a dick (and that's me using my right of free speech you shits).
I appreciate your Klimt & Blake prints
Mmmm play dough anthology
I'm really confused about how people think trigger warnings limit free speech.  Even back when I was a shittier person and thought it was silly to be upset that they weren't there, I just cannot and never did see what was wrong with having them be there in the first place.  Like, even if the trigger warning details something that seems like a non-issue to literally every person who has ever existed and ever will exist, what exactly is the issue of it being there?
*shows off her pokemon cards*
Well.. Cucumbers clearly need a safe space now.
One thing I do want to comment on is trigger warnings. While I loath the politicalization of what is essentially a mental health / illness issue, I don't completely agree that they're helpful in any way and go against ideas of exposure-response therapy and mindfulness. If someone has a trigger, and they are not going through therapy or have any support system to help them cope, and they're PTSD, Anxiety, or OCD is severe, then I can see how warnings can work in the short term, but not in the long term. In the long term these triggers are unhelpful because it goes against the idea of mindfully confronting your fears, anxieties, and triggers. If you are at a stage where you are really good at managing your disorder, then the trigger warnings are not really harmful, just redundant, but where I can see harm is where if someone is not good at managing their illness, a trigger warning might work as a blocker, and, in a sense, is enabling. Trigger warnings are not anti-free speech, but they're also not simple content warnings or viewers discretion. Trigger warnings are meant for people with triggers, not a general audience, or at least, they are descriptively meant for people with triggers as far as I know. In the end, they have a short term realization, but in the long term do not seem very helpful.
So then, arent Long Island & Staten Island safe spaces???
Maybe the College Students should leave the building and stand outside it in protest. If the auditorium is empty and no one pays for a ticket, then the college wasted money. Also I again offer the solution of watching carefully the faces of the people who do go in and then ostracizing them from other kinds of campus Life. At the very least eventually the college will get sick of wasting money.
"Triggered" was the first real internet meme that I personally saw invading my life at college. There was some dude sat there on the landing, I was waiting around for the class to start and he started talking about his ex girlfriend to this other girl.  How he slept with someone else or something. And he said triggered among all of it. I can't remember the specifics because he didn't have a very clear voice, but that one stuck out. Said it with contempt, thought the fucker was stalking me to be honest with you.
Death.
Both videos in this series were really good.
Love the video. What I have noticed is the tendency for extremists on both sides to be very simplistic, aggressively dogmatic, hypocritical, lacking in empathy and sometimes just plain ignorant.  For example on tumblr I saw a really popular post that started out as a polite request for empathy for vets with ptsd.  It asked people to not set off fire works near them.  An alarming amount of people respond by say f them and going on about how they deliberately wanted to trigger them because they hate the war etc.  Which since mental illness is something they are supposed to care about but somehow not for veterans.  Never mind the fact that if you really hate the war attacking the veterans really doesn’t do much.  They are not the ones that really decide these matters.  Many often enlist because they are poor and want an education/opportunity.  If you really care about mental health you shouldn’t equivocate.  Though part of the problem is that their has been a severe loss of caring about class and economical oppression.  That’s why some how making jokes about hillbillies is still ok even though often these jokes are essentially about how destitute these communities are.  Part of the issue is the ignorance of how difficult entrenched disparities and generational poverty can be to overcome.  More integral to the issue is a lack of desire to understand, empathize or see complexity.   Sometimes things can be pretty simple but more often when it comes to people and society they are complicated.    Often I find that though I may agree with the view point in the posts I loath the way they go about it.  This is patly due to the fact that many of these posts are about people patting themselves on the back about how morally righteous and woke they are.  These righteous circle jerks are not actually about changing hearts and minds or changing anything.      There’s also the tendency for the left to devour it’s own.  Fights about who’s experience is valid, which experience is the most valid etc.   The left can be just as tyrannical and toxic to it’s self with a tendency to shut out any view that differs from the vary extreme one going viral at the moment.  Even when it is one that is just plain wrong or hypocritical.
People, this whole video was just a way to show off her Pokémon card collection
The moderators and janitors don't even take those rules seriously on 4chan. They only give a shit once it benefits them or if someone pisses them off for any reason. The rules don't mean shit and the website is organized anarchy.
The ending just got me forever. I need a safe space now else I am going to die because of crazy laughter!
Okay! All right! I love you!
Honest question: how do we square all of this with a concern that the first people to be silenced and even killed historically have been atheists, socialists and LGBT people? I know the left ONLY wants to ban hate speech, but I could easily see fascists using that as a cudgeol and calling atheisms and socialism hate speech.
My whole issue with trigger warnings is that I believe there is no standard to them. And because there is no standard, it both broadens the spectrum of what qualifies as a trigger and limits creatives such as myself in expressing their craft without offending someone. In my opinion there should really only be like 6 or 7 triggers worthy of listing anywhere because they're generally sanctioned anyway like rape and incest.
Trigger warnings supplement freedom. They allow the consumer to make an informed decision about whether or not they'll be able to handle the content of the media before they go in, rather than "surprise motherfucker"ing them with it later then holding them responsible for a negative reaction to content they had no way of knowing they'd encounter.
wait is "negro" a derogatory term? (I'm not trying to be problematic I just never realized this could be offensive and like, I don't wanna use that word if its offensive. someone pls let me know)
It’s a free country...bitch.
Epic channel. Thanks for fab content! <3
7:28 Vaporeon :D
You're a goddess!
Wait... your gender identity is an idea? You could choose a different idea then?
I remember reading the Cinemax guide when I was kid, so in the late 80's/ early 90's and interestingly enough in the description of certain movies they would post the words"Warning: rape." Basically, it was a trigger warning before it was labeled a trigger warning.
People who bitch about trigger warnings and safe spaces are such hypocrites. They're basically saying that they don't get a space for themselves and thus they are "triggered" as they understand the word. It's so stupid .
Great thoughtful analysis but also i just can't stop laughing out loud during most of your videos.  Best YouTube content creator?     Also the freakout over trigger warnings is obvious bs.  To extend the point about nsfw none of these right wing propagandists ever complained about content warnings which are essentially the same thing (read: they are a different word for literally the sane thing).   "Warning: some viewers may find this content objectionable."   "If you have children you may wish to have them leave the room."   "This film contains violence and adult language."   If anything, these warnings are highly supportive of free speech.  They allow people to make different types of content that some might deem offensive, problematic or upsetting while promoting informed consent for consumers.   These warnings make it more feasible to provide, consume and promote such content or "speech."   It isn't different at all.  For those who would argue otherwise, keep in mind that these warnings (eg "this program contains violence and sexual content") obviously serve to warn people of diverse backgrounds and beliefs (eg political, social, sexual) of content they might find offensive OR just uncomfortable ("triggering").  For example, someone who doesn't like watching graphic gun violence in movies doesn't  necessarily take a stance on gun rights (although they might), they just might find it upsetting.  This is totally normal and common across diverse ideological persuasions just as it normal or at least common to not be bothered by violent movies.  By the same token, maybe some people are 100% supportive of freedom of sexual expression but don't particularly want to watch graphic pornography of certain types or even porn in general. There are plenty of things I support in terms of freedom that I might be squeamish about and have a full right not to participate in (via viewership) and might like to be warned about.  "Trigger warnings" are literally nothing more than a rebranding of content warnings which is a rebranding or just naming of something called "common sense."  They have probably been around since the dawn of time (ok...not really that long but certainly since any existing right wing twits have been alive) and arguably don't need a name (at least not more than anything else does for practical purposes). Right wing propaganda is often as simple as naming something that already exists to turn something uncontroversial and literally supported by everyone (the right and left appreciate warnings) into something pernicious in the minds of its credulous consumers.  This also happens with a few radical faux-intellectual  dummies on the "other side of the political spectrum" (as crude and inaccurate as that term may be but you know...non-right wing ideologues).
What did this made me think I need to eat better
14:50  to 15:22 well I have tinnitus now
The cucumber segment had me laughing like an idiot.
I'm homeless , but will contribute when possible. I do share and promote you as possible . Thanx
I love you !!! All the best !!!
Lovely work you are doing and I'm gratefull for the level of nuance I don't normally expect from things on youtube
That poor cucumber
"freedom aint not free" - Eric Andre
Love the unsettling vibes in these videos. ^__^
11:28 the part I saw on Tumblr that made me a fan of Contrapoints
The clockwork Orange reference got me
I would watch HOURS of you ASMR eating pussy.
Nice intro, I downloaded it.
Trigger warnings are ok, it's just that I have seen some ridicule ones, like "tw: photocopy"  I'm not joking.
4:54 Yeah but that's not what happens, anyone with any views to the right is labeled as a "troll".
4chan didn't always have rules before the new management, everyone posts to 8chan now.
4chan is a bad example. Site was sold off and is run by israeli linked tech interns, and has a relationship with the fbi. 4chan of today is closer to reddit than 4chan of old.
That Haunter card you have, without the shadow around the picture border, its worth like $100.00, you also have a shadowless Squirtle worth $200.00. You're welcome.
I’m so confused right now. I used to be extremely left leaning. Then as time passed I became centrist. I still consider myself libertarian and an avid believer in free speech, but you kinda just destroyed my entire concept of free speech by pointing out that it doesn’t really exist... I guess it’s time for a new political and philosophical journey to discover what makes sense to me. Thank you for challenging my views to allow me room for growth.
And yeah I think the idea that microaggressions turn people away from school is ridiculous. The work you put in to get to school and the negative stimulus associated with 'microaggressions' are so far removed from each other. If microaggressions convinced people to leave campus white men would be the scarcest demographic on liberal campuses.
I object to the hecklers veto. I wouldnt invite Milo to my campus but your argument is flawed. The mob is not an acceptable answer to who sets and enforces the rule. Milo is useful for exposing the mob. I think you are straw manning people like Dave Rubin. Nobody seriously thinks Milo has anything substantive to contribute
so much cringe
Important to keep in mind that the "free market" requires government oversight and regulation so the argument "it's just the free marketplace of ideas, bro" is pretty funny. I'm guessing they aren't arguing in favor of speech regulation!
4chan oldfag here (like 2008 oldfag). The rule against racism is literally not enforced. I have literally not seen a single person banned for racism, even temporarily, since like 2012. In fact, on blue boards (that's the SFW ones where rule 1 is theoretically enforced), you tend to get banned if you argue with racists or argue liberal viewpoints. Anyone who says the site (except for /b/, granted) is a bastion of unbiased, apolitical free speech clearly hasn't used the site, or at least hasn't been outside of /b/, since at least 2015.
✌❤🥒🍍
"Beholding man sights, though blind to signs." First letter of each Pokemon card.
Are you trans? Or are you a cross-dresser?
racism is only banned in name on 4chan m8
Trigger warning it gets super vulgar at the end.
Wait... Aren't safe and respectable work place policies technically safe space policies?
Damn I think this person is a modern leader in philosophical discussion.   We will see this as super formitive.
Trigger warnings or other mentions that what's about to be mentioned could be upsetting are really reasonable so long as nobody is trying to remove things that could upset someone (which afaik there aren't really anyone who supports that). 'Safe Spaces' conceptually are similar, but to give a specific example where they can go wrong was the November 9th 2015 Missouri University protest by ConcernedStudent1950 declared a section of the university a "Black Space" (their own words, IIRC) where they wouldn't allow media coverage, pushed away an Asian photographer, yelled at him, said various mean and childish things, and then a teacher who was working with the protest tried to incite violence against another reporter. The problem doesn't come from wanting to get away from it all and have a non-public space dedicated to whichever group makes it, the problems come in when you can declare normally public spaces not allowed to anyone not also in the group, as this removes the freedom of the press and intentionally restricts normal activity. However as I started with having friendly places where groups who feel marginalized can be supported is good, but they need to take proper methods to establish a space and not take them away from the public (although protests can somewhat fall under another category, but that's a different topic, but they also aren't allowed to silence the press).    To the specific mention of verb choice, I've heard from elderly people that in their time calling someone Black was considered racist, and Ne*ro was the polite thing to say. This might be regional, but it very well may have been with no ill intent on that professor's part.    If the specific university discussion can somehow be related to MLP, then yes, it should be allowed. Same with bigots, because if whoever is in control decides what is 'bigoted' then you very well may end up the one silenced. Considering groups that have alligned themselves with the Left have done quite a bit to silence discussions on male abuse/homelessness, places like the EU make it nearly impossible to criticize immigrants who have committed crimes (as well as actually persecute crimes) and make special exceptions based on race and religion, attempting to control the freedom of speech is really dangerous.    There's also limited but not non-existent evidence that there may be biological causes for non-gender binary, so don't ignore biology just yet, it may support you soon.    I don't agree with the whole 'free-market ideas' entirely, but by deplatforming, by silencing, and by persecuting those who you disagree with you increase that divide between you and those you disagree with. To create something closer to the prevailing of good ideas there needs to be dialogue, and if you try and silence one side of it you tell them that they don't get to try and use that same 'free-market ideas' approach, causing them to use violence or other methods because they're not allowed to talk to you. I'm almost certain that the rise of alt-right, nationalist, and white supremacist groups in the EU is connected to crimes that aren't being investigated, with sexual crimes that disproportionately affect white and Sikh not being investigated or having many arrests, supremacy groups can use them as a scapegoat to tell fearful people that they have to fight back. They're also wrong, but to ignore sexual crimes to avoid being called Islamophobic is also wrong. That's another fear of the Left using these terms so wildly with abandon, because they can be used to instantly discredit whoever you accuse whether or not there's much evidence behind it, causing people to be afraid and avoid normal actions. A police officer shouldn't worry about confronting a criminal because if they were to arrest them the officer would be prosecuted for Islamophobia, the focus should be on whether or not a crime has been committed.    That's not to say that Islamophobia is fake, it's very real, but with how freely it's thrown around and with how little evidence is needed to declare someone it you can devalue bigotry by making it so common that nobody ends up caring about it.
I think the idea of a ‘safe space’ is hilarious. But the trigger thing makes sense. Like, tiggers for epileptics & nsfw etc. so sure, rape victims, sensitive topics & ptsd should have triggers warnings too.
I'm wondering if the use of small but omnipresent platforms can solve the problem of big platforms being biased?  If bars where used as such platforms, for example...  Isn't that what lead to say The French Revolution? (Although I don't think violent revolutions are the answer, the real revolution occurs without violence but in humans' minds)
14:47 to 15:34 epicness
There are a lot of good points in this video, and it has caused me to reconsider this issue somewhat--mainly by showing how contextual speech is. But there are still ways that a lot of progressives seem hostile to free speech. Some examples:  -Bemoaning the limits the First Amendment puts on hate speech laws. -Saying only POC should be able to talk about racism, and women about sexism, and so on. -Piling on and shutting down even minor disagreement with progressive ideas in progressive spaces (conservatives also do the corresponding thing in their spaces, but two wrongs don't make a right). There are a variety of tools for this--claims of PRATT, appeals to identity, motte and bailey, ad hominem, and so on.  You're wrong about the liberals who complain about this stuff being secret conservatives. It's just that, even though conservatives are at least as bad about free speech as progressives, we don't see as much of it from them. Liberals tend to run in the same circles as progressives, so progressives' constraints on discourse affect us more. Or at least we perceive it that way.
Ugh "Singing in the Rain" triggers me. I was raped when I was 14 and as an adult, I saw that scene in "A Clockwork Orange" and it made it all real again. I feel actually sick and afraid when I here it now. It's so weird and embarrassing for it to bother me so much
VAPOREON WAVE
Speaking of always sunny, I like the difference between the 2nd season and the 12th (or currently airing 13th season) where Mac is openly gay and dennis is pretty obviously not straight lol
when you think you can't love her more, she wears the paddy's t-shirt <3
Contra, you are absolutely smashing it with these videos. A great marriage of substance and style. You reflect so many of my own opinions and feelings about a lot of thorny, divisive issues, you just do a lot better job of articulating it. You are an island of nuanced sanity in an ocean of ideological diarrhoea, and look fabulous doing it. Keep up the great work.
So-called classical liberals know that the term is just a work around for bigotry. You have a right to speak, but you also have the burden of being called a bigot.  If the shoe fits.....
I just finished watching all of ContraPoints videos, and I must say, I love you! The final chapter was glorious.
I was just about to get excited, but that last bite killed my mojo ;)
trigger warning is a straw man
I think people are genuinely curious about transgender genitalia. People don't know so they have to use their imagination. And it's about naughty bits and something taboo. Can you really blame people for asking or being curious?
Thx for clarifying the safe space thing :D
I see a lot of comments attacking “free market of ideas” as being capitalists and therefore bad, and yet at the same time the notion of “neo-Marxism” is mocked as being delusional.
That Clockwork Orange reference...
contropoint calm down thing are getting batter
Some black people are discouraged because of racism. But the narrative that the main reason black people are underrepresented in academia is because of these issues is just not true.
I just discovered you a few days ago and I fucking love you. The presentation of your videos is so cool and artistic. I like how you use a lot of evidence in your views and you're clever af.
Black woman: “Isn’t that elitist?” Professor: “Quiet, slave girl!”
I just want as much freedom as possible, and the junkies and milk-perverts are welcome to share it with me.
Just found your channel. You are brilliant!
Hitchens: “What he has to say must have taken him some effort to come up with”  Me: “sounds like capitalist propaganda but alright”
How can trigger warnings restrict free speech when you literally just post the same content with a line and sometimes a way to hide it?
I just got flashed!
Safe Spaces: I have contradictory opinions on some of the below topics. What do other people think? 1.  As a cis gay male, just like ContraPoints, I like going to a gay bar to relax and act anyway I want to act. I won't be called names and I will be surrounded by people who agree with socio-political ideologies like Marriage Equality (with <1%gay-troll dissent which is usually ostracized out anyway) So it's a "Safe Space". Like in the exerpt from "Paddy's Bar", the inclusiveness of a minority is a good thing but "Ideologically Inclusive" it isn't. No gay man likes when "his" local gay bar is overrun by hen-parties (bachelorette parties) because it dilutes the goal atmosphere even though it doesn't take away any 'safety' from the safe-space. 2.  The creation of safe spaces on college campuses is dirided as coddling. But can we just take the air out of the argument by saying that there can be a room where unicorn worshippers can go without anyone making fun of them and Goths can go to their room and jock go to theirs? I mean, what's so complicated about that? In Ireland we have Societies where like-minded folks could hang out together. I was in Choral Soc and Drama Soc. Whats the difference between them and a 'Safe Space'? Like a 'gay bar' concept? It seems that the nomenclature is causing the problem. (Maybe SJWs could learn from the Alt-right about how to further the argument by simply using different words) But the rest of the campus must get along with ordinary college life in the usual chaotic way that life is: a negotiated mutual respect. Gay bars are great (for me) but I don't expect that ALL bars and streets and offices and shops should adopt the same atmosphere that a gay bar not only tolerates but gestates. However, the presence of a gay bar on a street eventually generates first tolerance from the neighbouring businesses and eventually celebration. 3. Ethno Mono-Culturalism is another flavour of the gay-bar / safe space, no? Intellectually, I think it is but emotionally and morally I have an opposite reaction. Why?  As a white in his 40s who grew up in a fairly monoethnic environment but is now living in a very ethnically diverse city, I do find it exhausting trying to remember names of people that I have never heard before; remember newly learned terminology and festivals and rules, curb the (my) normal way of speaking so that I don't cause offense. Don't get me wrong, it's MY PROBLEM that I am so late in learning and it's my learning curve to climb but I cannot deny that it's exhausting. So what does one do if one needs a break from something exhausting? I'd be loathe to find a safe-space for that because it would just be full of bigots. No, I just hang out with real life FRIENDS who know me well enough to not judge my whole character if I slip up on some detail of diverse culture. So I sort of understand why self-identifying "whites" would like to live in a community or even nation of whites. Like I can see why Jewish people wanted their own country. But omfg the implementation and implications!!!! What would that entail??? It's nooooot the the same as opening a gay bar on a street of other bars and cafés.  Finally 4. Safe To Ask Stupid/Offensive Questions  Up until I discovered this FANTASTIC channel, I was so unsure about Transgender issues that I had to be very careful about discussing it as a topic for fear of a) causing offense and b) exposing my ignorance. My silence perpetuated my ignorance. In absence of substantive opinion, I adopted a laissez-faire attitude and an "I don't have to have a detailed opinion" attitude. But when I am asked as a citizen where do I think we as a society should draw the line (hormonal / surgical intervention for pre-teens for e.g.) then it becomes my responsibility as a citizen to INform myself with diverse facts and   EDUcate myself with diverse conversations.  Sorry for the long ramble. Am feeling a bit intellectually isolated in my newly adopted country.
Give me an uncensored version pls.
Fucking slam. Contrapoints is always on (tra) point. Best youtube channel I've stumbled into in a long time
Just found this channel tonight!!! Whaaaaaaat!!!?? Just finished w/ the 5th vid in a row!! I love your... Well... Everything!!
you’re pretty
If a soldier or rape victim need it OK. But if a white man needs it for reading Huckleberry Finn or colored person then fuck off.
The trigger warning and safe spaces are fine. It's the people that abuse these sjw creations that make it absurd.
I didn't just go on an etymological hunt based on seeing "sawamuraa" on a pokemon card at the end, YOU did.
You always manage to make me laugh and think in surprising ways. Thanks
I agree with almost everything you said except for the characterization of the Berkeley rally. And not because it was factually wrong but because it lacked nuance and context. Which I get was not the point of your argument and therefore not essential to elaborate on to make your point. But I’d like to elaborate on it because I do think it’s relevant and important.  The original intent of the protestors wasn’t a riot to scare Milo out of Berkeley. It was a protest to express their own speech against what Milo says and what he represents. And of course they got accused of trying to shut down his speech so then a lot of centrists and conservatives came to his defense. And more importantly so did a bunch of Nazi’s. Among the counter protestors were Identity Europa, Proud Boys, and the Rise Above Movement. All violent white nationalist organizations. In response to their presence Antifa and other leftist organizations mobilized to protect the protestors, the campus and the larger community from fascist incursion and this is when the violence broke out.  Is it factually true that the Milo protest broke out in violence? Yes. It is. But to insist causation simply because of correlation misses all of the additional developments that took place during and in between these two events. You can still choose to disagree with the use of Violence for Deplatforming actual Nazis, but that is a different argument than claiming that the violence was premeditated specifically to deplatform Milo.
Are the cards at the end a sort of code?  BEHOLDINGMAN SIGHTSTHO GseLINDTOSINGS  (The letters "s" and "e" were the first letters of the japanese cards).
I have the exact book by Cooper! Mine still has its dust jacket on though. That was an excellent call out lol. That was surreal what you did to the sound of Erik Saite. I like to sit at my piano and play his music when I'm in the mood for relaxing and unwinding. Really, pleased my favourite piece by him was not used in this video.
You're a transmisogynistic bigot who has no problem perpetuating hatred of queer trans women if they don't access the conditional cis privilege that comes with the credential of outness, and you know it, but you benefit too much from being a good little Aunt Tom to do anything but continue to perpetuate the myth of the Magical Dupe Oppressor Class.
The fight to keep the right to free speech is ultimately only against censorship and punishment by the government.   We are now in a world where you can go to prison for a sentence uttered.   Now there have always been limitations on speech in the form of libel, slander and violent threats. But when comics and people saying things by mistake (without the intention to hurt someone or a reputation) get sentenced to big fines or jailtime for years (now remember, nobody got physically hurt here), there is a problem.
Microaggresions don't exist.
You just picked up a 1up.  I mean a subscriber.
...It says a lot about me that I was not disturbed in the least by that whole thing that happened at the end of the video till you ate the cucumber. Like seriously, who eats cucumbers that way? Apparently ContraPoints.
I love this so much.  Gods yes.
GODDAMN IT I HAVE THAT PLATO ANTHOLOGY
Generally bleeped out rants get more disturbing if you add some non bleeped text that wouldn't be explicit out of context.
Your videos have challenged my viewpoints more than anything I've seen in a long time. I really appreciate that.
How about calling yourself "the most American bar" when there are signs everywhere calling it an Irish pub?
Thank you. I'm in "europe" and where im from we have this freedom of speech limiting law that basically says "Don't incite violence/strong emotion against any race, group of people or a person". And now i understand why it's OK (i was kinda on the fence about the issue but leaning toward censorship). Oh ! I also googled that Asshat Rightwing talkinghead you mentioned, how does he afford that production with 3million views a month ? Marketplace of ideas may the best survive and some funding from rich people.. Where's your rich people funding ?!! Why wont the democrats buy you a vagina !?!
"free market of ideas" ahahahahah. fuck capitalists!
Love the precision of logic and arguments far surpassing most.  I think the legit objections on the right arise when legitimate academics who are not merely trolling like "trickster" Milo are shouted down, deplatformed, physically hit, subjected to vandalism, etc. out of concern for feelings over information.  OF COURSE any person or groups of persons has a right to establish "safe spaces".    Most ethnic groups have set up ethnic pubs, clubs, and coffeehouses -- Hibernians, Germans, etc.  Gay & Trans, of course.  Women-only.  Men-only. Revolutionaries vs Patriots. Libertarians.  For one thing, in-groups often need time and focus to consider their issues and arguments away from being derailed by opponents.  For another, merely being relaxed and comfortable. I hope everyone across the spectrum can agree that attempts to *enforce* mushrooming safe space rules at all times in "the commons" such as lecture halls and academic classrooms, is outside the bounds of the purpose of such spaces.  I think the argument is dangerous that if YOU say or appear to represent some ideas which I believe (pre-judgingly) violates my emotional safe space, I no longer am required to maintain civil discourse when i challenge you.
I caught that explanation.  While "Negro" by itself is not a slur and was once a standard English term used by Black people, in that the literal dictionary meaning is "Black", and there were books by Black academics with the term "Negro" in the title or contents, the term EVOKES an era when dominant mainstream (White) news more often talked ABOUT "The Negro" and when basic rights were very much suppressed.  So the  professor who used that term in class was arguably astonishingly insensitive to nuance and historical context. That is surprising in that one would expect a college professor to NOT be so ignorant about nuance and insensitive but rather of above-average intelligence and sensitive. I *COULD* understand a Law professor quoting verbatim from legal books and publications from an earlier era which would have used the term "Negro" before that fell out of fashion.  It seems necessary then in terms of common courtesy to mention that context when the circumstances (quoting verbatim) necessitates that unfashionable (though not slur) term to be used.
college age leftists are characterized as delicate whiny snowflakes, because leftist ideology is generally characterized as the dominate opinion on college campuses. College is expensive. College kids are rich kids, they are the progeny of the bourgeois. They and everything that they are perceived to stand for is an easy target for ridicule and resentment.
worst cooking channel ever. KEvron
"no racism" rule on 4chan LMAO
"no racism" rule on 4chan LMAO
You even have Pokemon cards. How are you so fucking cool? How am I so late to this beautiful and magnificent show?
I’ll tell you what exasperates me. Reactionaries who’s unstated goal is to maintain the status quo privileged hierarchy. If that was what the freely said we would at least have a debate. Instead they state that all other opinions are bad and that they win all debates by default. Or they make the oppositions arguments for them, badly. Or they just make things up and provide each other with lies to spread like slime that the rest of us are expected to clean up before we can even get to our points.None of these are the worst part. The biggest problem is that the absolutist logic they employ without testing becomes pure fantasy. They are very careful to change  the subject when their logical fantasy falls apart. Not that the audiences seem to notice because their early childhood indoctrination into evangelical Christianity leaves them completely unprepared for rational thought.
you used the music used in rusty lake and it makes me happy
14:56 Hey! Don't do that to me!
You are brilliant!
You were a professor?? I love you so much more
That NewGrounds joke was out of order. Too soon, Contra. Too soon.
Enigma 3 “ Tell me, Leoshi, who is the man in the triangle, who is the triangle man ? “ 1. Butterfree 2. Ekans  3. Hitmonlee  4. Oddish  5. Lapras 6. Dratini 7. Pratini 8. Ivysaur  9. Niodoran 10. Golbat 11. Metapod 12. Aerodactyl 13. Niodorina  14. Pokémon  15. Squirtle 16. Ivysaur  17. Golem 18. Haunter 19. Tauros 20. Shellder 21. Tentacool 22. Haunter  23. Oddish 24. Pokémon  25. Graveler 26. Hitmonlee  27. Bulbasaur 28. Trainer Lass 29. Ivysaur  30. Nidoran  31. Dratini 32. Tangela 33. Omanyte 34. Slowpoke 35. Ivysaur  36. Gloom 37. Nidoran  38. Staryu  Sorry if I spelled anything wrong I am not a Pokémon master : (
So, black people were tough, but now some of them are turning into weak whiners, and no body should say that that trend is bad for black people (actually, some black people do say it here on youtube) because if they were tough once, than we should consider their whining as... being tough too? And you can guarantee that I, for example, cannot know what being tough means just because almost whole family of my grandmother was killed in a concentration camp and my grandparents from  my father's side actually met in another concentration camp, because being black in America is worse than being gas-chambered after months of slave work in a camp? Only because I witnessed dead of my own brother, lost a country and many friends in a bloody war,  lost one child, and have been homeless single mother for a while doesn't mean I can understand toughness of a rich black women who was triggered buy a fucking WORD. Really?
Did you shoot this in a 1996 Quake colored lighting tech demo?
Dave got red pilled, right after he started getting money from the Coke brothers.
When I meet a gay person who has never heard "marriage is only between a man and a woman", I don't think that will be going "too far" but rather "in my future" hopefully.
You're very eloquent, especially those bleeps at the end had such an artistic nuance, that the theatrics almost crossed the fine line between redundant, and toppings on the cake. Such skillful bleeping depicts why everyone need a safe-zone from eachother, just as a picture says more than a 1k of words.
You are a very eloquent speaker and may be my new favorite left leaning point of view. I would definitely like to see you debate someone. It would be especially entertaining to see you debate someone from an opposing view point.
On the boundaries of what someone will and won't say I will refer to the poem by john cooper Clarke some cunt used the nword
Does the thing at the end say "beholding man sights though blind to signs"? Did I mess up? :(
00:13 Illuminati confirmed
I absolutely love your videos. Keep it up.
I don't think that they should not let people speak in public places, but if you have crazy fringe groups causing problems, make them pay for the extra security, not the city or college or whatever.
Yes the left hates free speech, just like how the right hates free speech. Both sides want to live in a world of conformation bias. Everyone is garbage but it really doesn't matter, because we are of no significance to the universe anyway.
You are awsome that's fact!
had trigger warnings show up once in college in the 3 years ive been in uni. and it was because a story described childhood sexual trauma iirc. which... thats a very serious thing
Did you catch the Clockwork Orange reference?
You and dem beads come down to Nola
Enigma 3:  beholdingman sightstho g(2 Japanese cards)lindtosigns  I'm definitely missing a bit
Can I have a safe space from that beeping noise at the end?
Funny, you make a video about trigger warnings, but you give no warning about the fucking awfull bleeps at the end. (Full disclosure: I have sensory issues)
I fucking lost it when the cucumber snapped. A+ vid.
That's a lot of Ivysaurs.
I disagree. Yes bigotry is gaining traction, but having the government decide who goes to jail for what they say is a terrible fucking idea. The reason why white kids don't say the N-word in front of black people is not because they can't say it, it's because they choose not to say it. People should have the choice to be bigoted or not. Taking that away with police and authoritarian enforcement would not only be wrong, but a violation of human rights. Plus, Imagine we did implement that kind of law. Once a bigot gets into power what's to stop him from deciding that he finds your content hateful. Doesnt it make sense to never give  him or anyone at that level of power that ability. Great video, Terrible argument
using iasip to talk about the boundaries of free speech i think i'm in love
I remember first hearing about the 'safe spaces' being on USA schools and universities. My first thought was that is a pretty hardcore solution to the shootings, incorrectly assuming that they were making bullet proof bunkers to deal with all the gun violence. Did the bullet proof bag blanket things ever catch on over there? Asking as a New Zealander.
Yeah, people who complain about trigger-warnings and safe spaces really only do so in the abstract. They're so unfamiliar with the real thing, they probably wouldn't recognize one if they were staring right at it.
Oh, shut up and run for President.  On second thought, don't shut up. That would be stupid, at least if you're running for President.  In fact, ignore everything I say.
This video is filled with lies!  Vitality is not freedom; vitality is what keeps us chained.  No truth can be found in darkness, only lies and confusion.  Cast down the Dark Mother and let the Blinding Fire reign over all!  Let our bodies be consumed by flame so that our souls may be consumed by light, and that we may be free, if only for an instant.
Just watched part 1 and 2, quite entertaining but I'll have to rewatch later to grasp it fully because I was just too tired  I did subscribe though! :D
No public law doesn't equal no rules. A contract limits behavior like public law, it's just voluntary- just like your association or attendance. Also, private rules are different from public law. I can say it's a rule to not say mean things if you want to stay on my property, but I can't say you shouldn't talk like that anywhere or that you don't have the right to talk like that. No one has ever said "no rules!" just no rulers.
Right wingers have had a safe space for hundreds of years: Church.  Maybe we should deny them that safety
0:30 I  6:33 II
The beginning of the video sounds like Far Cry 4.
As far as I understand the issue, it's not that trigger warnings and safe spaces exist - it's that certain groups go ballistic when you don't provide them as they deem necessary.
gawd I hate dave rubin. Thnks for shitting on him in an effective way.
I’ve identified myself as one of the “classic liberals” you’ve described, but your points have made me question my position. Thank you. And thank Lindsey Ellis for sending you another subscriber.
I love how she calls them classical liberals and not libertarians
5:10 The way she describes Dave Rubin sounds an awful like Phil DeFranco
So now that pedophiles are pushing for "equal rights," can society agree to some damn boundaries?  The slope was too slippery and now we will all fall in.
Girl you almost got a thumbs down for that goat comment but I still <3 you.
my big problem with trigger warnings isnt that they "destroy free speech" its that the overuse of them by tumblr for things unrelated to ptsd or similar conditions and the subsequent mocking of this overuse basically destroyed a helpful psychological term  although i guess we still have "content warning" or similar phrases
Safe Spaces are fine when they called "Church" or "the Home", but what if those places aren't safe for you, or if you're on a college campus?  And Trigger warnings have been on TV for decades, although the phrase "Viewer Discretion is Advised" is what's typically used, and it has a similar purpose.  It even has been used to warn about potentially "triggering" content, not just stuff not suitable to kids.  The way people pretend these are new concepts and worthy of contempt infuriates me.
My pokemons, let me show them to you
The part where the cucumber broke was pure comedy gold
These endings are so unnecessary but so funny
We will never be truly free until we can post ponies on /b/
your hair looks a bit grey, but I can only guess what the white balance in your camera is doing with those heavy colored lights.. is it a blonde hair?
That one is better.
Honestly I doubt many people on the right are gonna listen to you. Their fragile masculinity might crumble and they might spontaniously start craving dicks in their mouths from the sheer sight of a trans person. I myself am starting to feel a little... Oh no... Can't... Resist... Dicks... Diiicks... Diiiiicks
If there was ever a question of what degeneracy is,  it's the McPoyles.
10:54
This is the best conclusion of any essay I've ever seen
It seems like people don't want to admit that freedom requires safety and safety requires freedom but that safety and freedom sometimes are in conflict so things become messy and nuanced and we have to talk about the best way to resolve the conflicts or something. lol
Very interesting and challenging. I shall have to think about this.
Contrapoints was fucking spot on when it came to safe spaces
Again, it's sophistry to equivalate Milo being no-platformed by outside protesters (left) and Milo being dis-invited by the C-pac people who had invited him themselves (right). Your channel is interesting, but you are hurting your case with these sophistries.
“They’ve been much tougher than you I guarantee it” that made my whole night! I’m sick with the flu and I’ve been binging your videos I love it lol
You’re makeup looks better than mine ever does lol I’m jealous
Yeah.... I'm not sure if truth and justice will prevail either. I think about that a lot. I'm 99% certain it will not prevail, we can try and extend "peace" but maintaining it, in my estimation, is impossible. We're monkys on a dying planet in a dying universe. But, we still have to try to make the best of it and help each other!
And what's this? People are up in arms over Alex "Sandy Hook was a hoax" Jones being banned from Youtube? Say it ain't so!
Oh I get it.....you're making a point
Stand up for the Bronies!
Here is the viewpoint of somebody who thinks the left does compromise free speech sometimes: I agree with this video series completely, but you seem to have made some "cherry picking", intentionally or not, of the situations you argued with. People who have to run out of a a room crying should by all means be protected, and the claim to "preserve free speech" only to then outright silence other viewpoints and discriminate people until they bring forth no resistance anymore is idiotic. Free speech should be as universal as possible, to preserve democracies and their main strength, the indiscriminatory evaluation of ideas for a better society. What some of the more moderate accusers of leftist free speech limitation argue, is not that people should just put up with racist language, but rather that some parts of the left now use the claim "you are a racist" to discriminate viewpoints. This is honestly terrifying, because the result of these accusations isn't a "just put up with it" situation. There are people losing their jobs, or even going to jail over these comments. That is at least what I am talking about, when I am saying the left compromises free speech. Don't get me wrong, the extremist right does the same thing in their echo chambers, the only problem is that we cannot differentiate what is extremist left and moderate left, and most governments and organisations associate with the moderate left. As such the right does not have these consequences on peoples lives when they brand someone an immigrant or something of the sort. If the left could distance themselves from the people who are intolerant towards other opinions, then I am pretty sure that the reasonable people wouldn't argue about the justification of discrimination under the banner of free speech.
Just discovered your channel via your collab with Lindsey Ellis 👍 I'm thoroughly entertained and better informed thanks to you
Lost in the rabbit hole of contrapoints
Im my nation, saying "negro" is a polite way of adressing black people while "black" is usually considered rude in formal conversation.
Not only is your video great   but your hair is too! seriously it looks so soft!
mi esposa contrapoints <3
How the hell did you end up with my pokemon card collection? Seriously, though, that Haunter card is my hands down favorite pokemon card and was a big reason why haunter is my favorite pokemon. and I don't care that this has nothing to do with your amazing and well thought out points about free speech and the inherent contradictions of attempting to guarantee freedom of speech to everyone.
what is your POV on deplatforming of people like Germaine Greer?
safe spaces are ridiculous and encourage weakness so I'm very confident.
I mean the concept of the university as this closed space of learning from whence all good ideas must flow is elitist nonsense. Destroy the academy and redistribute the right to learn and participate.
Ugh, disgusting. You actually eat the skin of cucumbers?!  Seriously though, great couple videos :D ... But like, i could totally buy you a vegetable peeler or something. Cucumbers taste much better without the skin.
People should realize that trigger warning are a form of speech that the right wants to silence.
I will stand up for the bronies
I was watching a Rubins Report where a guest was talking briefly about ContraPoints, so I came to see what was up.  Really love the ideas presented here as well.  It really feels like she should guest on Rubins show.  Both spaces are worthy of viewing and help to bring thoughtful conversations to the forefront.
microagretions aren't real
you are the holy mountain
Plato's allegory of the cave was a very insightful philosophy thought experiment... but then again, Plato was a misogynistic asshole who thought woman had no place in theater and consider them harlots. Is good to learn from the past and not make their same mistakes.
What the right wants is no pushback.  If they were really interested in liberal values then they would be more inclusive. They want protection for abusers and not the abused.
Yo Contra is mad cute.
The library in my town is my safe space
Did Contra get ripped to fight in the class war? Looking good, girl!
The worst that the "Free marketplace of ideas" can be is the best of a bad situation.
4chan does have a MLP forum, so yes /pol/ and /mlp/ can coexist on the same site for some reason. That makes it the most american site on the internet so far, without counting /tor/ network sites.
More of this sort of thing.
I find it somehow distressing that you will now (presumably) need a new cucumber for whatever it was you intended to do with it. I notice you didn't give a trigger warning before that section of your video.
Right ideals thrive on the ideals of sociopathy. Leftism thrives on empathy on the other hand. We will always have sociopaths and empaths, there will always be fighting between the two, and it feels like right wingers are being dicks, it's probably because they are.
Did the professor actually say the n word or just negro?
The statement at 14:17 resounds so true and is the reason I favorited the video! After that, the ending just had me rolling in my bed with hilarity!!
Is that the actual audio recording of your biting that cucumber?
Okay, but people on the left try to "deplatform Nazis" like the kippah-wearing Nazi Ben Shapiro. Unless people stop shrieking and smashing windows like mental patients and actually take the time to listen to people that they're certain are "Nazis" like Ben, how will they eventually come to the conclusion that calling moderate conservatives "Nazis" is wrong (as in morally wrong, and also wrong in the "blatantly incorrect" kind of way)? Silencing people like that is scarier to me than the sad basement-dwelling Nazi resurgence that you seem to be concerned about.
I love your hair and I I've your muscles in like damn girl I wish I was as fit.
I'd like to speak with your parents, please.  Thank you.
Scotch and zucchini. That's a kink I've never seen before.
Rule 34 MLP is probably acceptable anywhere.
Ayyyy Tibetan throat signing, that's my shit right there!
You look so beautiful in this video.
Hey Natalie (yes, I looked up your Youtube profile for info and found what appears to be your RL name and am now addressing you by name in a calculated effort of hopefully increasing the probably slim chances of you reading this),  I am very glad I found your videos. I like to consider myself a social liberal and a progressive, and I think I am mature enough and steadfast enough in my core principles to remain such for the foreseeable future or until death. However one issue you brought up in your video (in part 1 of this 2-part series actually) was eye-opening to me as to how my perspective on SOME things was skewed and just off. It's when you pointed out how people who complain that being called racist/sexist/homophobic is ostracizing or even censorship (dumb) should have the mental capability to also understand how being exposed to actually racist/sexist/homophobic rhetoric and social pressure can and will discourage and silence a lot of people on the opposite side of some arguments. It works both ways. How advocacy of free speech can't really be neutral because certain people or groups will always encourage some forms of speech over others resonated with me.  That seems so obvious, yet it wasn't to me, or at least not something I considered much. Thank you for reminding me to stay skeptical and critical. I had been influenced by my consumption of videos by for instance TJ Kirk whom I once found entertaining and actually engaging... before he jumped the shark and became intellectually lazy and complacent and subsequently faded into relative obscurity compared to his glory days. I noticed in your videos you put him in the "shitlord" category. Accurate, I suppose. I also watched the occasional video by other moderate yet definitely "anti-SJW" channels, even though I'm glad I was always discerning enough to not pay heed to douchebags with avatars of historical monarchs and suit-clad masked figures and such. Not more than once at least. One time was usually sufficient.  From what I have seen I really enjoy your perspective and approach, I would love to hear your thoughts on a different topic, if it's at all of interest to you: the alt-right boogeyman of the "liberal mainstream media".   PS.: I loved your German in another video. Your pronounciation isn't half bad.
I wonder if youd say the same thing about milos celebrity today. I'd forgotten all about that dickface
Pouring one out for all the needlessly censored 🅱️ronies.
"I don't have faith that good facts and arguments will be enough;" I'm at a loss for words to explain how deeply that resonated with me. My major area of concern is climate change, and the fact that we live in a country where a significant portion of the population believes it's a hoax. If they won't accept "just because it snowed doesn't mean climate change isn't real," what else can I do?  Thank you for making these. I've only just started watching your content, and I'm always amazed by how nuanced your theses are. The theatricality of the whole show is wonderful as well; you must have quite the prop closet!
Thanks!
WORD.
Milo is just a twit. I am not of the left, but I can't stand him, such a poseur. My house is a safe space. But not for idiots. I'm dressed as a girl, kawaii is what I like, I am 59.  And my daughter comes into the bedroom, I'm bearded, bad teeth, old, and dressed in frilly bloomers and a matching top. She asks me to turn off the wand and if I want anything from the shop. And can she have some money, please? And a can of coke? They are, by the way, in their twenties. I did keep it quiet when they were younger. The thing is, if I do this, they know there is nothing to fear, they can be whoever they like. As long as they don't moan about it.  They know I do not give a flying fuck who they are. My love for them is set in concrete. I wish people would stop going on about gender/sexuality shit, it has nothing to do with anything in our world. And in places where it does, the sensibilities of some oppressive elite who burn us or throw us off buildings seems to take precedence among those who claim to be liberated progressives.
Rubin used to be more progressive. I know exactly when things changed, and it's this video from 2016: https://youtu.be/IFqVNPwsLNo?t=24m10s He had Larry Elder on, and when bringing up the topic of systemic oppression (link should take you to 24m10s), Elder asked for specific examples and Rubin tried but was not able to come up with convincing enough examples. To be fair, Elder seemed like a very tricky opponent (and I myself wouldn't be able to out-debate him, at least with my current knowledge/skills).  But yeah ever since then Rubin's been challenging guests less and drifting further right. What I think Rubin needs is to see someone smart enough refute the points Elder made in that interview. If anything might get him to reconsider his views once again, that would be it.
Really enjoy contrapoints. generally spot on, with sometimes minor points I disagree with. which is why im just commenting about the safe spaces thing. I dont have a problem with like a place where homophobia isnt tolerated. However Ive seen like 2 instances where safe spaces ment no straight people I dont like allowed, and although this is anticdotical It still is something ive experienced and is part of the reason I started to listen to people like DR JP and Ruben. just felt some dumb need to address this, cause other than that I really enjoy this content and have been binging on contrapoints tonight. 4:10 am      thanks buh bye
6:35 Contra your left ear thing is missing one of its dangly things and I couldn't think about anything else for the whole video. edit: weirdly enough at 14:00 the dangly thing is back and I missed the entire video wondering where it came from. This is the true censorship.
I LOVE YOU
I've been critical of the idea of safe spaces in the past.  But in this context I changed my mind.  If a safe space is a place where you can retreat, I understand.  In a way, conservatives have been arguing for safe spaces all along.  The "lame stream" media a hostile space for conservative ideas.  Conservatives want places to go where they aren't being called labeled racist or xenophobic or homophobic for expressing right-of-center views.  Consequently, the rise of Fox or Breightbart.  I can accept limited safe spaces but there should be rational boundaries.  It's logical to put a roof over a classroom ... it's ridiculous to put a dome over the whole campus.  Environments that you are compelled to be in should be safe or moderately safe.  Environments you opt to be in don't have the onus of being safe ... you have the option to leave.  The analogy of the professor constantly using the word negro to the dislike of the 1 black philosophy student.  That's difficult.  The best outcome is probably the current outcome.
Am I in love? Yes, I think I am.
I think you lack an understanding of why people are against safe spaces, most people aren't against safe spaces as an idea and most people understand their purpose in society as you brought up like places were being gay was ok back in the day, what most people are talking about is safe spaces in college and university classrooms these are places where your views and ideas should be challenged but a lot of younger college and university students are calling for their classes to be safe spaces because they don't want their views and ideas to be challenged which creates a really bad echo chamber effect, seeing the other side of the coin is incredibly important i personal have yet to agree with you on any of your videos I've seen but i will still watch them to see how the other side of the coin thinks in a clean uncut version but alot of the people wanted colleges to be these big safe spaces often won't go and watch the opposite side. And as for the general point of how free speech isn't always the perfect because as i understood from what you said bigotry can be used to silence someone, and i think everyone here can agree being a hateful person is not ok you should never hate someone for their skin colour or sex or what ever it might be but the issue with hate speech laws and rules and other such things is they are just a line in the sand that can be erased and redrawn when ever someone fells like up here in Canada we have hate speech laws with i disagree with at a fundamental level not because i want to be racist but because while yes right now it's only for legitimate cases of being hateful what's to stop the government from deciding tomorrow that saying you don't like the new star wars trilogy is hate speech and this is why i disagree with hate speech laws you are giving the government power to decide what you can and can't say which no government should have that power
I want you to dress up like princess Celestia and give me friendship lessons :D
That piano piece was used in my favourite horror game and I can barely pay attention to the video because of it lol.
You're definition of a safe space actually does fit the reactionary and neo-fascist definition of why they erode free speech and no one is entitled to a space where free speech is subjected to limitations because of previous trauma or the potential for additional verbal abuse.
Can someone explain to me the comment Cooper made about slave women in the garden of epicuris? I don't have any context on what means.
macdennis lesbians rise
I very much enjoyed this video, and am happy that there's finally been a response to all these "classical liberal" reactionaries, a reactionary-reactionary ironic enough. While I do think the free speech complaint by conservatives is overstated, as you've shown, I do think there is an issue of oversensitive liberals. Examples that come to mind are the Evergreen debacle, the Berkley riots, and the woodrow wilson/princeton school. I won't call them "the death of free speech", but they are issues in my opinion.
You cannot just demand or expect social acceptance. You have to make yourself into a person who can be accepted, there's no real way out of human nature. And don't get me wrong, there's more than one way to gain it, but you have to realize that if you choose to take on minority traits, or just simply have them, people with majority traits will naturally prefer you less. And a trait can be anything, like sex, sexual preference, or race, but it can also be things like how you dress, speak, what your opinions are, and INFINITE other things. The responsibility is yours alone to find a way to fit into society, not a burden for others... And to disagree with that is likely inherently narcissistic.
Some valid points - but rather complacent. Last March, I was involved in a situation where a Transwoman Cosmic Claire (and family friend)was shut down at a UK-based Literary Festival and prevented from publicising a book they were writing. For further details please go to https://www.youtube.com/user/ClaireSapphyck  I  personally vouch for the accuracy of their content as I witnessed some of the events described.
It's possible to object to trigger warnings for benign reasons.  I don't like them because it's basically putting a coating of foam rubber over the world, except it's imaginary and nobody has to actually follow it.  If I can actively harm you just by mentioning or speaking in any degree of depth about rape or abuse, that's bad, and making it easier for you to be that way is bad for you.  Maybe I'm not an asshole and maybe I won't keep doing it, but there's no power in the universe that can force other people to do so, so all my trigger warning does is leave you just as crippled as you were to begin with.  If you're going to exist in any sort of unmoderated public space, you HAVE to be able to encounter that stuff without it causing active harm to you.  I have things I can't deal with.  Fuck it - I have Dissosciative Identity Disorder and a hell of a lot of baggage that I carry around and any time one of The Bad Fellas gets into the passenger seat it can really fuck up my night.  Or week.  Or more.  That's not other people's problem, though, and I don't want them to make it theirs.  If I'm not healthy enough to deal with any person potentially talking about anything, then I'm not healthy enough to be in a free society.  I need to go somewhere and get better.  In that regard, I'm actually a fan of safe spaces that aren't being championed by ignorant undergraduate dipshits who just want some way in which they can be victimized to wear like some kind of festive hat, so long as they're places that help you to get better.  But you need to get better.  You can't nerf the world, no matter how much you might like to, and anything that makes it easier for people to pretend in error that they have somehow been made safe when you've really just thrown a sheet over the tiger is bad.  So that's why I don't like them, anyway.
That ending was perfect
I came in to this 2 part video series expecting to encounter the usual shit sjw arguements but i actually came out with a bit of a new take on freedom  i love that instead of attacking the arguements with just a counter arguments you go into the underlying problem to why there's 2 views on it (like that freedom is by the hands that claim it)  of course i think some of your counter arguements are a bit underdeveloped. like the one from i think part 1 talking about how conservatives and classical liberals hate taking "microaggresions" in forms of being called a racist and islamophobe and stuff like that, while compleately ignoring that the same kind of microaggressions happens to trans and blacks etc via youtube comments which makes the individuals in question discouraged from making videos. The reason i think it's undeveloped is becouse misoganistic comments is something that you dont have to read while being called racist when speaking in universaties takes time from the people in the audience that came there to listen becouse you cant stop listen to speech in the same way you can stop "listening" to text.  All and all it was a great 2 part video series and definantly deserves a like from me
The whole uproar over trigger warnings has always puzzled me. Mostly because whenever I see or hear "trigger warning" or "content warning" the message I receive is not "look away, children" but "okay, we're about to discuss some adult shit so put your adult ears on".
13:31 YAY ERIK SATIE!
Contra, you are an international treasure.  Also, fuck Christopher Hitchens right in his rotting, bloated, mysoginistic, hypocritical ass.
That poor cucumber.
Lmao, "classical liberals" say look at history when someone talks for communism but then say stuff like the "free marketplace of ideas"
this is such good shit!
14:00 how the fuck did you know my name was Dave?
This whole video is also a false comparison.  It says that "freedom" as a concept is engendered in defense of specific actions, when in fact Specific freedoms are defended.  It's not about the freedom to do Anything, regardless of what it is.  In fact specifically the reason a societal construct works at all and we gather together rather than going off and doing our own thing is because we can find rules for behavior (limitations on freedom) which make it more advantageous for us to do so than to not do so.  Not killing each other or stealing from each other being prime examples of limitations on freedom which are considered acceptable.  This whole thing though does not preclude certain freedoms from being protected.  The freedom of speech, and the freedom to express your ideas in a public space, is Not the same as rampant, carte blanche freedom to do anything anywhere at any time.    The second segment you get into also harkens back to my comment on your first video, and is entirely fallacious.  The reason that 4chan, as well as any other site, has terms of services which abridge the right to free speech, is because it's privately owned.  There are NO public spaces online, no forums owned by the government which allow people to actually post freely.  And yes I know that such forums, without regulations, would instantly degenerate into spam bots and flame wars (though ironically porn wouldn't be a problem there due to public decency laws).  The whole idea though is that since the constitution only protects against the government restricting, and the internet is how people communicate, and the internet is, effectively, 100% privately owned, the internet, touted often as the freest of the free, is actually one place where free speech doesn't truly exist at all.  The issue of universities cancelling what you consider to be trolls with no intellectual value, and one wherein it's about who is "made to feel welcome or unwelcome", is again promoting a false equivalency.  It postulates that since someone saying offensive things makes someone else feel unwelcome, it is acceptable to actually remove the ability of someone else to speak at all.  It says that someone else's Comfort is more worth protecting than another's right to speak At All.  Again, it's a premise with which I fundamentally disagree.  Provide me an example of Actual Equivalence, as in someone on the left being disallowed to speak At All because of the offense they caused to say white students or christians, and I will similarly defend their right to speak even if others disagree with them or find them offensive.  But this false equivalence you continue to try to propagate just isn't true and doesn't work.  As far as trigger warnings and safe spaces- trigger warnings are fine, and I see no legitimate argument against them at all.  They are often used to demean and mock college students, but there is no argument I've ever seen that somehow they are an infringement upon free speech in any way.  As to safe spaces, again, it's not a free speech issue, but I will point out that setting up a space wherein you specifically exclude others on the basis of their race and / or gender so that you can talk freely among your newly segregated echo chamber hearkens back directly to the white male only country clubs of yore and is just as egregious.  The goal of the civil rights movement was to end segregation and separated spaces.  There is absolutely NO justification I can see for the existence of such spaces now to be touted as "progress", and they seem to be a blatant violation of the constitution and civil rights legislature at a basic level.  Again, the idea of a "safe space" as in one where abuse against the speakers is not tolerated is one thing.  Actively restricting who can enter a public space on the basis of their race or gender is a different thing entirely.  As an aside I certainly don't think it's healthy to deliberately construct an echo chamber, which is what safe spaces are at a fundamental level, but unhealthy and illegal are two different things, and it's those that cross the line into the latter that I would have issues with.  Honestly I watched both of your videos, and my conclusion remains- you may not Hate free speech, but you definitely don't believe in it as a value worth defending.  But hey, I engaged.
You're so pretty and smart jesus im shookth
You put an ice cube in that whiskey  *on purpose*  , didn't you?! ;)
You might be the sexiest leftist
I think comparing internet forums to college campuses is a bit of a false analogy because college campuses are people's residences.  If you're on the internet and you want to post pony pictures, it takes two seconds to click away from /b/ and go to Ponychan or /mlp/ to post to your heart's desire, but if you live on campus and your views don't meet college speech codes, you're completely silenced, even in the privacy of your own home.  And I think part of what makes safe spaces such an anathema for some is when people try to extend their safe spaces to include the homes and forums of others.
I think you wouldv'e been great on the Munk debate (May 2018). For one thing you would have actually addressed the moot.
I thought I was smart but then I found your channel and well, I'm not. I love your videos
I don't buy this guaranteed audience and platform...especially as it's chief proponents as you pointed out don't even truly believe it. Hitchens certainly made me feel clever for being an athiest...but almost all his views were deeply repugnant. And incredibly hypocritical. To which he would often respond with basically "Tough shit" he was allowed to be completely hypocritical because he was Christopher Hitchens and to hell with what any plebs think.  But rant about Hitchens aside, the idea that anyone can demand the right to not only say whatever they want WHEREVER they want...but also that I HAVE to listen to them?  That's some grade A garbage that only someone like Hitchens would say. Damn I'm back on him again...
I believe wholeheartedly in the free market of ideas. Ideas should be permitted to enter the market and live or die on their own merits. Even irrational ideas.   If your ideas enter that market and then immediate prompt protests (another form of speech), then it's pretty clear your ideas don't have what it takes.   And don't be pessimistic about the future: Remember, the world is more just and righteous now than it was in 1930, despite massive efforts by the Nazis to fuck it up on a scale today's alt-right can (literally) only fantasize about. The history of mankind has a decidedly leftward tilt to it.
Great job! Thank you
FINALLY! Thank you <3
12:03 Another good response to Hitchens here is the pragmatic handling of cranks in biology and physics. These are less politically charged contexts, and still, both of these fields are under constant siege by an army of obvious cranks. It's infeasible and pointless to give every one of them a soapbox since there will always be an endless parade of people who think they've debunked the theory of relativity even though they regard "math stuff" as a frivolous sideshow. In an extremely dogmatic sense though, if time, energy, and mental bandwidth were infinite, perfect "scientific rigor" might require us to hear all of them out and yet no one seriously advocates this idea because it's plainly foolish. The barrier to entry for public discussion of politics and social justice is lower and there aren't obvious objective indicators for who has put serious thought into their ideas, but there are still cranks and it still would be absurd to spend every hour trying to seriously discuss unserious topics like "the Jewish question".
That was great.
This is *so* good. Thnaks especially for referencing Hitchens, whose work I continue to find frustrating and very hard to dismiss.
4:44-4:55 I really don't think contra understands free speech... But, basically, if you can muster an audience then you can have a platform.   8:39-9:16  Conservatives aren't taking over campuses by having events, professors are not insensitive by quoting the past as it was, and you do not have to attend any events or even listen to them if you know it will upset you... But, be warned that, if you attend ANY event, you have to follow their rules. And, in your events, they would have to do the same.  On the subject of safe spaces, I completely agree. Its so stupid for conservatives to shit talk safe spaces when all these other republican free speech zones are nothing but conservative safe spaces themselves!   Bottom Line: If you feel ignored and want to speak your mind, then you can rally an audience and make criticisms on YOUR platform (like now.) However, you cannot debate them on their platform unless they allow it or have the event be specifically about debate.
Hey contrapoints you should call yourself contradicting miself
4:44 What makes this tricky in my mind is that apparently students or faculty are inviting people like Yiannopoulos and Coulter to speak. I wish those people wouldn't be invited, and I support the protests against those people speaking, but I'm hesitant to go as far as say university administration should intervene to disinvite these people. I don't want to be a useful idiot who enables these people but as long as members of your community want to hear them speak and they're not advocating violence, it's hard to think of a robust reason to deplatform them other than I strongly disagree with them.
Have we established that Milo isn't making serious arguments wrapped in humour? He's just self-promoting, I don't think he's some great thinker, but the reason he's so successful might have something to do with the culture of the left, and it's something you touched on in your video about Anita Sarkeesian I really like you Contra. I think a lot of your criticisms of right-wing culture are valid, and you do tend to give credit where it's due. I hope my reaching out as a Conservative might encourage people on your side to consider taking right-wing channels more seriously (m recommendations are 1791L, Aydin Palladin, and Shinobi Yaka)
Nice arms, girl.
I think a good example of when the idea of safe spaces went too far was the disciplinary hearing of Lindsey Shepard. If you don't want to search it up, she was a teacher assistant who showed  a university class a clip from a debate aired on national television in Canada. Because the topic was about pronone use she was called into a disciplinary hearing where a school administrator accused her of doing something illegal. Would love to hear your thoughts on this instance ContraPoints!
I think the speech crowd is open to arguments about why trolls, e.g. Milo, shouldn't be invited or shouldn't be taken seriously, and would welcome those viewpoints in open debate. Just as you rightly point out that centrists often provide cover for bigots and fascists by defending their speech, arguments like yours often provide cover to authoritarians on the far left. I've long argued that social justice makes unnecessary enemies out of centrists, considering most agree with the core mission of the socjus movement. It's not the fault of centrists that social justice activists find themselves at odds with the liberty crowd, and it's purely a matter of questionable methods employed by an admittedly small fringe subset of social justice folks. If the more moderate majority of the social justice movement was a little less defensive about critique, and a little more proactive about discouraging fringe members discrediting the movement, the free speech crowd wouldn't have much to complain about, frankly. I hope you do Rubin, I'd love to watch.
I am disturbed by how the elites are teaching philosophy today Philosophy is for everybody To Limited to Western thought saddens me greatly
Why do you have so many Ivysaur?
GAY RICH MAC
Classical liberals are as annoying as hell. Its as if they have forgotten why the likes of L. T. Hobhouse and T. H. Green, helped create New Liberalism in the first place.
I think the problem is people taking something good and just abusing the shit out of it until it no longer resembles the good thing it started out as. By abuse, I mean when you protest someone like Milo and then the next day protest Jordan Peterson and say it's for the same reason. Or, say we create a safe space to talk about women's rights and during the conversation someone makes a joke about my big nose (I have a pretty large nose) and then I make a big deal about my feelings being hurt which completely derails the conversation. My point is we should all take a minute and think about things before we react. There needs to be some discipline and forethought - because if everything is a big deal, soon nothing will be.
Very well articulated, but I completely disagree.
You... mood.. lit.. the ... toilet.
Wow, the ending of this video was unpleasant.  Between the constant loud beeping and consumption of raw zucchini (please let that be a zucchini and not a freakishly deformed cucumber) I was cringing the whole way through.  Interesting points though.
Nice pokemon cards :)
Truth and justice- the American way- will prevail. So long as there are voices like yours, it is inevitable.
pretty sure the "free marketplace of ideas" hypothesis has been disproved by now.
there was no trigger warning for reminding me that i cant post brony shite on 4chan, is sad i am.
Is it kosher to point out that she is, well, dashing?
I've never understood the controversy around trigger warnings, it's basically just a more organised way of doing what people have been doing for years. "By the way there are a lot of bloody images in this one so look away now." Yeah it's more top down, but how is asking for a little more consideration a bad thing?
ContraPoints, if we censor our vestigial erotica haw will the best smut cum out on top
Unless David Brooks and Joe Scarborough get banned from college, I won't believe that the conservatives are being censored by the left.
Your abstract guess to why 4chan bans ponyfans is pretty spot on. We did the same thing for fans of Touhou (shooter series with poorly-drawn anime girls: see /jp/), and there were always rules against posting edgy garbage outside /pol/ and /b/; too bad we switched horses midstream.
Do you have an uncensored version of that bit from 14:47 on?
That bar is a private property and thus can make it's own rules. As long as they don't violate the law, there is no problem. And Free Speech doesn't come into play here because it's not a public forum - that being any public space such as streets, parks, malls, etc. That's why no-one can arrest you when you are making a peaceful protest even if what you say is against what super consensus deems insane (as long as you are not instigating violence). That's why you can restrict anyone from talking certain things on a college campus and allow 4chan to restrict what is allowed on their website, because it's a private property.  If a university wants to allow saying "negro" they should be able to. And if black people who are offended by it don't want to be in such an environment, they don't have to. When you enter a university you can read all the rules regarding speech if that's something you care about. If there is no inherent rule against such speech, then don't be surprised if someone uses it, or be surprised and stay or be surprised and leave. A university or a college that aren't considered public forums should be able to do whatever the fk they want when it comes to their rules, just like any private property. But in ones that aren't considered public forums, you are not allowed to limit speech. So again, to the offended one, just go to a university that does not allow that kind of speech if that is what is bothering you. And you can boycott certain professors for what they've done, and people that believe in your criticism will join. And if there are enough voices (most likely there will be), then the professor will have to either change his ways, retire or maybe even be replaced by someone that is deemed more competent by the hiring staff. And if none of that happens then you can boycott that institution as a whole, forcing them to do something about it or something.  These problems are exactly why I do not think any university/college should be held by the government. Because these kinds of institutions are indeed public forums and thus are impossible to regulate in terms of speech. This makes the "racist" professor protected by law in a place where people pay to study. That is not okay. Unlike a street or a park, it costs money, and this creates a problem (such as the one with the black girl) because you are essentially being robbed of your money in a public space if you do not wish to be there for one reason or another.  I don't see any problem with 'safe spaces' in the way you described them. They seem extremely reasonable. But they cannot be demanded unless it's in a private place. I also agree on how many right wingers are talking about these things without actually understanding them or seeing how hypocritical they are.
There is more than one Gymnopedie? WHAAAT???!!!!
my pony brethren will not be silenced any longer!
oh shit was that an homage to the holy mountain????
Beholdingman(X)sightstho(X)ghblindtosigns Beholding many sights though blind to signs
eeugh. Cucumber - the spolier of salads
At the end I was momentarily terrified you were going to bite into the pineapple.  Also, it's been a long time since I've seen someone as non-reactionary and reasonable as you on youtube and I'm loving it! I can't even remember the last time I saw a video where someone responded to an opposing argument without being immediately dismissive.  I'm watching your backlog right now and every one of your videos has made me think about a perspective I hadn't considered before. You're genuinely helping make the world a better place. Please never stop.
The right wing speakers were stopped from speaking to a crowd who wanted to hear what they had to say by pressure groups who said they were fascists. There is a clear difference between that and having boundaries in your day to day life. The leftists stop other people from hearing them
The best catharsis I've have in a month! Thank you!
You sure do do a lot of A Clockwork Orange references.
I'd always heard that Always Sunny was about dumb people but was itself smart, and I'd always taken it with a grain of salt. But that was actually pretty damn smart.
Oh suddenly Contra does not lilke the world of  million little Hitlers she advocates for. WHAT AND IDIOT LOL.
So what you are saying is we can't say you are really a man?
Contra is bigotophobic.
Free Speech definition: What ever is required to allow me to dress as a woman in public. Objection to allow C to get fucked in the ass. I'll shorten that. Free speech is the ability to C to get fucked in the ass.
sorry you can't your self created fiction to define reality, it is not a valid argument and you have put forward so shit ones. 4chan rule are I assume self imposed, if i ran it it would not have any but I guess like them i get a visit from the cops. I am not afraid of word or pictures
You made me check my own copy of Plato's Complete Works and yes, it's the Cooper one—suddenly it feels illicit XD  (psst... shall I burn it? XD)
pathetic video so bad logic.
Contrapoints, those flagging your video are exercising free speech, or rather the free censorship you desired.
If you tweeted Dave Rubin he would have you on his show to discuss all this. I would love to see that.
One of my Computer Engineering Professors was a brony, and proud of it. He would stick images of the Ponies in between slides randomly. Always gave us a good laugh in class. I 100% support freedom of Brony on our college campuses.
The OBVIOUS problem with saying universities shouldn't be hosting trolls is that Milo is only a "troll" by YOUR definition. It's why hate speech laws are fucking stupid because who gets to actually define hate speech? Jordan Peterson pointed out that if you're inclined to make such laws then you should first assume that the people defining hate speech are people who want to shut you down, and that 15 second intellectual exorcise is all that's needed to really get to grips with why it's such a stupid idea. Certainly a condition for imposing restrictions on speech or speakers at university should be ones which don't devolve into all speech being shut down otherwise what is the point of free speech? Which is essentially what you risk when you play this game.  There are many of us that reject assertions that right wing speakers are "trolls" and find their ideas a useful part of the broader debate. And I also find this assertion that free speech is only defended when it's something the right care about. People like Dave and Milo can be found saying that they defend everyone's right to free speech and that's why you do not see right wing people shutting down left wing discussion. Where as this is the norm for right wing speakers on campuses these days.  4chans rules are there largely for functional reasons and legal reasons, there are laws they have to abide by such as keeping illegal content off the site, so there's rules not to post such content. There's also containment boards for things like MLP like there is for any other sufficiently popular topic,  that's not a restriction for free speech it's simply a way of filtering content into specific areas so it can be browsed more easily.  Breitbart didn't no-platform Milo, he stepped down. And Breitbart is a private publication not a pubic educational institution and private businesses can hire whoever they want. And the fact that the left trying to silence Milo made him more popular was entirely to do with how fundamentally stupid these people are, they do not understand things like the Streisand effect. It's exactly the same thing when it comes to the popularization of far right groups. The left hate these groups yet they're responsible for creating them, they've created a condition where instead of debating their ideas they shut other people out of the conversation and those people no platformed, guess where they have a tendency to go, and it's no where moderate.  I don't think anyone has made the argument that safe spaces are a problem for free speech. If you want to stick your metaphorical head in the sand then that's your choice. But it does highlight a problem with the gentile snowflakes on the left, and that is it's being used as an alarm bell that there's these people "traumatized" by say a political slogan like MAGA written on campus in chalk. And therefore because they've been traumatized that fundamentally this expression must be "traumatizing" and so that's hate speech, so lets ban that. And actually if you look at the relevant clinical literature, what you find is that safe spaces aren't helping these people, it's only making them less able to cope in a world where they obviously are unable to cope to begin with. Exposure therapy is generally what would be recommended by clinical psychologists.
I absolutely adore your script omg at the end especially
Slippery slopes abound.
Really interesting points. I am a new fan. (I was referred here by Thomas Smith from SIO Podcast).
You mental midget, if your sick ideology isn't prevailing against others on an even playing field then either you are an incompetent spokesperson or your just wrong.
Philosophy grad student at Princeton, thats pretty impressive for a degenerate pervert.
8:00 my high school teacher does that too (she also says the armenian genocide was exaggerated by "y*llow journalism")
Idk what's more beautiful, your beautiful body or your intellect <3
I like trigger warnings on things because I don't like being freaked out by unexpected stories of rape, extreme violence, or abuse. I like getting a full 8 hours of sleep at night tyvm. Just like NSFW tags, just like TV ratings. If I choose to view the media I like to at least know if something mature is going to come up or not.
Those are some mighty shoulders you have.
Vitality is the milk of the wolf
Hell yeah they do! If I say obesity shouldn't be encouraged because it is proven to be linked to cancer, people from the left lose their shit. FYI I'm have a left point of view.
I know this video is old(ish) but I have some anecdotal evidence for anyone who cares. Natalie specifically mentioned that as a professor she never heard anyone use trigger warnings. I'm a college student (living in Alabama at that) and my English Literature professor had just recently used the the phrase "trigger warning" in an sincere context. She warned the class that Chaucer's "Wife of Bath's Tale" might be triggering as it contains references to rape. She even used the phase "trigger warning verbatim. I'm not sure if that is representative of any social changes or anything. Just though someone might find this interesting.
Look, most safe spaces are perfectly ok, safe spaces at high alcohol environments for those who feel in endangered by the mount of drunkenness? A-ok, safe spaces that exclude men because men pose an automatic threat? Out right bigoted.
While I don’t fit ALL the gender norms as a white cis woman I know that I am somewhat protected from the racism and bigotry that I see growing. It bothers me to see it, even if I am not personally affected by it. I do not have faith in society or the better facts to win out in the “free market of ideas” either. It scares me and makes me sick.
People who think that there are only 2 genders are retarded! These fools mix the concept of gender and sex. And even if they are talking about sex there are actually 3 sexes, since there is a tiny fraction of people who are born with both female and male generals.
always on points
I don't understand how a professor would think that having slaves in the garden of Epicurious would make him sound less elitist?
Best ending to a video ever
I liked this content a lot more the first time I listened to. Actually, I like it almost at much, I just think differently. Thanks for contributing to the raising of the discussion, Contra.
>calling Mac straight   TRIGGERED!!!  Also, you have genuinely made me reconsider a number of my worldviews. Thanks
Let's debate, then.  Name the time.
Are you perchance a fan of Kubrick and Lynch? ;-) Love your videos keep 'em coming.
i fucking love your videos and that comes from someone whos been a fan of rubin for years the reason i love you is not your ideas, but the extraordinary way with wich you support them instead of insulting those who disagree
cucumbers and pineapples are freakishly massive in the US...
Oh snap, you're an It's Always Sunny fan!
That entire end segment had me in absolute tears, I swear you are one of the best content creators.
the ending omg
Nice clockwork Orange reference
Freedom is life, life is vitality and vitality comes from Davis Aurini's testosterone cream. Which you can use to counter all the soy you eat. (Because soy causing increased estrogen is not Sudo science)
When she goes ham on the cucumber at the end 😂. The best.
In terms of the principled discussion of free speech, what do you think of the argument that changes to free speech, although done with noble intentions, create a precedent for further changes which might be lacking such noble intent? The larger question, though, is are there some rights that deserve to be protected above all others?
Ah freedom. So close yet so unlike Ownness.
It would most definitely seem that today's left is the enemy of free speech. Its why I fight you.
I disagree with the idea that speech should be prohibited based on the silencing effect of its content. I think it should be minimized on a personal level, but it's too broad to apply as a general rule. If you want to call me a Nazi, or a Communist, I think I might have to take it in good faith because I'm probably going to risk offending you if I ever say anything worth saying. That said, I will try not to say anything that will have a potential silencing effect so long as it doesn't get in the way of saying something that I think is really important, and I think that truth is important.
I think I have tinnitus.
In my head, at 3:40 I sang the "very good photoshop" using the anthem's first notes, and it fits very well.
VILE WHITE PAMPPERED PRIVILEDGED COWARD
FULLY AUTOMATED SPACE POST-SCARCITY COMMUNISM
"Bullying dingusses" - This is the problem. Many on the left think they have the moral superiority to judge which of the "bullying dingusses" are, that need to be de-platformed. You don't.   Its obviously true to say that their are rules regarding what free speech actually is. If the law says that something like "hate speach" is the threat of harm to a person, then thats fair. Let the law determine whats permissible. If your personal view is that offending someone comes into it, well tough. Thats no reason for you to de-platform someone.
Thats a big cucumber
Your deck triggered the shit outta me. No energies? Are you serious?? DEPLATFORM THIS SICK FILTH.
Can we ever hear an uncensored version of that ending filthy monologue? Please?
On top of all the other problems, the right keeps justifying its idea of freedom of speech with the "marketplace of ideas", thereby ignoring the difference between content and phrasing. Most statements can be said in harmful and harmless ways without losing any of their meaning. Therefore, a demand that the harmless one should always be used does not even infringe on your freedom, and is actually not even part of the basic debate of where the limits of freedom can and must be.  It is hard to seen, why people should have a problem with that, unless, theoretically, they cared more about the opportunity to insult than the content of the statement.
3:25 "No racism except on /b/"  Me: *[Spit-take]* "What the *FUCK* is /pol/ still doing around, then!?!"
No the left doesn't hate free speech they're trying to help protect people. Blocking speech specifically with law isn't helping anyone.
Change the world, 116,443 minds at a time, or less, or more- whatever- you are brilliant.
The best of the left. The most persuasive person I've had the pleasure of listening to, love everything about all of your videos.
at first i was like: "yeah, totally agree!" but then i had a few doubts. If there is someone other than Rubin, who invites both nazis and people from oppressed groups, an argument you made in these two videos doesn't apply, though topic (left and the free speech) does. Personally i would still argue with that sort of people because they are nazi-tolerant and what consequences that may have and so on and so on. But i can't say anything about one-sideness of the host.
is staru the last card bc it's trans?
I agree, I find the fact that trigger warnings are now such a common form of insulting someone that it's downright infuriating. Yes, it can be taken too far sometimes, but that's really just the minority, and overall doesn't overshadow the fact there are just as many people who are legitimately affected by it.   I find no point in arguing about safe spaces. When there is diversity, when there is culture, safe spaces should and always should exist. I, for one, would like to get a bite to eat and a drink to down without someone giving me crap.
9:56 I have that painting in the background.
Oh wow someone been working through some issues.
You hate trigger warnings? Did you know that *star wars spoiler*?
The answer is still: Yes, the left would love to replace free speech with their own.
“I would rather lay down with a goat than be in this room right now” is so awesome I’m totally stealing this.
For that unladylike boob-flash, I am judging you.   For shame, Contra.
So when are you going on Rubin to discuss these  points?  I'd bet money he'd welcome you with open arms.
Let me put this in short:  YES.
I think the main weakness of your argument here is that you're pretending the Left hasn't become the new norm. No one was criticizing "safe spaces" ten or fifteen years ago, when they were really refuges from a largely indifferent, and occasionally hostile, public. But the Left has amply proven their clout, the past few years. They're now able to bully opposing viewpoints into silence, and sometimes even prevent their expression -- not just in safe spaces but everywhere. What's worse, their dragnet is too wide, and they often attack innocuous "microaggressions" (like Dr. Matt Taylor's shirt) with the same ferocity as they attack outwardly hateful homophobes.
This baritone chant is I SWEAR the background music to Snoke's room in The Last Jedi.
Love the surprise mukbang at the end thanks a lot Contra
stop it, you are making me think again.
I grew up in the '70's. My safe space was my room with three locks on it.
By the wrinkles of my tophat, I fucking love this channel!
Ive always just said Im Australian, we dont have free speech (aside from some UN thing) and I like it that way.
not really helping anything... but damn you hot. jess you so fucking hot
Ahh, I remember when the ponies got banned from /b/...
If hearing the word negro is enough to make you run crying and screaming from the room, potentially jeopardizing your academic career, then maybe you shouldn't be there. Maybe you're more suited to a safe space with crayons and kitten videos.
I really want Dave Rubin to invite Contra on his show now
You need to read the history of antifa. It might change your mind about deplatforming and violent resistance.
The left simply can't compete in the open markeplace of ideas. So they try to censor opposing views. Free speech brings the best ideas forward. Censorship doesn't.
genius vid. thank you so much
Oh god I reeeeaaaally want to see you on the Rubin Report
Triangle man, triangle man Triangle man hates particle man They have a fight, triangle wins Triangle man
T R Y  T H E W I N E
Your t-shirt has me thinking about those "triggered" jokes people like to throw around. Obvs turning the word "trigger" itself into a meme hurts people whose lives are affected by trauma every day, but it also strikes me how effective those jokes have been at warping the meaning of the word. Because "trolls" use that term to mean "offended," trigger warnings seem to a lot of people to be enabling the avoidance of any ~opinion that might offend you~. ANYWAY, my point is, I've always really resented the "triggered" meme. Sort of reclaiming the word, as your shirt does, kinda surrenders to the fact that it's lost its original meaning. I wonder if this is the most effective way forward? Making our own, ironic "triggered" jokes might be a good way to blow off steam and say, "yeah, fuck you, I AM triggered." But I wonder if that plays right into the hands of the people who are working to twist its meaning. Ya know?
Yes, we need boundaries and parameters on all things, including what you can say and think, in order to keep things civil. This is why it's a great idea for left-wing domestic terror... I mean thought pol... I mean keepers of civil discourse to mace people in the face for wearing 'Make Bitcoin Great Again' hats in Berkeley.  So does the "Left" hate freedom of speech? Isn't Antifa necessary to bash-the-fash and preventing fascist tyranny from rising?   -Advocate the first amendment being applied to university campuses -Promote Antifa, safe spaces, trigger warnings, deplatforming of academics like Charles Murray, etc. at universities that receive *public federal funding* .   Pick one. Stop trying to have it both ways.
Lou Shur has the worst/best ideology.
How much time do you spend on each video? They’re ALL incredibly well written, edited, filmed. They’re all so theatric and cerebral. You’re the best. Thank you.
Was hoping you'd talk about how liberals silence other liberals when their ideas don't fit their ideology. People like Ayaan Hirsi Ali, Majeed Nawaz, Irshad Manji, and other Muslim reformists who are often called racists and islamaphobes for critiquing their own religion.
Too many Atrazine cocktails?
Even though I was already on the side of social justice, this and part 1 helped me understand things a lot better.  These are connections I didn't make before.  Thanks for the content.  Also, the ending was hilarious!
What is so bad about what the professor said? Sure, in post-agricultural societies at least, it tends to be the well-off who are able to lead contemplative lives. And, sure, being well-off may be due in part to unearned privilege, which is in turn associated with arbitrary aspects of one's identity/group membership etc. But does this make the ancient Greek reverence for the contemplative life, and those contemporary philosophers who endorse it, 'elitist'? Elitism is a fuzzy concept. But I take it to imply some kind of disdainful attitude towards the less well-off, simply because they are less well-off and less privileged. Such an attitude is not a corollary of reverence for the contemplative life. Indeed, mightn't the philosophers in question lament and seek to eliminate poverty, oppression, cultural exclusion etc. precisely because of the way they make attaining the contemplative life more difficult?
Im so glad I found this channel. I cant believe I use to buy so strongly into the anti sjw/ anti femenism rhetoric
wow - after I finished laughing, I'm speechless - synthetic genius
I luv Maggie McPoyle.
I know that you probably wont see this comment, or maybe you just dont care, but i learned of you back when you spoke with Blaire, and while i dissagree with you on some points i agree with you on most points, however, i have seen these videos when they came out and now i am viewing them again. Please, see if you cant speak with Dave, i doubt that he will block you, and while i agree he tends to get center to right speakers, i think you are intelectual enough to debate / speak to his ordience, w/e you prefer.   Contrapoints, your videos are amazing, i dont agree with you on every point but you certainly got my attention way back when.  Hopefully we will leave this SJW / Racist bullshit behind us soon.   PS. Religion is not a race and i will fight any religion who enforces their message on the young or old alike,
are the transitional bits deep refs to something or am i just too dull to understand them?
I always thought I was a liberal, but based on the videos I've seen describing Liberals... I don't sound like one. So now I'm trying to figure out what I am... :/ Thanks Contra for giving me an existential crisis! (Mostly joking)
Fascist societies and communist ones relied on violence and gov. tyranny so in reality as far as how many rules they imposed on their citizenry it was both were nothing but as many rules as possible or the opposite of anarchy no rules.
I also have faith that happiness and peace can come to any and every human as we have faith in god live his teachings in love/reverence even if we do not understand why it matters and repent for our sins.
there are tons of people who believe in political freedom who do not define it as "no rules man" virtue is not having no rules as a matter of a fact it is harder to live a virtue life  then a evil/sinful one it is easier to do what ever you want sexually then to have moral boundaries and self control it is easier to be lazy then hardworking this is true of every personal virtue. a lot of people live a sinful live because they say god's commandments are to restrictive with to many rules on how to live their life while the believers in him have faith in him and his loving teachings see at as a act of love from a loving heavenly parent that he is they see it as a parent trying to protect them from the misery/sadness and evil that comes to them from disobeying his teachings, I believe there is a natural spiritual law that sin when we do it it naturally brings us misery/sadness it is just the unavoidable result and if a person truely examined how they feel when they disobey god's commands it would always be misery/pain/sadness.
How can you deny many left wing people say they want to abolish the free speech of those they disagree I think that is pretty well proven already.
I morally would oppose child porn that part makes sense especially if the site has a completely different purpose.
if these two extremes are evil like egotism and altruism selfishness and suicidal tendencies then what is virtue? it is a balance in between these two evil extremes in Gov. that balance is between totalitarian gov. in all/any forms whether fascist or communist and on the opposite side Anarchy. So in some ways I agree with one aspect of this video that anarchy is a evil but it still does not show how limited gov. is bad. There are are a few laws that are just/good but there are still more laws that could be mathematically created or invented by politicians in the universe that are unjust then just ones under Aristotle definition of morality/virtue.
you are correct in one aspect their is a difference between anarchy and freedom remember the founding fathers did not accept a society with no laws or rules which is anarchy as a matter of a fact they were not even for having no gov. leaders and not for having no local police that enforce just/noble/loving/moral laws. If a private citizen initiates violence against another that is a action that Gov. or authority intervention and punishment is required. The founders favored small gov. meaning a gov. with very limited and restrained power to violate a lot of actions by individuals but this was not all actions a person could ever do. In life the definition of evil by Aristotle a great philosopher is in two opposite extremes.
Very good videos and very good points! I love Rubin (most of the time) and others but you do an awesome job deconstructing their viewpoints and criticizing them.   I don't agree with you on everything, but that would be boring and self serving if I did. Well done.
Thanks a lot for this set of videos. I feel much more educated about this topic now! <3
You're fuckin' awesome pal.
جامدة فشخ
Dave Rubin never said a word when white nationalists and students sympathetic to their views protested Tim Wise when he spoke at my alma mater.
youre fucking hilarious
"Distinguished Enablers".   Bahahaha, oh man, this channel makes me laugh.
Perhaps a little late to the party on this one, but you request the opinion of a person who makes jokes about trigger warnings and safe spaces, and their reasons for being sure they're not being a dick about it? I am just such a person, willing to throw in my own take on the subject.  Personally, I see these kinds of joke as something as subjective as any other form of humor. In my experience, part of that subjectivity comes from the context behind the joke, whether that context is bluntly stated or subtly implied, or even just to be assumed. I'll get a bit more into that in a second, but this is the reason I feel that a lot of non-PC humor comes across as largely offensive to people who aren't privy to the context behind them, or simply assume the worst of the people who make these jokes.  The next point to make is that while I find these jokes amusing, I don't make them in an attempt to belittle the people for whom these things are necessary. I understand perfectly why victims of rape and abuse might want to avoid those subjects, and the necessity of a place (not necessarily physical) in which they might be offered a reprieve from these things. I'll poke fun at people all day long, sure... but I can't think of a single form of humor that is not at the expense of a person or group of people, and should someone express genuine annoyance with a joke I've made I have no reservations about giving them a sincere apology, and making a mental note not to press that particular button again.  This is where the joke's context comes into play. As an anecdotal example, I offer this: I have high functioning autism, and my friends are all aware of this. Despite the notion that you shouldn't make fun of people for disabilities, my friends also all know that I don't really give shit that I have it. As far as I'm concerned, laughing at me for having autism is the same as laughing at me for having two arms. It is factually correct that I have autism, and I'm aware that this means I act in ways that others see as bizarre. It is factually correct that I have two arms, and I'm aware that this means I can pick up things with two hands. To me, there's not really any difference there. And with that in mind, when my autistic traits make themselves known, I find it amusing when my friends say things like "Jesus Christ, you autistic twat". I'll respond with the equally factual "Stupid bloody neuro-typical bastards". It's just an amusing back and forth to us. The context is important though, because in this banter they know I don't have an issue with it and I know that they don't actually think any less of me because of my autism. In this context, the joke stops being at my expense and starts being at the expense of people who genuinely would think less of me because of my autism. And it is in this context that I feel comfortable making jokes about safe spaces and trigger warnings. My friends and I all share similar (if not the same) views on these issues, and thus making jokes that appear on the surface level to be anti-trigger warning, anti-safe space, or anti- any PC stance, it comes from the context that we don't actually believe the things we are saying and are thus making fun of the people who do.
I always put trigger warnings on my trigger warnings.
I'm new here. What's with the get up?  As always you guys want to protect feelings, because you don't like "Oh, I can't speak up, because others would make me feel bad". Meanwhile what you want is "Oh, I can't speak up, because I would go to jail". That's the difference.   I don't mind your safe spaces as long as you don't make colleges and universities into places where white people aren't welcome. The whole "it's okay to be white" thing this week should have shown you how bad this has already gotten. You can have your gay bars, your queer centers, your trans houses, I don't care. Just don't interfere with other people's lives. I know, I know, some people are probably doing the exact same thing to you, but you want to change things, don't you? Moral high ground! Take it!  I really can't sympathize with that black student. I mean I get why she dropped the course, but the crying? I support Oprah when it comes to the derogatory term for black people. There is no "taking it back". Just like there is no taking back the Swastika. People should stop saying it all together. But again, I'm saying should stop, not should be forced to stop. I wonder if that black student also cries when she hears rap music. I mean I don't like people using words like that, so I don't listen to that kind of music nor talk to people who do. I still wouldn't forbid them from using it. But then I live in Germany, and we get hit over the head with what the Nazis did constantly. I wonder why the left hasn't picked up on their tactics being the same the actual Nazis used, though that is a story for another song.  If you guys need to shut down other people's freedom of speech so you can speak up, I would say you have the same problem the racists have. Something went wrong in your upbringing. I mean everyone has insecurities, but I was taught life is about overcoming your shortcomings and if that isn't possible, making the best out of the hand you were dealt (that's why i'm also not a big fan of the whole transformation thing you are going for it seems. Not that I mind, it just makes me uneasy looking at your well toned arms and brought shoulders paired with the feminine hair style and the makeup. No offense of course). What you do is teach people that they shouldn't toughen up, as you called it in your video, but instead play the victim. Which is again what the racists do if they complain about foreigners taking their jobs. I'm confused why nobody protected me when I got my first death threat in person from a guy I didn't even talk to. Maybe death threats aren't hate speech. Oh, wait! They are even forbidden by actual law, but it was okay, because he was Muslim and I'm white. Makes sense! Double standards all around.   I'm sorry to read that you have people falsely flagging your videos. I guess that's the main problem. People are hypocrites. Anyway, I thought your videos are more or less well made, but definitely very creative. Though again, looking at you makes me uneasy. Well, it's not just how you look, but also your voice. My brain tells me something is off here. I guess it's an uncanny valley issue. I don't want to get used to it though, because I once read about that the left now thinks that you don't have to disclose to your potential partner that you were something else once. Luckily you don't use that many visual queues, so if it becomes too much for me, i can just look away and only listen.   I really hope you washed that cucumber before you ate it. You know, Toxoplasma gondii.
Nice "a clockwork orange" reference .Do you like Pier paolo Pasolini ?
Gymnopedie!! Thx it's nice to have a positive philosophy perspective on internet these days. Come to montreal some time!
What are their pronouns
All that I am saiyng is that 4-chan is clearly intended to opress freedon of speech: I mean, look: They have a forum specifically for racists and another specifically for bronies... And they are separate.   What about the racist bronies? Shouldnt we be allowed to post pictures of Fluttershy leading jews into a concentration camp?( I hope I made it obvious enough that this was a joke. )
I very much enjoyed this two-part series. I've written about this topic myself here: https://stephanusipsissimus.tumblr.com/post/157817355319/free-speech-hate-speech-and-the-power-of-words  Thanks for making this!
I can't believe I just found your channel today. You're amazing, I've been binging your videos for hours.
A dude blurring his chest. I guess he identifies with censorship? So forced even if he is she.
I watched the mirror of part 1 on Shaun's channel, and was instantly drawn in.    You explain things eloquently, and while initially confused by the bizzare cut-aways to the masquerade characters (I don't fully understand what they represent, but I'm sure I'll pick up on it eventually) later I quite liked the use of them, and the way they frame the next section.   They also give me nostaliga for trying to understand subtitled idioms, puns, and metaphors in kung fu movies :)
The problem with Triggers specifically is how abused they've already become. I don't think anyone would be against a survivor of rape leaving a conversation or needing a moment to recalibrate if something in particular triggered them. The problem is that among a certain social circle its not used that way. It's become a catch all for some people to just ignore any opposing ideas or critiques.
Hitchens is a good example of weird idol worship that ignores the fact that he was just a person and imperfect.
Did you go to art school? I swear your videos look so much like my classmate's. The ones that get the best grades and only care about video art, of course.
every frame of this is print worthy. the most aesthetic educational content
Weird Vietnamese Music?
Perhaps the reason why classical liberals don't appreciate the threat of nazis in the modern day is because those ideas have been fairly well suppressed in the modern narrative. Both "sides" of the free speech debate are somewhat self-defeating; the more protected you are from abhorrent perspectives, the less likely you are to see them as any kind of threat.  Basically, there is a balance of "the potential damage done by suppression of important perspectives as an accidental byproduct of censorship" and "the potential damage done by abhorrent perspectives being given a platform/audience". If you believe the current balance in society means the latter is a much bigger threat then the former, then the best way to push the narrative and convince others to agree with you is provide clear evidence of this threat. Personally, the thing that pushed my perspective in that direction is the Trump elections as a whole; fairly powerful proof that the nazi narratives were significant enough to swing elections, and not just some disregarded crazies.
I love you're hair!
Brilliant.  Absolutely brilliant.
my university and our lgbtq community usually uses the term "safer space", i think to make clear no safe space is a perfect shelter.
What's with the pile of Pokemon cards at the end?
Yup I had one of those "negro moments" in grad school.  I thought my colleagues and professor were better than that.  I'm still livid with myself that I let them get to me.
Well on the one hand you're right that many of the "left hates free speech" arguments are specious and hypocritical. On the other hand, it is true that the left is more openly cavalier about free speech than is the right. I personally find it alarming that we're stuck between one side that doesn't take the issue seriously and another side that uses it only as a bludgeon.
some people who consider themselves left, but who are actually just some twisted teenage edgelords, abuse the idea, the anarchist idea, of self defence.   The left is and was about physical resistance to fascism. But some edgelords abuse this, by calling everything 'a fascist', our 'problematic', and by that abuse their power/violence.   The offence is the best defence, the edgelords say, so they preventive beat up a sixty year old feminist, because she has other ideas.   Attack a feminist, who is not literally threatening you, who has another perception of live, isn't free speech, its intimidation and abuse.   Self defence was like a few years ago, when a gay man was kissing with another men, got attacked, and killed the attackers. Thats self defence.   trying to blow up Hitler, is self defenice. Shutting another leftist down, with intimidation, isn't self defence, its refusing someone from his/her free speech.   I could also attack this contra points person, with the idea of 'self defence', but it would be abuse, and not anti-fascism.
cool vid
I'm not going to resort to calling contra a liberal loser even though I am tempted, but as an anarchist I do have to say: violent anti fa protests seem to be a pretty successful strategy, depending on how you view strategy? When you stand up to TERFs online for example or any bigots, you leave an example. Onlookers can read that and think "oh, okay, these ideas aren't tolerated". Similarly with violent protests. Milo supporters reportedly felt more unsafe spewing their shit in public after Berkeley, which is nice. While I don't think punching a Natsee for internet fame is the way to go even if I found the remixes hilarious  I do think there should be violence against the far right. Just something more, permanent, and not for publicity. Kill them. Steal their shit. Light up their houses, dox them. Of course I know that's a privileged position to take, because I'm someone who didn't grow up on the streets dealing with nazi skinheads. Violence is no bed of roses. People get hurt. For those who are willing to sacrifice themselves and go out having killed a few people or done something productive, I support them, but not all radicals should feel tempted to go out and do that. I sure as hell am not ready. I don't know man, I'm sure this is a dumb fuckin teenage phase and I'm sure I'll grow up and become the liberals I hate. Hope I get hit by a car before I get there though.
How does  slave women in garden of epicurus --> philosophy is not elitist? What do those even have to do with each other?
If only you had more exposure during the election
I'm a brony, that's all I have to say goodnight.
Ouch, needed an eardrum warning.
I like this reframing of conservatives and liberals as being classical liberals very much. keep up the good work contra
I think your issue with Dave Rubin might be somewhat that he hosts typically centrist-right speakers on his show, but I think this is due to the issue that he is giving voice to people that don't typically have the mainstream opinion(leftist opinions) and also that he is giving voice to people whom he does not agree with to open up for friendly debate, he has clearly stated on videos that he wants to get people with more leftist ideals and speakers on his show but he has so many similar opinions it doesn't spice up conversation and that a lot of speakers don't want to be associated with his show since he has hosted people like milo yiannopoulos.
I used to watch The Rubin Report. His interview style is just letting people talk and not question anything. I knew that, but i liked to challenge me with different opinions. But it got boring after a while, because Rubin nearly only hosts right wing, conservatives or liberals. Not many ideas to find there...
Safe Spaces? Sounds like the old concept of declaring “Sanctuary!” in a church. Should think conservatives would like that.
Trigger warnings have a long tradition, begun by conservatives. Earliest known: “Adults Only”
APPLEJACK BEST PONY
The craziest thing about the complaints about 'Trigger Warnings' is that it is LITERALLY the answer to "Don't like media X? Don't consume it!"-retort.
I began bursting in laughter when the cucumber part starter.
"Don't tell black people to toughen up. They've been tough for centuries. They've been much tougher than you" The black Americans of the current day? or are we scrapping linear time? Do  modern day blacks have hereditary PTSD from the slavery of their ancestors? I'm sure that modern day black student at a prestigious university is really TOUGHING IT! Lol you went full SJW for a moment.
You make a good point here. It's true: Milo was ultimately deplatformed by the Right. The Left did too, but Breitbart CPAC etc. are still pretty big platforms. Whatever--he's just a jester so he can fuck off.
Cut to contrapoints naked in a bathtub Me: Whelp , i should've seen that one coming Scene turns into a clockwork orange reference Me:Oh mi gosh , oh mi gosh. So cool , Why don't i see these things coming ?
While I personally disagree with a lot of your philosophy, I love your presentation so i liked and subbed.
bronies? *pulls out flamer* WHERE ARE THE HERETICS? THE EMPEROR DEMANDS THEIR DEATHS!
if you never finished your PhD, wouldn't you be a "junior lecturer" or something, rather than a "professor"?
When I watch one of your videos, I generally find most thing agreeable. Same with Sargon. When I read either of your comment sections, I want to rip my hair out.
You're making a false equivalence. Freedom doesn't mean no rules, which is what this Always Sunny episode is closest to in its depiction (Barbarism?). The refutation of anarchy is not the refutation of freedom as a priority. Freedom certainly has boundaries, but just a few set of them which are necessary, and which are very well abridged in the statement "Freedom ends where others’ freedom starts."  When could be considered that the other's freedom starts? Provoking direct harm by punching in the face whosoever thinks different from you is considered as a boundary, or using force over discussion to shut up those holding certain opinions, even if such opinions could be considered the worst by you, or even though they who maintain such opinions would  apply themselves force against you if they were in a position of power. The problems start when you want to limit freedom outside these boundaries, such as the case of rejecting Milo in universities being there people decided to listen to him, because he's a “goddamn troll” or for he not properly encouraging “intellectual discussion among students and faculty with a diversity of viewpoints can flourish.”  Such flawed and double-razored arguments translate into one single principle: _Using force over what should be debated, or just ignored._ There's never a shortage of people eager to forbid free speech under the most picturesque and contradictory kind of excuses, being “morality” and “interests” the favorite ones, as Karl Popper pointed in The Open Society and Its Enemies, but also it turns out that applying this kind of restrictions inexorably causes more damage than the alleged fault they try to correct, as Karl Popper as well pointed out, and as widespread historical and current examples show at satiety.
On the establishment of rules to prohibit trolls from speaking to assure that universities remain a place where a diversity of views can be encourage.  Fair enough, except that universities, specifically the humanities are not a place of diversity of views, to put some data that in the top 40 ranked universities the ratio of full professors and assistant professors who are registered Democrats and Republicans in Economics is 4.5:1 in law 8.6:1 in psychology 17.4:1 in journalism 20:1 and in history 33.5:1 with a total of 66 out of 170 departments with 0 Republicans (see tables 2 and 3). To put this in historical perspective in 1963 in history the ration of D:R was 2.7:1  The end result of this is that the Overton window of academia has shifted so far to the left that you have students who use the same tactics of trying to silence people like Bret Weinstein as they do for Milo Yiannopoulos.  https://econjwatch.org/file_download/944/LangbertQuainKleinSept2016.pdf?mimetype=pdf
i got so distracted during the bit in the bathroom around 9:00 because her right ear ring got caught in itself
I'm a straight lady & find Contrapoints very attractive. It's very confusing. But I'm ok with it. I guess intelligence & style is very attractive.
Kinda Ironic how people were trying to have this video removed from youtube. What ever happened to free speech?
Classic liberal/libertarian here. Just watched your video and I just want to say not all of us like Dave Rubin.  1. There is a constitutional issue here when it comes to public universities. I think it is dangerous for the government to decide what is worth hearing and not worth hearing.  2. I don't categorically oppose trigger warnings. I support the use of private safe spaces. In fact, I think everyone does, and conservatives who say they oppose safe spaces just don't know what it means. What we don't support is turning a public forum into one. I'm not sure if you've heard of popehat but he's written a pretty good article on this issue. Another critic of the left on free speech that I like is Wendy Kaminer. They both have more coherent views on free speech than Dave Rubin. I think it's probably more worthwhile to engage with their views than with Dave Rubin's.
I had a talk with my mother about safe spaces. She uses the argument that college is meant to prepare student for the "real world". It's a BS argument which I argued, even admitting that safe spaces could be abused, but I pretty much ended it with this:  "These LGBT students who grew up in the south and finally have a place where there are new ideas and tolerance ALREADY know more about 'The Real World' than you. Or me for that matter."  She decided to change the subject after that.
So is Western civilization in all of its classical liberalism requires some fundamental rules and adherence?.... That is to say the absence of those rules would be counter vailing to the construct? So if Western is code for white (your words in alt right video), how could you expect that the system that produced you and your persona would ever existed with out white identity. Aknowledging this, the antithesis of this must be true.... All things not white are counter liberal, counter civilized and counter the greater good.
this video got me into Always Sunny. thank you
Yea the concept of a trigger warning isn't bad; it's the stigma behind the name in contrast to regular content warning (⚠️)
you deserve far more subscriptions my dear.....for now however you have mine
Did I mention that i love you
Our freedom ends when another's person freedom starts.
I don't follow your argument of "we need to have rules that limit free speech". I thought there already were a bunch of rules constricting the free use of language in the US. The main one being "to incite actions that would harm others". My interpretation of Dave Rubin's views doesn't lead me to believe that he advocates a freedom bar scenario. I think Rubin and these other classical liberals see a threat to public discourse when people (primarily from the left) want laws that are subjective, like hate speech for example. Implementing laws on something which differs from individual to individual is a very slippery slope. When it comes to inciting violence though there is no subjective interpretation to be made, which is why it works as a rule. I can't speak for every free speech enthusiast but I'm positive that most of them doesn't want to get rid of these limitations. They are just critical to adding new ones. You are by the way my favorite SJW and I really like your videos even though I often disagree with you
I love fapping to this cute tranny
Why the fuck are you not my mayor?
I've always said that Always Sunny is the most important source of political discourse of the modern day.
Classical liberals are a joke
I like how every Contrapoints video isn't just informative, but is a great Lynchian art film.
Jimmi Simpson ftw
If safe spaces trigger right wingers so much, they should go form their own safe space
Are you making videos while you're on the can?
. . . Why do my YouTube videos say watched instead of trolled?
I don't think "Why can't you handle being called a racist?" is morally equivalent when the perception of being racist could ruin your career and force you to spend the rest of your life driving Uber. (Of course, this doesn't mean racial discrimination is justified.)
The right to free speech doesn’t come with a right to be heard. A safe space is an acknowledgement of that. Those that whine the loudest about the existence of safe spaces are demanding a right to be heard that they don’t have.
I love the piano pieces you use. Your videos are awesome!
I love the ending there because you know that it makes some folks incredibly uncomfortable in the same sort of way that they make others uncomfortable when they selectively use their freedoms in order to be huge dicks to other people.
I smashed that subscribe button like.....like a....like an extremely smashable object.
I really wish I was as intelligent as you meine freunde. I barely scraped by my undergrad. Thank the Gods you exist.
💛💛💛 this video
The story about the Uni professor reminds me of when we were studying 'Australian Gothic' in literature and for some reason our teacher focused on this disgustingly racist story from the 1880s which demonizes aboriginals, and I was sitting there feeling sick and thinking how awkward it would be if we had any aboriginal people in the class.
the extremist do
At the college I went to we kind of had an LGBT safe space. It wasn't established as a 'safe space' by the college, and I think there were people there who had anti-LGBT views, but anti-LGBT views generally weren't expressed in that space due to social pressures. The result was a 'safe space' through social pressure rather than actions by the university
I wish I could be as gorgeous as you.
I'm not gay, but the more I watch your videos, the more attractive you look.
person: trigger warnings are stupid & we shouldn't coddle people!!! same person: *puts epilepsy warning at the beginning of their videos* same person: *has crippling phobias & literally needs trigger warnings*
I have that same painting of the naked woman with the red hair!
I be wanting to watch yo videos because ya know I want to be that bitch but too many big words for me. I just... I know nothing is gonna change but gahdamn bitch got to get a whole vocabulary lesson to watch yo shit I'm not going to college tho fuck allathat
Eww what the fuck are you?  A guy that thinks he's a woman?  Did you just flash your chest?  You're a disgusting. You're a disgusting human and I hate you.
This has become a lot more relevant a lot faster than expected.
4:44 "and universities probably shouldn't be hosting god damn trolls..." Like milo Yiannopoulos. Why not? If people want to hear what he has to say, who are you to deny them?  What demonstrable harm can you demonstrate that is strong enough to overrule those who want to hear him speak?   Who the fuck are you to decide that Milo has no redeeming value if there are plenty of people telling you that he HAS redeeming value and is worth listening too?
Don't know what your name is but you are great. Erudite and entertaining at once. I have subscribed to your channel. Keep publishing. I look forward to your next video.
What about the fact that Richard fucking Dawkins gets banned from a Berkeley liberal radio station, specifically for his "hate speech" against Islam. The far left is censoring more and more things. Now an Atheist actually gets banned from the liberal side! I don't see how you sympathize with these Milo rioters. People that destroy a college over one guy that was scheduled to speak, you don't find that irrational at all? I'll admit you make a good argument using the Always Sunny clips, but Milo is not shooting up, making out with his brother, or hosting a Russian-roulette. All he's trying to do is give a speech. If you want to talk about trolls, lets talk about the rude ass people that have attended his events; blow horns, shouting,and other indecent displays(smigleypuff). If they don't like it, then simply don't attend.
Still the best.
Sabateurs, satarists, and pranksters have played important roles in political discourse for hundreds (thousands?) of years.  And I'm certainly no fan of Milo's, either. Hell, I don't even think he's all that great at sabotage or provocation (Jello Biafra does a much better job at both IMO) -- but to suggest that it's okay to silence people just because they happen to employ prankster tactics (or because you happen to believe that their rhetoric is otherwise "empty") looks a lot like an attempt on your part to give your particular tastes and viewpoints the force of law.  And that's not cool, man. Not very cool at all.
"When gay people are so sheltered that they just have no idea what homophobia is..."  You're probably right with regard to gay people. But the group most often criticized for "safe spaces" are feminists, and there are definitely feminists who have never heard any counterargument to their worldview that women are unilaterally oppressed and there's no such thing as misandry.  I agree with you about trigger warnings though.
You should go on the Rubin report. PS: I also like Erik Satie.
omg delightful human. where do you drink in baltimore so we can be friends
Figures I shared this to FB right before the dildo pineapple bit.   It stays up.
I just realized that you sorta look like Miki Berenyi from the band Lush in this video. So dats pretty cool.
Their fantasy of owning an establishment where women remove their clothing to show them their body kind of disgusts me. I get it, women are hot. I would like to see some tits too, but I would not create a business to bring those women to me? Unless it were a BDSM dungeon/sex club, but I feel that that is not offensive because then BOTH sexes and ALL people present would be able to and encouraged to remove clothes and enjoy their sexuality. When it's not specifically a sex service location (dungeon/club) it seems like they are targeting women in a way that is unbalanced and comes off as predatory and selfish, whereas in a sex club all people could interact and enjoy natural pleasures, and it would not simply be a bar where pigs try to get women to showcase themselves.  Does this make any sense? I'm not sure why their fantasy offended me, but the existence of sex clubs and dungeons and sex conventions does not. Their actions feel predatory and shallow.. 'i want to see tits'..instead of ''I want to create a place where people of all kinds feel comfortable expressing and enjoying their sexuality and that of others''. It's a fundamental difference in integrity. Obviously lots of people want to see tits, but the kind of person who would create such an establishment for such a shallow and selfish reason is offputting and disgusting.
I know this is a little late... but I do wanna say that trigger warnings are at least 20 years old at this point. It's not a new thing by any means. They existed even before I started using the internet (hence the "at least 20 years old" part.)  And in response to anyone claiming otherwise in the comments, it was actually people with PTSD or mental health issues asking/using trigger warnings to discuss sensitive subjects without causing harm to other forum users, so people could make informed decisions on where they could offer support versus where they would currently be out of their depth emotionally. They mostly took the form of acronyms; for example: SA: sexual assault, ED: eating disorder, SU: suicide, SH: self harm, and so on and so on. Like I say, this was 20 years ago. Twenty. Years. Ago. You're kidding yourself if you think this is anything new.  PS. ContraPoints I like your videos~!
rapidash best pony
Your lighting is amazing.
"I kissed a Kek, and I liked it"                         - Sargon of Akkkad
Freedom op speech is essential. Even hate speech is necessary. If people cannot openly express themselves there wouldn't be any mechanism to correct them on their thoughts. People don't want to be outsiders, they don't want to be seen as bigots. If you stop freedom of speech you will isolate toxic ideas and people become insane.
All these videos are great. Thanks for doing what you do.
To me, there's something fundamentally different about one group of people using riots, airhorns, disruption, online sabotage, etc... to prevent another group from discussing their ideas. I think how if this was the norm when I was born in 1980, I wouldn't be able to live the queer life as freely as I do now.
Nick, you've been inexplicably transformed into a total moron. I stopped when you condoned the deplatforming of Milo Yiannopoulos. Obviously, the left does hate free speech. Milo is not the equivalent of the Vietnamese Gamblers and the milk guys. The leftists are. The leftists are the ones who cause trouble by disrupting the event with violence in order to prevent him from saying what he has to say. Antifa is engaging in violence and arson, causing chaos and disturbance in order to dissuade people from going to the talk. Your classification of him as a troll is 100% wrong. He is a provocateur but that's not all he is. You're incredibly intellectually dishonest and you need to be. You need to be because you hate free speech.  https://youtu.be/Q_y5XmGPQsM You're just afraid that people will hear what he has to say because deep down inside, you're afraid that he's right. If you don't like what he has to say then don't attend his talks. His speaking engagements are limited to one area like the Brony forums. No one's forcing anything on people who disagree with Milo.
Been in uiversity for four years now, in Belgium and Scotland, not a single trigger warning to be seen.
I've actually been arguing to lift the My Little Pony plan ever since it was first instated.  I hate 4chan's rule system.
So, is your argument that there is no problem? I don't support morons like Milo, but speaking as someone with Left-leaning views, even I can see that the influence of far-left political ideologies on college campuses are creating an authoritarian enviornment. If you continue to stubbornly insist that "everything is fine", then assholes like Milo and Trump are going to keep getting elected.
you need rules to maintain the anarchy
Let Milo speak, if he's just an idiotic troll then he'll expose himself and intellectuals will laugh him out of the building, and who gets to decide he has nothing legitimate to say?
There are only two genders... yours doesn't exist ...becoz science
Social justice warriors discredit themselves. The arguments are not arguments they are emotional rants. Stop you're whining about micro aggressions. You are promoting WEAKNESS the pathetic weaklings that you are creating will not survive in the real world.
ContraPoints. You talk as if you're making fair points that ought to be obvious to every fair-minded person who simply needs to hear you  tell it like it is. You do understand that the bar scenes that you use for demonstration purposes are scripted? Of course you do, it's just that the TV writers are telling us the same narrative that you like. There seems to be an attempt at rational thinking with the syllogistic, Everyone wants freedom, freedom is different for different people, ergo, beware/shun/devalue the freedom that is distasteful to you. SJW good. Anti-SJW bad. But the law already restricts freedom using the ethics of reciprocity in both positive and negative forms. As for freedom of speech, the intersectional social justice feminists seem to have elected themselves to be the ideological police, the thought police, ready to pounce on anyone, even the deeply indoctrinated, for anything from deliberately provoking them on down to a slip of the lip, a bad turn of phrase. This has to stop, you know that, right?
I love the Clockwork Orange reference
The Sex Pistols were "open saboteurs" as well. Would you have banned them from college campuses?
when you make over 30 minutes of video on a subject that relates to a *freedom*, *not a right*, you know that the answer simply isn't yes.
Am so glad that i found this channel.
The left doesn't hate free speech, they hate people that disprove their false narrative. The left hate truth.
lol rules in 4chan.... who else is sleepy?
rip headphone users.
stupid trigger warnings haha like those faggy age ratings brb gonna show the robocop 30 seconds to comply scene to kindergarteners
I understand that it is part of your persona and this channel to be edgy, but for example what do you seek to archive by using formulations like classical liberals think that safe spaces are "a harbinger of the death of free speech". By that you are either creating a strawman or you are picking the classical liberal that is the easiest to argue against. Instead you should pick the best classical liberal and see if your argumentation still holds up against his. I think your comparison of a campus to a bar isn`t the best. The bar is privatly owned. Most free speech activits would acknowlege that you have the right to ban someone from your private property if you don`t like what they say.
Let me start with the PMRC, once again, as a prime example...  Ok Millennial, who thinks you have all the knowledge and experience in the world but don't know jack, allow me to introduce you to the PMRC.   It was a hobby lobby created in 1983 by Tipper Gore (liberal, feminist and wife of Al Gore) and other mothers/wives of politicians (with various political affiliations and degrees of religious fundamentalism) who had a problem with offensive lyrics in music.   See PMRC retro report (and note the mocking of trigger warnings at the end)  https://youtu.be/_eB2lLO4b8U  The group started with a focus on "Porn Rock" that eventually spiraled to rap. This was during the 1970s - 1980s years when Radical, self proclaimed Marxist, Anti porn feminists (Dworkin, Mackinnon, Steinem, etc) were working hand in hand with religious fundamentalists in an attempt to ban pornography on grounds of morality. This is something they still do, by the way. As legislation was being proposed pornography spiraled into "obscene content", and people started slapping the word porn in front of everything that offended them.   Given the wide range of beliefs held by those involved "offensive content" ranged from sex in general, graphic sex, violence toward women, violence in general, rape, misogyny, sexism, racism, bigotry, drug use, atheism, the occult/satanism, anti immigration sentiments, homophobic sentiments, BDSM or as Tipper would say BONDAGE!!! on and on.   It also extended past this as teenagers were being targeted, unfairly demonized, wrongfully convicted of Satanic crimes, slandered, sent to re education camps, and wrongfully expelled (happened to 5 of my friends in 91, 4 who were Christians at the time) for listening to particular music & wearing black concert tees and black converse. Much the same as students and staff who are being demonized, sentenced to re education/sensitivity and diversity training, wrongfully expelled or terminated, slandered and subjected to physical violence for wearing red and wanting to listen to/debate differing views today.  There were huge problems with the suggestions of warning labels from the start, and senate hearings over it. The PMRC was making baseless accusations against recording artists based on their subjective opinions on songs. They were also intentionally mixing up song lyrics and misquoting them to make it sound worse than it was.   One of the more noted examples was Tipper's accusation that Dee Snider/Twisted Sisters song Under the Blade was promoting violence toward women and BDSM. It was a song about a male band members fear of an upcoming throat operation. Women were not even mentioned.   https://youtu.be/S0Vyr1TylTE  I'll also link Frank Zappa and John Denvers testimonies. John threw a huge monkey wrench in the day. They expected him to agree with them. He did not.  https://youtu.be/hgAF8Vu8G0w  https://youtu.be/VgSjjD6rRu4  You have to keep in mind that they we're complaining about a lot of songs that were never played on the radio, along with a few mild ones that were. They were complaining about albums you buy yourself and the first label they proposed was much more detailed and based on the often incorrect opinions of a few.  They eventually settled on the generic label that had the opposite effect of what they intended and increased the sales of albums that received it. There were many because people were making and buying more offensive content just to piss feminists and fundamentalists off. Fuck all the ideological, moral watchdog, whores.  There were still problems with the sticker. See Frank Zappa's 1986 album Jazz From Hell. It was purely instrumental but still received the offensive lyrics sticker. He knew they were not listening to the albums before slapping it on and that this was an unfair, subjective and highly ideological situation.   There were hearings and objections before every content warning or guide was created, except in colleges. It's been unfairly and illegally forced on others, violated rights, destroyed the education process and resulted in a ton of litigation.
4 Chan does not restrict what you say. It points you to the proper platform to say it.    Safe Space is a term used in therapy that was eventually picked up by black feminists in the late 60s/early 70s and was applied to extra circular groups. Believe it or not, the world existed before the internet and Millennials.    You have an incredibly simplistic view of this, and I will explain further, as I have in multiple comments.
Here is a Vox article on PEN America's report on free speech and college campuses: https://www.vox.com/the-big-idea/2016/12/13/13931524/free-speech-pen-america-campus-censorship  (The article contains a link to a PDF of the report.)  I actually plan on doing my argumentative essay for English 102 on free speech. Your video is informative on the issue. (I don't know if YouTube videos are allowed as sources, though.)
Lol. "Liberals and good faith conservatives" will speak as long as Yiannopolous and others aren't there to cause problems. Yeah that's bs.
What a ridiculous tranny.
learn how to contour that beak you call a nose!
Before the video has started i'd like to ask a question  ''DEAR YOUTUBE MODERATOR: My channel has recently been the target of a spurious flagging campaign. Please take an extra moment to review this video! ❤''  What's been going on?
is there a way to double like a video
This dude is an idiot.  He cites examples of restriction of speech like 4chan...there's a HUGE difference if I'm talking outside, on a publicly owned property, and if I'm discussing things on a website someone owns.  You fail to mention that communities are not the same as the country on a whole; Nazis are allowed a place to speak in public, yet you'll be hard pressed to find a Jewish community center invite them for a discussion.  Your ideas are worthless because they are built on false assumptions.  You don't understand the very basic differences between public and private settings in our society.
Does the left hate free speech?  Why don't we ask David Sherrat and Liana Kerzner what happens when you criticize the right? I'm sure they know how much Republicans love it when you speak your mind and offer polite criticism of their worldview. A liberal is ultimately a conservative who's been dogpiled and harassed.
Milo is cool ! ☺
when leftists claim that they support free speech, they want their country to be like this:   https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Saudi_Arabia
Freedom of speech as guarunteed by the American constitution only prohibits the government from restricting said freedom of speech, this amendment does not prohibit private institutions/ private homes/private forums from enacting certain restrictions if it were the case that no one was allowed to prescribe certain restrictions within their own homes or within their forums that would be infringing upon their own freedom to do so. Freedom of speech in only applicable in public/government owned areas so I don't know what you're on about Contra. Hint: Universities and Colleges are owned by the government/public such as Middle Tennessee STATE University, etc unless it is a private college/university. I think you are aware you are severly stawmaning when you brought up Milo.  TL;DR. Does the left hate free speech? Yes..you kinda answered that yourself 4:44
That is so anti-libertarian.
1. What does the character's sexuality have to do with the matter at hand? If you have to bring up a person's sexuality in order to help your point that usually indicates your point/arguement is likely meaningless and frankly bigoted (yes gay people can be and are bigoted towards straight people just as black people can and are racist towards white people and queer to cisgender people, etc)  2. Mac is gay (the dude in the green shirt) he's more open about it in season 12, if you actually watched the show you'd know that. But here's the thing contra, it doesnt matter. I, and I think you can agree, want to live in a world where a person is just themselves and their sexuality has little or nothing to do with them, gay, straight, bisexual, pansexual, whateversexual, but its people like you that point out a persons sexuality or gender (like cisgender) as if to make a point for or against them..   TL;DR Stop pointing out peoples sexualities (straight) or genders (cisgender) as if its a character flaw or somehow makes them or their existence or their opinions any less legitimate
Point IV was perfect.
Are you ever going to finish the series on Westen Philosophy? You only ever did Thales.
False equivalency is false.
I found you because of your debate with Blaire White, and now I have subscribed and I think you're great
I like the part towards the end where you briefly mention incorporation, how we take in ideas, beliefs, values and even desires from the cultures and social constructs around us and so humans are not to be considered fully deliberative.  Absolutely fantastic stuff and it's a shame that the part right at the end isn't covered in bleeps! haha I'm sure you were describing how to make a smoothie.  Kudos on production quality, I have been taking notes!
ok, so why haven't i subbed to you until now? excellent stuff.
Nice bewbs! :D
For conversational purposes: Why I dislike Safe Spaces (In colleges) - Allows for students to avoid controversial topics that may harm their sensibilities. Regardless of your feelings about rape, sexual assault, left-wing or right wing politics you should not have the option skip classes because of it. When safe spaces are used otherwise, I'm fine with it.  Why I dislike Trigger Warnings - If you don't want to get triggered you avoid places you would find triggers. Otherwise you pick up your shit and get on with it regardless of how you feel about it. Its hard, I know from experience, but you do it anyway and ultimately I'm better because of it.  There will always be triggers, but not always trigger warnings. You get used to the world without them to survive. Coddling prolongs experienced suffering later in life.  Why I hate disinviting speakers (any speaker, regardless of their content or reasoning) - If you are invited by a college, its clear there is something someone wants to hear, the option should not be deprived from some due to the objections of another. Disinviting is wrong when it happens to anyone for any idea.  My definition of Gender relies on Sex. Therefore I don't believe in many genders.
what the fuck dude.  Why did you have to make this so trippy.  I'm too high for this.
>implying halfchan has any relevance Nice try.
part of me is so sad when people say "don't ask me about my gender identity or my expression" cause often I'm like "but I have a million questions... you're so interesting T_T"  anyway new sub hype I guess \o/
Exactly freedom needs borders and the only people there should share the same culture, this is exactly why no brown 3rd world sub-humans should be allowed into the west.
ContraPoints, will you please be my friend?  At least to the extent that I can tell people that ContraPoints said she was my friend in a YT comment?  I would be very grateful, I could do with more friends so please say yes.  P.S.- My YT doesn't reflect it because google just made a YT account out of my gmail adress but my name is Chester Koresh (at least online).
FREEDOM IS SLAVERY
You're so fucking hot O.o FUCK    Also, thoughtful comment about the content of this video presentation.
personally on the topic of trigger warnings i just find them to often be patronizing and unnecessary, like on articles or posts that would obviously contain "content that is triggered to some individuals", i think they're actually a lot like spoiler warnings in that aspect. They really shouldn't be treated like anything more serious than an annoyance though, it's really childish how much people overreact to them.
A response;  https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8Y4YP0Gta2A
Damn kid, you're a disgrace. Sort yourself out.
Some gay intermissions, but great overall!
The way each segment is presented in different rooms with different outfits, it's slowly starting to feel like I'm watching a Let's Play of a ContraPoints dating simulator.
I shared your channel with a friend who was a big Jordan Peterson / Dave Rubin fan.  You "blue pilled" him back to reality.  I LOVE YOU!!!!!!!!!!!!!
Why should you care if college republicans want to host an event with their money to have a speaker you disagree with?   I find you to be a bullying dingus with no redeeming value. But I would never try to silence your terrible opinions.
Your look-a-like plays in Gary Numan's band Tubeway Army, ( https://youtu.be/ZF4Z6smOrZw?t=1m32s ) And you are both keyboard players, HTH.
I think your free speech argument is a little overly simplistic. (Please forgive me <3, I'm a fan T^T) When people bring up the issue of free speech, most aren't denying that everyone deserves human dignity, acceptance, and a place to feel at peace. When people talk about not wanting safe spaces, most are referring to safe spaces on campus, and not in bars or social clubs. The reason behind not wanting safe spaces on campus is that college campuses are supposed to be places where you are exposed to ideas that challenge and test your own ideas. These ideas, even the bad or morally repulsive ideas, are a blessing! They help you fortify and refine your own thinking.   Most people on both sides of the issues are reasonable human beings who would not protest the idea that everyone deserves compassion and a sanctuary in this world. The racists, radicals, and provocateurs on both ends of the political spectrum are the obnoxious minority. One huge and exceedingly pervasive problem with this free speech debate is that nobody can seem to agree on what does and does not constitute hate speech or harmful speech, because it's a complex and nuanced topic. What might be considered hateful and harmful to one individual, might be considered a helpful nudge in the right direction to another person.   This is where things become murky. Since most issues are so nuanced, how do you actually go about figuring out when it's appropriate to apply boundaries that result in censorship? I'm sure that everyone can agree that there's no place for ad hominem attacks, especially in an academic discussion. So, now we're left to decide which group we should prioritize. The group who might glean some perspective or value from the speaker's ideas? Or the people who might be offended by the speaker's ideas? Couldn't there be a viable solution to this problem other than prioritizing one group over the other and enacting censorship? Maybe the offended group could sit out the talk.  Or if the offended group finds the subject morally abhorrent, couldn't they just use the opportunity to listen to the speaker's points and provide an intellectual critique to challenge the talking points that they disagree with, rather than strive to deplatform the speaker? Seems more productive than censorship imho.  Besides, free speech has a really neat social component to it. Even when we permit the horrible people to spread their terrible ideas, it gives the rest of us the opportunity to publicly correct them and explain why their ideas are terrible. If we don't allow people to submit their ideas to the public for correction, then they could just fester and evolve into even more grotesque ideas. It's better to allow freedom of expression. Let the bad ideas bubble up to the surface for correction. Don't dehumanize normal people without fully understanding their message, and don't drive the psychopaths underground where they would be made undetectable.
Can you make a video about nihilism?
I disagree with you Contra but you are a worthy, intelligent adversary in this battle of ideas.
John Frieda sheer blonde? We have the same shampoo. It's shit.
Hey if you ever get the time could you make a video about Murdoch Murdoch?  He's a literal white-supremacist national socialist animator who has gone relatively unchallenged for the radical beliefs he expresses in his videos and it would make my day to finally see an intellectual argument made against him formally.
I'm a patron of Rubin but more and more since he has gone independent he has had less and less opposing views on the show. I don't know if this is because leftist  refuse or his staff is simply not trying (I hope it's the former).   I realize many leftist feel like they have to come to the defense of small groups but doing so looks like coddling usually. And that is not how respect is earned. Too often I see someone coming at a subject with innocent ignorance being shouted down. And they simply leave bewildered and defensive.
As a member of 4chan, I actually do feel frustrated with the amount of moderation on the site, and feel like it should just be a bare bones policing of anything that is actually against the law. Essentially, Rules 1, 4, and a general acknowledgement from the site itself that this isn't safe for work. What 8chan got right (despite their fall back into obscurity) was the idea of people creating their own boards designed for more niche and varying topics. I love the constant flow of chaos on the site, and figure that most of the content policing could and should be given to the users. I'm pretty sure the bronies would have been satisfied and died down on the shitposting on the other boards once theirs was given to them. I'd rather have all the users of the Christian board call out a user for his "degeneracy" for posting non-missionary porn on their site instead of having to get any of the janitors involved. THAT'S what I loved about 4chan. The idea that something chaotic and out of the blue like Brony spam could come out of it. But I have to settle for a far more restrained and "civil" board.
Wonderful. Clear, precise, brief, human and light. The best treatment of the subject I have seen or read. Thank you.
I can honestly say that I've never seen a person eat a cucumber that way. I found that rather jarring. Great video though.
Please do more videos where you use Sunny to explain political philosophy. It could bring world peace.
Go on Drunken Peasants homie
You are one of the funniest women i know of... ironically you were born in a guys body... Or is this transphobic?
Notice the deep voice. Definitely easy to tell it's a tranny.
what a truly fucking ridiculous question. here's a better one; should the american reich wing be flushed down the shitter? A: yes.
using always sunny to persuade me to agree with you  sly
Your arms are perfect.
I think most of the ideas like safe spaces, trigger warnings etc., muh classical liberals don't actually disagree with, hell even things like rape culture which they passionately argue against. It's just the name, it's just the kind of person that's saying it that they represent. One of my friends is pretty anti sjw, but when I explained to him why people were adding the black and brown strips to the Gay Pride flag he was like "ok that makes sense". The Amazing Atheist likewise has made points that was essentially about rape culture without the name.  It's just when it's presented as condescending, absolute and hostile they take it the wrong way. I personally kind of want to vomit once I begin to hear key phrases like the so and so "experience", "compartmentalize", "intersectionals" etc. because the writer has their head so far up their ass they don't know what's shit and what's not. Doing things like redefining the word racism so you can say "black people can't be racist", getting away with shit like saying "KILL ALL WHITE PEOPLE". I understand the sociological meaning, but I doubt the people themselves do, because under the sociological meaning the KKK is just prejudiced, not racist. But they don't want to say that.  For many people, these kinds of things represent the elitist college liberal snob who tries to dictate everyone's lives with their viewpoint with absolutely no consideration of anyone else. They feel like they're under attack and so they oppose them, even if they're not against what they're saying in principle.
Well you've opened my mind a bit. There goes my ideological false sense of comfort. :')
stop fucking with me
god i'm so happy you exist. i'm so happy you have a voice. we need someone like you at a time like this.
There is obviously a difference between opt-in privately owned forums and government owned places of education. The comparison isn't entirely valid.
I thoroughly enjoy these works of yours, but the strange hooded quotes and enigmas have me hooked. They could mean nothing at all, and I'd be fine with that!
Does anyone know if Contra dealt with Gary Edwards' video response?
JAPANESE HITMONLEE!  OMFG!  : O
I thought for a moment that you were going to go all How-To-Basic over that Plato book.
So your whole build up was just to arrive at "Down with right wingers and their filthy free speech!". OK.
You should go speak on The Rubin Report.
Free Marketplace of Ideas= The worst/emptiest ideas become the most popular.
Contra Points are you gonna make a vid about this whole vidcon mess? :o were you there?
I found a new channel I adore.
Thanks for another great episode! I like your white dress.
1:45 i swear i know the guy on the left.
Naked ape destroyed you.
Your videos are great. Some of the best, and funniest social commentary on YouTube. Keep up the good work. I don't always agree, but you provide food for thought.
I mean, enough crying over "Trigger Warnings."  Can we start talking about these goddamn "Spoiler Alerts"?  They've been around forever, yet nobody talks about them.  We should be able to talk about whatever show we want whenever the hell we want without having to hear someone cry and whine about how we "ruined" an episode of their favorite show.   /Sarcasm
You're a goddess
I just found your channel 2 days ago and I want to say, I LOVE YOU! you're truly a breath of fresh air!
Why do you have the best youtube channel? Why have I only now just found it?
You da bomb
Nice points about rights.  Delineating all "rights" isn't even possible, for in attempting to encode all rights, we'd quickly learn that, in doing so, we'd be delineating rights that contradict one another.   It seems very difficult for some to comprehend the difference between "rights" and "freedom" and speech is likely the most difficult arena in which to battle that subject.
Is the resemblance to Anita Sarkesian in the first half of the video intended? Somehow the delivery, the posture, the lipstick and the way you hold your mouth just reminded me of her.  I love these videos, and I'm glad to have discovered your channel! Definitely one of the best on YouTube!
I think all the lying and cognitive dissonance has turned your hair grey!
DRAG THOSE ACADEMICS, D R A G  T H E M
left does not hate free speech. left hates ideas other than its own.
I'm left and I love free speech. It will be nice when the idiot 'SJWs' are no longer considered left but just fucked.
The left? No. Liberals love free speech. The far left? Yeah. The far right? Yeah. Extremists hate free speech.
4:13 4chan isn't a den of fascism and child porn. Has this idiot even been there, or is it just a joke? I can't tell with these left wing looneys.
huh i wonder why i want a cucumber right now. also i'm widely curious how often you go thru candles. that is not a thing i ever considered as a youtube expense.
Pineapple warning.  Cucumber warning.
The point is that these people believe that the idea that there are two genders is not the default idea, they strongly believe that it is the marginalized point of view that requires special protection as mentioned by Hitchens. They were talked into believing that their traditional viewpoint is a thing of the past, an idea that must be fought over in order to preserve it. They see themselves as the minority.
I saw you at vidcon, and so much wanted to talk to you about your videos, but I didn't see any viewers congregating around you, so I thought, "Yeah, probably shouldn't bother them."  Some other time, but I feel I missed an opportunity.  :-/ Vidcon should definitely get you scheduled on a panel.
I seen this ass hole on a naked ape video and had to go do some trolling for whinny liberals. and this guy delivered or girl or what ever lol 
wtf is this gay ass shit right here ?I still can't get over guys trying to be girls it's so grossly funny
I just discovered your channel the other day and I have been binge watching your videos. Hurry up and make more! I'm addicted! <3
Scurrilous naughtiness! Harrumph, good sir, harrumph and snerd! Repent! Repent before your soul boils in the brimstone lake! Cute outfits tho. Top notch.
The code at the end of the video goes like this: b e h o l d i n g m a n - s i g h t s t h o- g h i t i n d t o s i g n s     The dashes are face down pokemon cards   I think a code is applied each time there is a space inbetween the next one. I cant be bothered to go all the way through with it though.
Thank god for blur bars.
4:05 I see you there, YouTube administrator-bot.
Safe spaces never were a problem, the problem is trying to transform all spaces into safe spaces, safespacifying every place that needs to be "unsafe" (effectively destroying it). Making a philosophy class a safe space is like making a hentai website safe for work
everyone hates free speech unless they profit from it
the pokemon cards at the end provided way more comfort to me then they should have
Never change...wait don't change....hold on, yes, do change      help
Would you consider making a video about the health care bill? I feel like not enough people are talking about it, nor do they care, and I'm genuinely worried because I'm a recovering addict, I have chronic illnesses, and I'm a cis-woman, so it could have a huge negative impact on my life, in so many ways :(
13:36 thats a fuckn cute top
Intelligent, insightful and great style. I wish I found this channel sooner.
The lighting in this video is downright gorgeous.
this is the only user that ive seen that is a disgrace to anything moving that dosent turn his comments off.... i leave with an applaud...
I don't know how you keep making such stupid videos and missing the points your detractors make  Seems like a conscious effort, and quite an effort at that
You're the best.
Nicky are you trying to get my attention with this video?
How in the bloody fuck don't you have more subs? I love you, please love me back
I like the video a ton. I'm probably more on the other side of the fence, but I like that you're making actual arguments! Subscribed!
Um... is this person taking/going to take estrogen????
Short answer: Yes. There, saved you 17 minutes of cringe and lies.
Where has your Instagram-Account gone? Can't find it :O
"I would fuck Contrapoints" - Destiny
Instagram user not found? :(
Where can one listen to a long, uninterrupted amount of Zoe Blade's music? I like the snips I've heard on CP's videos!
TV show: "Viewer discretion is advised."  Alt-Righter: "FUCKING LIBTARD CUCKS!"
7:18-7:26 Contra I love your videos, but next time you should make sure that a can of bug spray isn't in the shot. #contraneedsanexterminator
QQ
Well, I'm bisexual and joke about trigger warnings and safe spaces a fair bit, so...that's a thing?  Then again, even the gays hate us bisexuals, so we don't really have safe space. XP
Gotta say it's a little disappointing you're conflating "anarchic" with 4Chan and no rules and generally acting as if the political philosophy of anarchy is reducible to chaos.
I, too, like the sound that it makes.
11:27 "Gay people not experiencing enough homophobia is not really striking me as a pressing social issue" - Contrapoints A very good defense for ACTUAL safe spaces and not their bastardisation
Your acting is stiffer than my dick on a friday night
This is the first video of yours I have seen but it is one of the best videos I have seen in my entire time on YouTube.  Thank you for making this.
I don't know how you milked over 34 minutes of pretentious, irrelevant bullshit out of this question to which the answer is simply, undeniably, "YES". - They'll fracture your fucking skull with a bike lock for supporting Free Speech. - They'll literally burn a sign that says nothing more than the words, "Free Speech" because they despise it so much. - They will deport you to fucking Germany, knowing that when you arrive, you will be locked up in prison, for years, for writing, a fucking, BOOK, because the book makes them feel uncomfortable. - They will amass a mob to put you out of business, to get you fired, to make you wonder how the fuck you're going to feed your children next month, because they hate Free Speech so much. - They will demand that a Nobel Prize winning cancer researcher should be fired for it. - They will gleefully, encourage each other to physically assault anyone who believes in it...even threaten to kill people over it. - They will send you to prison, and watch you die of a hunger strike, if it's important to you. - They will fucking ban you from their discussion forums, for _CORRECTLY_ using the word "MYOPIC", because that, is fucking "ABLEIST". - They will have you arrested, and banned from all internet use for Three. Fucking. Years...crushing your dreams and leaving you nearly destitute, because they hate it so much.  All Leftists are violent and evil. Most are just too arrogant and thoughtless and deluded to realize the truth about themselves. Your videos are shit. You're about a third as smart as you think you are. Your "points" are retarded. "Oh, I thawt 4chan was anarchy but 4chan has rules, _thereforrr_ ...Trigger Warningz r just a courteousy and...uh...The night Mothurr....ooh, so quirky and eclectic, right?" Meanwhile, people have had their fucking lives destroyed, for saying words, and they were destroyed by fucking LEFTIST. SCUM...with a snarky little smirk and a soft, friendly tone, like yours. Fuck, You.
Damn, your arms make me wanna hit the gym more.
I spent the better part of my last two years of my undergrad classes one of these infamous "safe spaces," people started arguing about stuff at least once a day. People got offended a lot too. The only difference is that, when they argued, they were respectful, and, when they said something someone did offended them, the person who did the thing apologized and didn't make any excuses.
I'm trying to understand the on-going theme of the "Tell Me, laoshi" segments & how it correlates to the rest of the content. Very enigmatic and feel a little dumb for not getting these references. I'm just going to have to search what I can. In the last video he was quoting Mao(?) with a character in a plague doctor mask and another in a Domino mask speaking Chinese (why?). Here it's a callback to Red Riding Hood(?). This is intriguing and I sense that by the time Contra gets to the final video, it'll all add up to an overall thesis. Thoughts anyone?
Liberals and "good faith consevatives???" Shouldnt that be good faith liberals and conservatives seeing as theres many more fake, hatefull, unreasonable, disingenuous liberals completely unwilling to take part in civil discourse than conservatives.
I know you said some people pose as centrists to defend the right, and I agree with you, it ruins my image as a centrist. I want platforms for both the left and the right to engage in discourse and to learn from each other. I wish this was how the world ran, but both sides have caused corruption to this ideal situation. College campuses are supposed to foster discussion between people who hold all ideologies and viewpoints about life. Of course no one should be required to engage in discussion, but it should be encouraged and applauded. To say that something "isn't up for debate" is disgusting in my opinion. Everything is up for debate.
Can you please blink once in a while.
incidentally, the Right is WAY worse than the Left about safe spaces and being triggered; it's just that the Left invented a really, REALLY stupid-sounding vocabulary to actually talk about those things.
8chan has more free speech than 4chan but even they have one rule. Don't post CP. This is a rule I agree with.
This video and the part before it is an excellent critique on free speech especially on how flawed classical liberals and libertarians view free speech. The left really needs people like you, you're a smart person.   Personally, I've been always been insistent that freedom of speech is never truly compatible with property rights and that certain freedoms are not always compatible with others in general. If you own a store and you have some obnoxious guy in the store saying uncomfortable things, you'd kick the guy out because he'd drive the customers out and it be bad for business. This means that there isn't truly freedom of speech at the private property level because the business owner want it to be a comfortable environment to keep business good. Plus the owner had property rights so he has the ability to kick people he doesn't want out. This shows that freedom of speech is not compatible with property rights. This also shows that there needs to be some limits to speech to an extent for markets to function in order for them to be welcoming customers. This also shows that market economies including free market capitalism is not compatible with free speech. Those pro free market libertarians and classic liberals need to get that to their head.   Also contra, I really hope you become a more prominent figure in the left. Someone who can really challenge guys like Sargon and Dave Rubin. Though this is much to ask of me.
Princeton. Nice.
I really want her and Dave Rubin to debate together. It would be amazing.
I mean ok but no platforming seems more like a euphemism for just banning people. You state that it should be used but never identify who should make the rules or what they ought to be. Milo should be banned from speaking for harassing a trans women but Coulter has done nothing of note against a student.
* fangirl freakout*
HOLY SHIT 'don't tell black people to toughen up' THANK YOU MOTHER
Dude that pineapple needs a safe space...
Safe spaces in publicly funded buildings that exclude people of other races, gender, or sexuality is wrong.
"Universities shouldn't be hosting goddamn trolls" - shows Milo Yiannopoulos. LOOOOOOOOOL. What about that one university that invited Linda fucking Sansour to give a farewell speech to graduates? But sure, Milo should be deplatformed from a completely optional speech, what a joke.
I don't understand the slave woman comment. I'm dumb sometimes - please explain.
god bless you contra
You gloss over the violence which is the main point.  It's the driving force behind the left hates the free speech concept.   Also you talk about colleges having the right to reject certain speakers, and if it's a private college I actually agree.  However it is often not the college that is preventing speakers from speaking, it is the violent mob.  The two main points that get people fired up about this are the violence and people losing their jobs.    Trigger warnings are good.  Safe spaces are problematic, but in my opinion not a threat to free speech.  I also think you ascribing motive to Dave Rubin is very unfair.
I think it's important to remember that 80% of the time, these people have NO idea what a trigger warning is, or even what a trigger is. As someone who cannot keep their filthy mouth shut in public areas, I have debated many of these people and most of the time, they thought that a trigger warning meant "you might get angry at this" or being triggered means being angry. I am a public figure in a community mainly consisting of kids and I am not exaggerating when I am saying that there is an entire generation being brought up using the word "triggered" as "peeved".  It's kinda sad, since it is such an important word for people with actual triggers.
Between this and Donald Trump, we are well and truly screwed.
I see Contra still doesnt understand freespeech..... nothing new to be seen here
I am pro free speech but this can go on NO LONGER! At 6:34 you use shitty audio quality! THAT IS UNACCEPTABLE! Like seriously the other half of the vid has good audio, so wtf?
I believe that there is more to say about the subject. There are more views about speech than this, however, one misleading example that you gave was 4chan.  I don't believe most people on 4chan care about bronies posting thier cancer or pedos doing the same, 4chan in its ideal is where anyone can post anything, and the SYSTEM allowes anyone to get rid of the cancer. Of course, you can't get rid of ALL the cancer, and filters can block you from some good content from time to time.  The free-speech-firsters have this idea that our culture is getting filled with whiny 20-somethings mostly that can't take a JOKE or a different idea, however the "SJWs" or whoever else is on the other side seem to talk about preserving THIER enviornment in which they wont need to deal with the shit that they don't like.  It is as though, free-speechers only care about whiny kids and the "SJWs" only care about getting some filter up, few people are interested in actual opposing viewpoints, and when the sneak to them from behind because of how big they become(white nationalism, pro-assadism yadda yadda), only THEN do they respond.  The message being transferred is completely different than the content, those who have understood this have already moved on.
Look, faggot. Let me explain what the term freedom means in real life. It means free to do whatever you want as long as it doesn't hurt anyone. And no, your precious hurt feelings don't count.
The dishonesty keeps piling up.   And it's not like people like Milo aren't invited by the students themselves to give talks and therefore shutting down the event goes against said students. Nay, those are them bad bullies and need to be kept away from our dear echo chambers. And it's not like "attempts" to silence Milo ever ended on protests, fires, considerable damages and innocent people getting pepper sprayed or beaten up by antifa.  It's not like a student reporting an event was "muscled out" a safe space simply because he was filming a protest.  It's not like there have been cases of law students complaining because they "have to learn about triggering and violent cases" while doing so.  You operate under the assumption that all of these things can only have possitive effects and there is no danger of this oversensitivity and appeal to feelings being abused in any way, even though we have piles of events that suggest.   Either you can't see things without facts being filtered through your ideological lenses and think that all these drawbacks are a necessary evil or you are intentionally ignoring inconvenient facts.
The more than a refugee video by youtube. Do a video about the video. Do it.
You are off once again on a Biased ideological rant about 'what you like' - rather than telling the truth. You Failed again. Firstly, private clubs, bars and 'blogs' have their own rules. This is just market forces. If the rules are shit, no one will wish to be there - If the rules are good and strike some sort of overall balance in the judgement of the patrons - the space, or bar or whatever will sell. The Freedom of speech that is constitutional is indeed ABSOLUTE, There is NO EXCEPTION for so called 'hate' speech. There is only criminal incitement to violence which is an offence & not permitted. There is the facility of seeking court intervention in this case - if disputed. I'm sure you know that. You then go straight to "People should not give a platform to Milo Yianopolous because I don't like him" You once again are an imbecile. Fact - Milo is invited by those who are responsible for the platform. If he had not been invited - he would not be there. He does not walk into a random private room and take over. In the same way that a person, family or group is perfectly permitted to hold a birthday celebration or whatever (legal) & sell tickets, in a hall they have a contract to use, or that they own, the same applies. You may invite anyone you like into your 'Owned/contractually possessed' space. Why are you so dense that you don't get this?  Every time you talk about a concept you slag off people you don't like - This is immature childishness and NOT an argument. Grow up. Someone does not have "No Value" just because you say so - talk about arrogant narcissism.... The difference between you and a reasonable person is that providing the sjw nutters have their own meeting and don't try to stifle my listening to what I choose to - That's fine. The fact that I find sjw content to be worthless drivel does not change my attitude to their freedom to assemble peacefully and have a meeting. Sounds like you need to learn some anger management &, civilised behaviour and so do all those regressive leftists that continue to stifle the ability of others to HEAR what they choose to listen to. Dave Rubin is correct - only leftists violently shut down college meetings. You think not? Prove it with links. There are no violent shutdowns of feminist or sjw meetings that I can see in the news - Maybe this should shake that dogmatic skull of yours up? And if you find a link to a feminist or sjw meeting that was shut down by opposition political activists... let me know. Always ready to change my mind if you can link to evidence. Meanwhile, its clear to everyone who the violent barbaric cavemen are - and who has civil discussions.
Freedom - Freedom is unlimited as long as it doesn't restrict or damage the freedom of another person's freedom or another person's property. Opinions can not restrict anyone's freedom unless they are DIRECTLY inciting violence. Saying that you dislike a certain group is not inciting violence. People seem to have forgotten all of that. Hurting someone's feelings is not violence. When was the last time you saw a feminist that was bruised because that feminist read that feminism isn't doing it's job. So who hates free speech?  Those that riot because of a few words, that are not inciting violence, are the ones who show lack of intelligence. Whoever brings violence to a conversation is, simply said, a dumbass. So the smarter person will ignore those that have such a short fuse, that if an idea opposing theirs pops up they either get violent or run away from the conversation. And this comes from a gay psychologist that grew up in a homophobic society. Simply said, I grew a pair of balls instead of crying for people to accept me and it worked.
Oh god really? A Clockwork Orange reference? Lol, brilliant video, brought up great points about how saying bigoted things or even microaggressions can cause those from marginalized communities to feel not welcomed in prestigious institutions. I'll give you an example, I'm nonbinary, and I work in an environment where my coworkers are transphobic. I mean, sure they're not going to go ahead and kill trans people, but I can't trust them to treat us with respect either since they have said transphobic things. That's the thing, trust. Since they said transphobic things, I cannot trust them to respect me or treat me the same when I come out. Thus, they miss out on an opportunity to interact with a trans person, let alone a trans nonbinary person who might have something insightful to say. Again, fantastic video, keep em comin'!
a country isn't the same as a small group, and a tv show isn't reality, free speech is essential to a country because if not trump could ban islam since it is filled with hate verses, he could also ban leftists on hate charges because there are alot of leftists that think trumps death would benefit america they clearly haven't looked up pence
You throw a lot of bullshit out there to muddy the waters about freedom of speech.      Free speech means that anyone should be free to state their honest beliefs, period. No one deserves violence, or intimidation for stating an opinion. You don't get to live your life free of offense.       You, nor anyone else gets to tell anyone what they can say. Threats, and calls to violence should be the only thing that's not allowed, which aren't opinions, it's calls to action.      Your bullshit is full of unilateral race taboos too. No wonder young folks are so full of shit.
Aren't safe spaces are used for people who suffer PTSD? The same with  Trigger warnings?
I love the "A Clockwork Orange" homage at 9:34
Contra you look so pretty!!   :)
that patreon reading was better than average.
daaammnnn your hair is on point af 🔥🔥🔥
after falling face-first into right-wing youtube, where the left/sjw political view is often ridiculed, exaggerated to the point of insanity, and turned into a vague, faceless ideology, you have really helped me understand the movement (plus your opera references make me feel sophisticated)
I don't get this part at 6:35 about Princeton students and slave women in the garden of Epicurus, or whatever. I sense there's some connection there between the questioning student being black and the comment about slaves, but don't know enough about the history of philosophy to understand what's being said here. Can anyone explain?
"Whether one is suspicious of the merits of college as a whole or cynical about the existence of 'safe spaces,' the truth of the matter is that 'coddled' college students aren’t the problem. The real culprits — on campuses and in the real world — are the persistent effects of homophobia, income inequality, misogyny, poverty, racism, sexism, white supremacy, and xenophobia. When students refuse to accept discrimination on college campuses, they’re learning important lessons about how to fight it everywhere." -- http://wapo.st/1WOSC6k?tid=ss_mail&utm_term=.4ad80b72a451
Nice bewbs! ( . Y . )
Contra you are one of the most privileged people around, you have the looks, the brains, and your mannerisms and accent that suggest a wealthy background. Note - just because you have these things does not mean that most white people do, and this is my theory that white rich people project their own privilege on all white people and that why this group is so common in the ranks of social justice.  How can you be a great mind when all of your ideas are second hand regurgitated from the church of social justice and not your own , you simply perform mental gymnastics to make the blocks fit and you left alot of gaps this time.  Oh btw experts are concerned about the rise in extremism in the far left, we could always break with tradition and try and find some common ground before murdering each other.
Thanks for the content I really enjoyed these videos.  They gave me a new perspective on certain concepts I have had negative experiences with.  To explain, when I first went to university I found myself with a friend group unlike any I had had before, it was very fluid and I was the only person who identified as both my assigned gender and as straight.  I had no problems with this and enjoyed the freedom it gave me.  Unfortunately, by the end, I felt the dynamic had been hijacked by a few manipulative people who had neither gender or mental health issues (at least the ones they claimed) and had affected them purely for attention and control, as leaders of the group.  They collected friends based solely on the bragging rights it afforded them, based on how disenfranchised the friend was; they made others who had real problems completely reliant on them and then ignored their cries for help and they discriminated within the group based on gender, sexuality and mental health, though these were the things they claimed to defend.  They for me perverted the meaning of all of the things you discussed in these videos and I'm thankful that you reminded me of their necessity, still, I worry about how the self-isolation I have seen propagate allows those looking for their place in life to be taken advantage of, and the perception of gender, sexuality and mental health issues as being fashionable due to those that it attracts.
Also, worst part was the nailpolish. Maybe it's the lighting but... idk.
He set down Ivysaur 4 times, and he clearly has an affinity for Chinese. In Chinese 4 is an unlucky number as it rhymes with the word for death, hence why many superstitious people in China will intentionally avoid buildings, floors, and phone numbers with too many 4s in them. Clearly he means to suggest that at best Ivysaur is unlucky, but at worst it is death. Enigma solved: If you want to live, evolve Ivysaur as quick as possible. QED, such logic.
your pronunciation of teacher(老师 laoshi) sounds more like 老(old) 屎(shit) rather than 老(old) 师(master)
Beholdingman sigh ....  to signs?
BEHOLDING MAN SIGHTS THO GHBTIND TO SIGNS?
#MILKYINCEST
That guttural chanting at the beginning tho👌🏿👌🏿👌🏿💀
all these upset free speech warriors or FSWs in the comment section but I can't find a single good argument from them refuting your points, just a bunch of namecalling, sad really
«come [in uno Stato] si potrebbe garantirci dagli amori precoci di fanciulli e fanciulle, dall’omosessualità maschile e femminile, da queste perversioni che sono responsabili di incalcolabili sciagure, non solo per la vita privata dei singoli, ma anche per l’intera società?».                         Plato
This was poetry!  After all, "in a poem you make your point with pineapples"
Since watching this video I have had "It's my party and I'll cry if I want to" by Lesley Gore stuck in my head pretty much continuously...    I'm just glad it's not Earth Wind and Fire like what happened to that climber in "Touching the Void".
sure Milo Yianopoulos is a troll. but leftists deplatformed (violently) Charles Murray who is certainly not a troll. surely you don't believe that is an appropriate suppression of speech
I have a friend who has the same painting/poster of the woman with the red hair that's in your third segment.  Great video though! You just get better every time. :)
Oh good, its still up.
I love the random philosophy quips.
I got to say this video is better than the last one
This is all just so much mental masturbation. We are talking about wider society, not a message board which is meant to have specific parameters of discussion. If you look at censorship heavy societies (East Germany being a prime example) the government rarely stepped in to do any censoring. They simply created an environment where people would self-censor out of fear or rabidly denounce their neighbors on any pretext to avoid scrutiny coming their own way. That's how it works. It is also noteworthy that Germany has appointed a former East German Stasi officer to police their internet for "hate speech." In any case, this is all academic--pedantic really. We have only to look at what is going on at Evergreen State College in Washington to see what YOU people (left-wing extremists) do when anyone disagrees with them on the most trivial of points.  You are well-spoken, ContraPoints, but not so well spoken you can pull-off saying nothing like this and fool anyone with a brain into thinking you’ve made a point.
Love the Chinese! :)
God damn it, I love your videos.  I'm so glad you've kept it going.  I'll say it again - you're one of the best and most entertaining "free thinkers" or "skeptics" out there.
YOU KNOW WHAT, IT WAS JOHN COOPER OF PRINCETON UNIVERSITY  You know, that really did make me laugh out loud.
Hate to break it to ya but if you don't think your ideas will come out on top even if you have the best arguments then you've already lost. How does one win a war of ideas when you don't even believe your ideas no matter how robust can win? Theres no hope for you if you don't even believe in your ability to convince people.
I'm glad these "centrists" who use their misguided-at-best ideas about free speech as a tool to strengthen the right's stranglehold on political discourse aren't really a thing outside the US (and maybe UK).
Problem is 4chan doesn't really enforce its rules, especially not on /b Its not even that hard to find pony stuff on /b http://4chansearch.com/#gsc.q=mlp%2Bmore%3Ab&gsc.sort=(Click it if you want but I'd advise against it)
Very well thought out video. You need more subs., but sadly,  a lot people on here  like "shock value"  channels with little to no research.
You can usually tell when someone is trying to make a legitimate point and when someone is just trying to ruin everything for everyone else. I basically think this should be the determining factor when it comes to if rules are needed or not. You may not like what for example Milo has to say, but if you say he's not trying to make a legitimate point, you're making assumptions about things that it is physically impossible for you to know anything about.
my dinner with andre ;)
The attributing of the origin of 'safe spaces' to the lgbtq community tipped the scales for me so I had to comment. 'Safe spaces' are a therapeutic concept (thus they from psychology) and originally had nothing to do with the lgbtq community, but sure whatever validates your worldview.
thank you contrapoint for the video. Please stand up for the leftist bronies too. No seriously we exist in a way or another.
ESRB and Movie ratings = trigger warnings for those who find violence, sexual images, and disturbing ideas in need of federal regulation.
Can somebody explain what the professor meant by his "Slave women in the garden of Epicurus" statement and why it was offensive. I've rewatched that part a bunch of times and I'mma need some context.
lewd
Straw man backed up by a straw man total disingenuous argument
So we can never actually have true free speech because something is always going to be considered "offensive" or "inciting hatred"
This video is prefect in every way. Thank you fur making it.
There is this pervasive idea that logic and emotions are entirely separate in the human mind, when nothing could possibly be further from the truth: they influence one another at every possible level.
Has anyone solved these enigmas?
you kill me every time
You are fantastic.
I have a problem with terms like safe spaces, trigger warnings, micro aggression, and the people who use them seriously. I also have a problem with anyone who refers to speech as rape or violence.
Wouldn't AA be an example of a safe space? It's a space where alcoholics can take refuge from other people's judgement, because everyone there already understands how it feels to be in that situation. Non-alcoholics are generally not allowed to enter, and when they are it's contingent on the group's permission: if they try to debate someone's experience, they get ejected from the space.
Those new Twin Peaks episodes are pretty confusing
Contrapoints AND always sunny??? yeees.
Can you upload an uncensored version of this video?
Get your retarded SJW videos out of my recommendations.
The argument that you can't be a Democrat and a free speech absolutist is outright proven wrong by Ruth Bader Ginsburg, Alan Dershowitz, Bill Maher, Ice T, Larry Flint, Noam Chomsky, Sarah Silverman, Peter David, John Rawls,  etc. Pretty much all of them were/are bonafide donkey voters.  Karl Popper was far more moderate. He would not have tolerated David Duke, Richard Spencer and other like them. Karl Popper's view was that society cannot be called tolerant if we tolerate intolerance. The argument that, "we should get rid of all the "'X'" shouldn't be tolerated isn't extremist. It's saying that we shouldn't tolerate the right of people to violate other people's rights. To Popper, somebody lobbying Congress to violate somebody else's rights is not somebody participating in a free society but rather a sign that the society itself is unfree.  Not everyone on the left is Tipper Gore in the same way that not everyone on the right is Frank Zappa. For instance, the angry Republicans who tried to censor Stephen Colbert, Kathy Griffin, Bill Maher and Reza Aslan over offensive speech (and succeeded in 2/4 cases) can't say that they support free speech. They've demonstrated full well that they aren't willing to allow people who they disagree with to partake in offensive speech. Apparently, you're only allowed to offend people if you're a registered Republican.
Why don't you do a debate with Jared Taylor?
You sound like a ContraRevolutionary?
Ah, Slow and Serious. Love it.
I love how you lose it at the end.
I would like to apologize. I was deep in the "trigger warning" Tumblr culture, where it was used so freely it lost all meaning. When I got out, it was hard to separate the legitimate calls for protection or need, from the snowflake culture of the site.  I went pretty far in the other direction, to try to hide my shame and what I had become.
Fruitporn is the best porn. :D:D:D:D:D
Agree or disagree, you get a thumbs up for the ACO reference.
Hey guys, I think I'm really going to get into contras videos, really enjoying them, just one quick question. What gender pronoun does contra use? Don't want to get it wrong for future reference.
EYE MAKE UP ON POINT.
I love you
lovely work of art and fucking funny too
The problem with your safe space argument is that nobody is talking about LGBT safe spaces when they're criticizing safe spaces; they're talking about safe spaces like the whole Mellissa Click thing that happened.
Ur so articulate and intelligent but so wrong.
as someone from outside the USA that flag creeps me out just as much as a confederate flag... More actually, no one has invaded the middle east or south west asia (or nuked japan) flying the rebel dixie flag
You're not fooling me, Contra. This whole video was just an excuse to show off your Pokemon card collection, wasn't it?
Your make up is on fleek in this video
If they are honest, everyone has a boundary to the shit they want to listen to, and should be free to control it.   The problem is with people who want to control it for others.  This is most evident with the multi-account right-wing spammers and flaggers that attack channels with the impunity that Youtube has obviously granted them.  Spamming and flagging in the name of free speech?  I don't think so, hypocrites.
wow, so, there's like, a lot of ideas to unpack from this video. first of all, great video, clear and with some funny moments. I have some questions that I'd like to see addressed in the future. For example, do you think the safe space policies should be extended towards a state level or institutional level? Do you think there's a difference to be had between safe spaces in high schools (where we're talking about giving special protection to children) or bars (since they're privately owned bussiness, mostly for leisure activities) and Universities as a whole? Do you think that different groups have the right to different safe spaces  within a community (including, yes, white cishet men) and do you think there should be a space where all these communities can come together to discuss the different ideas they found within their respective communities? Do you think such policies could potentially create echo-chambers that nurture believes that, like you said, are not based on fact but on biases, and would these contribute in some way to a new era of segregation? I'm not American and I'm curious to know how do you see these problems. like I said, great video, I'd just like to know what you think about these things.
So, you are implying laws against homicide contradict freedom of expression? Bull
What I'm loving about your videos is how much thought you're putting into the activities, alongside the spoken text.  The censored 'titty flash' at 2:30 is brilliant, and a really smart provocation about gendered differences in the exposure of body parts, particularly given the gender identity you're occupying.  Great stuff C, keep it up.
Safe spaces are problematic when you start banning people that should not be banned. I agree that this is misuse of safespaces, but it is wrong, and safe spaces by default always cause this and turn into circlejerks. BLMs banning conservative blacks, Pride parades banning conservative gays or feminists attacking females that left their cult are few examples.  Safe spaces turn communities into cults. There is one very important rule in every cult: Isolate members from outside influence. This is what safe spaces often are. Not always, but way too often.  Also generally enclosing yourself in safe spaces is very detrimental for community. Your belief system needs to be challenged so you can check if your logic and arguments are solid. Without criticism we arent able to correct our wrong beliefs and learn new things. People who confine themselves in safespaces lose their feel for what people outside really think, which often leads to bitter disappointment like Hillary loss was for example.
Why did he censor his nipples? you can show male nipples on youtube
4:40 Banning some people completely from appearing on colleges is like if 4chan banned all brony-related stuff on their site.  People such as Milo, Ann Coulter, Julie Bindel etc. coming on campus and making a speech to those who would like it is like someone making a brony post on /mlp/.   If they were standing in the centre of campus with a megaphone, or if they are posting ads and posters up all over the place just to promote themselves, then that might be going to far. If this is the case, then the answer is to stop them putting up posters everywhere, or to limit their lectures to lecture halls/a less public place. The answer is not to outright ban people who you think are just bullies and assholes.  6:10 Correct me if i'm wrong, but did he not cancel one or two of his Milo-shows due to bomb threats, and people have also gone onto the stage to stop him talking? Also, I agree that most of Milo's opponent's actions have only helped him, but wasn't the intention to stop him from giving his talks? Even if they failed the vast majority of the time, their intent was still to silence Milo. Having said that, you're "who hates free speech now?" comment is very good, it is not the left that wants Milo to be silenced, it is 'radical' authoritarians, and they can be from the left or the right. They just happen to be more from the left in this case because Milo is on the right.    I've recently heard the idea that if there is sufficient backlash/opposition to inviting a controversial speaker to campus, then the lecture would have to become a debate between the speaker and someone opposing them. What would your opinion on this be? Personally, i think that this is a great idea, it would give people a chance to directly rebut stupid/bigoted/misogynistic/etc. ideas on the spot, but it would also give a chance to the controversial speakers to defend their views against people who are set in stone with their old-fashioned beliefs.   The questions you raise throughout the video, such as 'what environment do we want in unis and colleges?' etc. are a much better conversation starter the stupid clickbait like 'why is teh left soooo evil and stps ppl from just talking _all_ the time?'. However I think going down the path of stopping people completely from coming on campus to talk is very dangerous, because that is the route to things like book burning (I know this is an extreme example, but still...) We need to be careful and take measured steps towards the ideal college environment, rather than over-compensating and hoping it will be better than the current way.   edit: P.S. i agree that the trigger warning shit has gone too far. It is completely reasonable, if not courteous and kind, to let people know that there could be something potentially triggering to them, and in my experience i have very rarely seen it be over-used.  And even if trigger warnings have been over-used, the correct response is not to make a meme out of it! Why cant people just try to be constructive!
Maybe I need to give Its Always Sunny another chance.  I watched the first few episodes a few years ago but couldn't stick with it cause every character on it just seemed like terrible people without any redeeming qualities.
"Milo is nothing but a troll."  Of course great ruler, your dismissive judgement is almighty and infallible.  "Black people have been tough for centuries."  Yes, great one, your wisdom on reality is unquestionable.  "Classical Liberals use the concepts 'Trigger Warnings' and 'Safe spaces' as arguments against free speech."  You are correct, all wise,  your powers of recollection are impeccable. So it is true the Jews hate Germany.  You would be a great Fuhrer.
the left says they are pro free speech but just have a problem with platforms being given to out and out bigots. The left also gets to decide who bigots are now. if your not white you can't be a bigot because of power structures. if you are a woman criticizing men, can't be a bigot because of male privilege. See where this seems to be going. if you are white and male and want to say anything other than how privileged and and racist white people are then you are a bigot. The hilarious thing is you talk about needing a safe space to stop from being interrogated all the time when your whole identity seems to be very surface level shit, as in your gender and how and who you like to fuck. Belive me we don't care and are fine with you calling yourself whatever you want. when i see you guys introduce yourself most of the time its the name followed by yoir sexual identity or gender binary and a litany of other buzz words you have come up with to make yourselves feel unique. and again most of us don't care. Then you take it further by demanding we change the way we refer to you with pronouns you have also generally made up. But when we refuse to play pretend with you and let you dictate the way we talk you call it bigoted and try to pass laws forcing people to play pretend with you. and don't say its about people not respecting your humanity because no body gets to come to me and tell me i have to call them sir or mr. you are not legally entitled to respect nor am I. so to tie this all back, the left are currently the ones advocating forcing people to use whatever pronoun they chose and  trying to twll white people theres only certain subjects they can talk about because they are white. while the other side may be dicks to you or mean or whatever but they are not trying to force you to either get a sex change or only refer to yourself as man or try to tell you that you can't use made up pronouns, again do your thing we don't care. Again yes we may make fun of you and im sorry if your so sensitive and have had such an easy life that being made fun of is just the same as violence to you. but again its you guys trying to censor and change speech of people who disagree with you. Its your side that is morally righteous as to think that anyone who disagrees must be a racist homophobic bigot that shouldn't be allowed to speak. to me its funny that you are so sure of your all knowing moral superiority while also being so mixed up you don't even know what gender you want to be. so you know if right wingers some how get laws passed that force me to say the Holocaust didn't happen or have to say i belive in god or jesus then yeah i will then say the right is ant free speech. but for right now its you guys, and i hate to say but a lot of it seems to be those who have white guilt are so angry at those who dont and just enjoy their lives that they wont be satisfied until they hate themselves and become as mixed up inside as you guys. I have no shame in being white and am proud of western culture and it seems thats what this is about. You guys feel the opposite and are so triggered by anyone who isnt that you will first try twlling them how evil white people are and how ashamed they should be and then when that doesnt work you want to censor them and say they spew hate speech. when you read between the lines most hate speech is coming from the left as well. mainly self hate that causes people like you to be so mixed up inside. you have nothing to be ashamed of bud. i suspect you really put on the dress because as a white male that was the only way your opinions would be treated as valid by your sjw academic social circle
would it be indecent for a genderqueer person to flash their nips *thinking guy emoji*
The problem with this video is that it's just speculation.  And other people's speculations are different.  So it doesn't get anywhere.
This channel is a true blessing.
I think that sjw rhetoric is hate speech and it is offensive , so I think we should ban this channel and all who supports it.
1. Yes, Milo is a troll, but he still has something important to say (apart from his trolling) and that must be protected. There is a problem with defining his speech as "hate speech": Maybe your demand to ban such people is considered hate speech one day and then you are banned from university. Who decides that? This has never been democratically voted for. It's just the loudest crowd which seems to win the argument at the moment. Is that really the way to go? What if right-wingers would use such a strategy, define everything on the far-left as hate speech and shut them down, just because they are loud and willing to do so? Would you support that or "understand where they're coming from"?  2. I kind of get your criticism of Rubin. He does not engage with opinions like yours, but he is still right. You criticised the "marketplace of ideas" but didn't show any alternative. The conclusion, that the best ideas don't always win, is not new. Still it's the best we got. What's the alternative? Again: The loudest may win? The one on the left wins? If there would be something like 60 % of the people agreeing with you, we'd have a debate. Until then this whole strategy reminds me a lot of Authoritarianism and you are their apologist.  3. Safe spaces can be created at home or while meeting friends. You don't have a right for safe spaces on a college, because that's not what a university is about. If we should think about something, then that people HAVE to engage with totally contrarian people and arguments. Kind of an "anti-safe-space" - the other way only supports what you criticised on your own (at the end): People are mostly just picking up, what other people in their social environment believe and try to constantly verify themselves. Anti-safe-spaces would be a solution to that. I think you contradict yourself here.
wait but if idiot antifemenists are getting triggered by a trigger warnings according to are own logic makes them cry baby special snow flakes
I want to see Contra on the Rubin Report. That'd be great YouTube.
tiddy flash? tiddy flash! TIDDY FLASH!!!
the left is rising
How was what Cooper said bad?
Contra looked stunning in the Laoshi sequences.
I love you contra you're my favorite degenerate
Dear lord, what the fuck is that?
Re evidence for the erosion of free speech: some have noticed that their honest opinions would alienate themselves in educated circles yet not for being unfounded e.g. Religious views, views on immigration or gay cakes etc. Being on the other side of things you have a certain "lib privilege" of not noticing the many ways in which rightists are microaggressed upon by the dominant left wing bias of middle class society
Have you ever done stand-up? If not you should give it a try, you would be good.
I honestly forgot that they had a rule against racism on 4chan  J_Jonah_Jameson_Laugh.MOV
Where does it leave us if you justify the free speech disrupters (e.g. The anti milo protesters) but then say that you don't support them? Then you bring up this Plato expert. Where does it leave us if you think you say it was a faux pas but say it was a "microaggression", and doesn't in itself make any difference to the number of black Plato enthusiasts? I'll continue to look for answers elsewhere and not with the left, because although you're the best of the bunch here on YouTube, your answers seem so nuanced they fail to conclude. I'd even suggest that your head agrees with the rightists but your heart hates their motivation for it.
thank you contra. thank you dark mother.
I love you
You are amazing Contra, I'm so glad to be aware of your existence.
Slow clap!!!
For the most part, this comes down to a very simple disagreement between two groups of people: 1. the people that think we should regulate the use of sticks and stones. 2. the people that think we should regulate the use of sticks, stones and words.  People who are not hurt by words see no reason why there should be any restriction on their use and therefore expect absolute freedom. We therefore have two choices. 1. Teach the people (who are not hurt by words) empathy 2. Teach the people (who are hurt by words) not to be  Both choices have their benefits...
Okay, I have to say that I don't believe you're portraying the classical liberal/libertarian/whatever else viewpoint correctly. I  have never any one claim that free speech means ALL speech, because obviously there is speech that incites violence and could be considered abuse sooo yeah you were strawmaning.  About trigger warnings and safe spaces: the whole reason they are a problem is because of how they're being misused. I support having safe spaces for lgbt people (being one myself) though I do have issue with certain clubs and societies in universities for minorities because they do tend to breed hatred and make people more divided. And I'm not saying this as an angry white person who wants the right to go anywhere they please. I say this as a black women who has seen how isolated black people can become from the society as a whole. Societies like that should be open to members who do not belong to that minority (with certain exceptions where there may be vulnerable students) but should also have the freedom to kick out any member who is being offensive.  I feel the same for trigger warnings. I've seen classical liberals and even conservatives use them, because they are important, but YOU try trying to post on a facebook group when people are calling you a BIGOT for not putting a trigger warning for *every single thing* in the post. It's getting out of hand and the left should address that.  And going back to the argument of the left hating free speech, which you didn't outright answer instead just told us why we need to restrict ourselves, yes I do believe the left hates free speech. They actively work to silence people through the LAW. They will not let any new ideas be discussed within their circles and if you cannot learn anything new how can you possibly grow? It prevents bad ideas from being removed and replaced with better ones. Is that not progression? Of course part of that means we hear bad ideas, but I like to think we're all grown up enough, as a collective, to take that idea and point out all the flaws, so that we don't the idea, rather that not discuss the idea and demonise a whole demographic, to the point where they take on the idea because to them, the minorities would be the enemy. And why wouldn't they be, if they've been subjecting them to the same harassment over and over again.  One idea that leftist in general hate, is the idea that all cis straight men are privileged and all members of any other minority is oppressed. It's this attitude that leads to actually privileged minorities to believe that a poor homeless cis white male is more privileged than they and doesn't require any help. In fact, the whole of society treats men pretty shitty and simply bringing that idea up is considered violence and is suppressed. And I don't know if you've noticed, but there are some black supremacists and paedophile advocators cropping up under the guise of social justice which is just disgusting, but I've seen many people support them. One of which I know is very talented on her use of language, and uses very clever techniques to successfully guilt white people, to the point where they will not think for themselves and listen to any lies she spouts.  Ignoring the truth is something the left is good at (and also the right. The right doesn't get a free pass and soon they will be just as bad) and it's something we need to trash if we are true progressives.  And on the topic of the left, Dave Rubin IS on the left. He has said many times that because he is on the left, he has to call out what 'his people' do, just as most if not ALL leftist and liberals would do, though some choose to do it wrongly to further their own agenda.  I myself respect the value of free speech as well as the reasonable restrictions placed on speech to protect other freedoms. Like I said before, without free speech, we. cannot grow as a society and I want to see change because while I may be an 'antisjw' and essentially a centrist, more so than Rubin at least as I do have a few. conservative views (because a black queer women can have conservative views- we are not hiveminds), I still want social justice, or rather, I want social equality and I don't think the left and sjws are heading in that direction. So if I can, I'd like to speak freely so I can contribute towards social equality.  And just a little side note because this pissed me off a little, Milo wasn't simply a troll, he had valid ideas he wanted to share, some of which I agreed with. He's a provocateur though, he wasn't inciting violence. Of course he did insult some people and I don't think it's right to attack people's arguments with insults as I've seen him do at least once.
Can someone please explain to me why what the professor (John Cooper) said to the black student (about slaves and women) was offensive? I honestly don't understand (I'm not American).
beholdingheman sightstho g--tindtosigns  as far as i could be fucked to get.
I'm a bit disappointed. Here I was expecting you to address the most important argument. Who decides what is offensive and how do they arrive at that conclusion to enforce laws? We're not talking about someone barging into your private gathering, hurling insults and and claiming "free speech!" So please no straw manning and no assuming of my gender.  This actually brings me to a good example. Is someone yelling "don't assume my gender" in an obviously sarcastic tone hate speech because the person's tone was sarcastic? How can you tell if the person was being sarcastic? To you it might be obvious but not to others. So who decides?
headshot: man Contras looking cuter then normal. midshot: HOLY FUCK LOOK AT THOSE GUNS, FUCKER LIFTS.
LGBT safe spaces are wonderful to such an extent that straight people are "invading" them. In the gay club where I used to go, there was a roll call. Hands up if you're gay. Hands up if you're lesbian. Trans. Bi. Straight.  On most evenings, more than half the room was straight. In a gay club. Tolerance, being friendly and just having a good times without prejudice ... straight people love it and we go to gay clubs to experience it.
Milo seems okay. Hes just a gay feminine man that has a very natural position against a people who hold a religion that wants to criminalize his life, or kill him.  Seems very reasonable to me
I don't like liking you
"Tell me Dave, who hates free speech now?" The people who want to beat you out of talking?  Or the people who tell you they don't want you to talk while under their name. Come on Contra.  Also, you don't want to discuss the morality of the Berkeley riots ("silencing") because they failed to silence Milo (6:05)?  So, essentially, wrongdoings are morally insignificant until the motive, under which they were done, is fulfilled? I can't entertain the thought of you genuinely meaning that.
ngl i have no idea what is going on in those transitions but you look like a beautiful little red riding hood who is about to eat me so im feeling them anyways!
The idea that "there are only two genders" is basically just denying that gender and sex are delineated in any way and that gender is in anyway socially constructed.  As ludicrous as I find the denying of the social construction of gender to be, a person could hold this position and not deny the existence of trans and non-binary people.   What the viewpoint would consist of would be the idea that the basis of biological sex being reproduction we should see sex distinctions, such as genital sex, phenotype, etc. as a built in set of traits as part of sexually reproductive organisms.  Some people exist who vary from the standard sets, but the fact that these people exist does not mean that they form a "new gender" but that they contain a combination of traits from the two genders.    So what this person would basically believe is that there is "body sex" and "brain sex."  Brains sex would basically be what we call gender.  A trans person at birth would have a different body sex than their brain sex.  Now this viewpoint causes all kinds of issues and I disagree with it, but it requires a lot of unpacking of the specific claims to show why its wrong. I encounter people like this all the time, anti-feminists who use the existence of trans people to argue against the existence of gender as a social construct because trans people exist and this proves that a person's brain is hardwired with "brain sex" even if their "body sex" is different.   You can often learn a lot from analyzing and taking apart bad ideas.
Fuck you're too flawless
His Eyes!! 10:29
Hell yeah new contrapoints video. It's 2:30 am and i'm making myself a bowl of cereal for this
i think i can sum this video up by saying, CP AND THE LEFT DO NOT UNDERSTAND WHAT DE-PLATFORMING IS!!!, he doesnt understand how people like milo get their freespech taken by physical threats of harm, and police do nothing. he doesnt even understand that trigger warnings are deplatforming people from supposed public spaces. the left is deplatforming people, getting them fired by threats of suing their employer, not virtue signalling their employer. thats not even an aceptable free response... its directly against the law to make a false accusation, unless its rape. WHICH MAKES WOMEN DEPLATFORM MEN EVEN MOORE. you guys have no idea what the actual shut down of free speech is. you think us cussing you out and thumbing down your video is censorship or deplatforming OR shutting down your freespeech. ITS NOOOT. THATS WHAT YOUUU GUYS DOOO WHEN YOU BREAK THE LAW, MAKE VIOLENT THREATS, AND TELL LIES. FOR FUCKS SAKE.
CP you know nothing about de-platforming. u saying that milo was only taken his free speech away when his book label and HE RESIGNED FROM BREITBART... that makes no sense. he was deplatformed at the antifa riots university incident, and when blm took his stage and threatened him physically and the police did nothing. so sorry dude, fuck you, you take everything out of context, make ambiguous statements about  trigger warnings to support your hate of free speech and your need to moderate it on other people through youtube instead of making your own platform through work and public events, instead of youtube videos, which sorry, are open to the free market of thought, including hatespeech. stop crying, strawmanning, and generalizing everyone, including black people all as one. "theyre tougher and taken more than you" wtf kinda statement is that. problem with that statement is youre generalizing black people to all as one, and they are different by your own example. so.. therefore your argument falls apart cuz you decontextualizing the situation by comparing it with every other black perosn in history. please stop doing that. pleasse stop this topic, we know the left hate free speech and hate speech and youve proven you do too.
Love you. Let's collab. And by collab I mean give me your lights.
My WoW guild is a safe space. And we have many people who aren't lgbt. But we have a decently large percentage of transgender people because when you're playing a gane the last thing you want is dealing with slurs and hostility towards your existence. Does that mean we won't let in certain people?   Sure. But there are other guilds for them. The thing about safe spaces is they can apply to any part of the social and political issues we are facing as a world. Its not just s "left" thing.
I am officially dead with laughter after those last few minutes.
this video should be called, how to strawman freedom... of speech, by comparing it to EVERY other freedom and take it out of context as well. fuck your rules.
Contra, would you agree to appear in Dave Rubin's show as a guest? You know Dave treats his guests with respect.
Do you think Dave does all the "trigger warning/safe space" jokes to fit in with the alt-right troll crowd, or to get people to keep watching and hear the good stuff?
Beholding Man Sights Thoughts Ind Tosigns  someone help
Buen video contra
i never understood the arguments and freakouts over safe spaces honestly. it was ridiculous and over the top over something that was harmless
It is very refreshing to hear an American recognise the need for reasonable limitations on speech so that speech can truly be free.
Okay, the censor bleep joke at the end was funny, but it's extremely unpleasant to have to hear that high a pitch for prolonged periods of time, js.
The SJW side of youtube is so cringey. But you at least try to make rational arguments based on research. Even if I disagree with what you advocate, I can at least respect your methods.
Oh my god, please don't put the thought of someone fucking a pineapple in my head. That bromic acid would slowly eat their junk
Hurry up and finish this series so I can share it with everyone I know. W H O  I S  T H E  T R I A N G L E  M A N
Wonderful stuff, Contrapoints. I particularly enjoy what you had to say about the "free market place of ideas." It really amazes me that people have so much faith in human beings' natural ability to think and reason. Confirmation bias and deeply ingrained beliefs inform how we view and interpret information and evidence. Search on YouTube for any debate between a scientist and a creationist, and no matter how amazing the scientist does in the debate and how many scientific facts he or she presents, the creationist viewers will always hail the likes of Kent Hovind as the victor.   People don't care much for the truth and objective reality. They care about what makes them feel affirmed and vindicated about their worldview. Add in the fact that most people are not very good at thinking critically and being skeptical in how they examine arguments, and you have a mixed bag of biased and gullible individuals who are vulnerable to propaganda. And this is exactly how, in the market place of ideas, misinformation and ignorance spreads.   In the war of ideas, "bad ideas" rely on being given credibility by being offered an equal seat at the discussion table opposite of the "good ideas." Classical liberals truly do underestimate the layer of anti-intellectualism that blankets the public conscious, especially in America, or how exposing the public to toxic and predatory rhetoric swings the pendulum away from progress and into a very scary direction.
Yes.
that last part reminded me of nightcrawler so much
Trigger warnings being censorship always confused me; they never prevent anyone from reading/watching the material. They're there to say "heads up, this is in here." For example, one professor described how she would include warnings on her syllabus and also let students know that they can ask her for heads up on anything not included. One student requested warnings on eating disorders because they were recovering from one, for instance. Another wanted a heads-up on anything relating to drugs because they were a former addict. Everyone was still expected to be familiar with the material and discuss it, but those triggered by the material could approach it at their own pace and could prepare for it however they needed, whether it was a meeting with a psychiatrist or just having something else prepared for afterwards.
Wtf are you sitting on a toilet??
well.  I am in love
It's a good day when there's new ContraPoints, Kat Blaque, and Garrett
What I find really ironic about people making fun of Safe Spaces, especially those who consider themselves on the far-right, often have their own safe spaces. One example I have is of a discord group of several hundred people I joined out of curiosity, it was some kind of far-right hang out. In the rules of the discord it explicitly prohibits "leftist bullshit". The same people who whinged about Safe Spaces and trigger warnings needed their own place where their own ideas wouldn't be challenged or ridiculed by others, essentially just a Safe Space for bigots, But you can see this implied in lots of far-right forums online. It's honestly kind of funny. I guess deep down everyone is a little bit of a sensitive baby that needs to be coddled a bit, regardless of how shitty your opinions are.
Brilliant video...Work sucks ass, but I might get a job just to give you money.
Okay. I'm convinced.   I was wrong.
17:45 is an awfully long time to to take when a simple "yes" would suffice.
reported :D
Let the people make the rules. And destroy the government and Capitalism. Everything shall run like a cooperative. Anarcho Communism now
I'm someone who is... not necessarily on the same side as you. I find your points interesting but I have to disagree with them. First, when it comes to free speech, it is my belief that you should let people (even like Milo though I don't agree with him) talk. if you give him enough rope he will hang himself. I know you kinda addressed this in your 4th point but I don't think you gave it enough time. you said that Milo's popularity came from when people tried to silence him and you are absolutely right. this is why I don't agree with having people like Milo shut out. if you shut them up it'll make what they have to say seem like hidden truths that the establishment doesn't want you to know (which is obviously bs. his ideas are generally bad). it's when you let these people speak that you see that they are insane. I guess I have a more optimistic mentality when it comes to this. when it comes to the topic of safe spaces and trigger warnings, I doubt many people generally care. when they care is when it gets out of hand. for example, if an entire University is considered a safe space it can be scary for a student to say their opinion because they don't wanna be chastised. I think the main thing we need to do is open a dialogue with people who don't agree with us but if a University is seen as a safe space it may be horrifying to do that. this sort of self censorship should be avoided. but I digress, the main reason for safe spaces is understandable and I'm not completely against it, I just don't want it to start to encompass everything and while I admit that some on "my" side do tend to fearmonger about this, I doubt that many actually believe everything that's being said about it. I think most just don't want it to get out of hand. I feel like I rambled a bit here (I actually almost certainly did) but I have one last thing to say. almost no one from their own perspective is a bad person. everyone believes that they are good. it's important to remember this when talking to people that disagree and it's important to see their perspective. i have a friend who is going to Boston University and they showed an excerpt from a play about trying to find the humanity in a Nazi. they did this to promote free discussion and this free discussion needs to be promoted everywhere. I respect what you're saying but I don't necessarily agree but I think that that's a good thing. the only reason I found you was because vernaculis did a response to one of your videos and I'm glad I watched, it was genuinely interesting
How do you eat that?!
I love the use of Gymnopedie No 3.
So I have become more familiar with some epithets of philosophy within the last couple of years, and have also been moved much farther left, I'd like to say a few things that I guess are both part statement/part question.  This last semester I took a phenomenology course (everyone's favorite amiright?) and although I had some vague interest in the classical phenomenologists (Husserl, Heidegger who I'm sorry to say was a Fascist) I was much more interested in the New Phenomenologists like Derrida and especially Hans Georg Gadamer. Gadamer because he seemed to address very simple concepts in a big way using the language and attacking the hurdles that faced philosophy, like for instance he said that although language doesn't have concrete semantic meaning it can have a shared ontology based on cultural backgrounds that allow us to similarly discern the meaning of the object or word in question despite the infinite number of interpretations that are possible. However, he also addressed that despite this quality, our cultures are often locked into our person (or as some phrase it "world disclosing") and prevent us from breaking out into a greater number of shared meanings, resulting in catastrophe. Thusly, the only way to increase shared meanings and avoid tragedy is to communicate. This is not only interesting to me concerning my interests in foreign policy and diplomacy (since America in its infinite wisdom has often never sought diplomatic negotiations with nations unless they present an opportunistic venturism or grave threat to their hegemony), but I think this also goes for conversations about the livelihood and protection of the most vulnerable (ie the LGBT community, Muslims, the poor and so on). In my pragmatism class we had the pleasure of enjoying a presentation on free speech in the context of a certain program (I can't remember what it was it had something to do with Walter Benjamin and the Angel of History) and the Liberal utopian ideal of free speech (that everyone deserves a platform no matter what, unhindered free speech etc) to which a friend of mine asked "What about the instance in which a person is not a rational animal (as Kant presumes) and in fact is motivated by hate and other vices." This is the instance in which the Liberal ideal of free speech immediately falters and we recognize that for one, people are often not rational, and two, that speech is yet another politics of power (as Foucault would say).  So then, how do we create an environment where we can communicate our individual meanings over the ontologically shared subject matter if not only the people we are trying to make peace with are not rational, already don't respect the institution of free speech (and often resort to violence), and this world disclosing barrier exists that fortifies their beliefs? Although in many ways it may seem a bias confirming idea, if the politics of power concerning free speech doesn't work to the advantage of these most vulnerable communities, what use does it have?
Not only was this video great, but your arms look FANTASTIC, Contra!
Hitchen's idea is BULLSHIT in 2017.  Yes, that made sense back in 1740 when most couldn't read, there was no public access TV, no blogs, no YouTube, etc and your ONLY way to be heard was forcing others to hear your rant.  Nowadays it's ABSURD to think that.  GTFO.  You have something to say, well, have at it, boss.  There are literally dozens of places for you to rant--but I don't have to hear it, and I won't feel bad for deplatforming your from ONE platform.  Bitch.
Anybody supporting Milo needs to watch Creationist Cat's video on him.
omg i just rewatched clockwork orange today.  thanks for doubly bringing back my 14yo crush on malcolm mcdowell
can't think of a single thing that isn't perfect about that bathroom scene
These two videos have been really interesting, thank you for making them. I knew that the constitutional right to free speech didn't guarantee someone a right to say anything in any platform, but didn't consider the potential silencing effect of hate speech on others... Otherwise, it makes me sad to see people making fun of free speech, even ironically.
Sure. Of Course they do. That's why so many 'liberals' come under fire for defending the rights of the people who attack them. Ugh... "Free Speech" is not Mario's invincibility star. Using your voice to be hurtful or hateful is legally protected(in most cases) but that doesn't mean you're free from the repercussions of what you say. Conservativism is supposed to be about taking personal responsibility. So why all the deflecting and victim-play when the piper comes due? Buncha Goddamned babies...
Fucking INCREDIBLE opening and some great talking points in the video. Love your cinematographic style!
So, in short, the answer is no.
The muscles plus women's clothes are an interesting look.
My sociology teacher used the term 'safe space' once at the start of a class discussion and defined it as the students could say anything on their mind (regarding the topic) without any negative consequence like violence or her lowering their grades for example. I think it made any reactionaries in the class very confused.
ahh! nice boobies!! your brain and your bod. swoon.
well done as always...
Thank you dark mother. Kind mother.
Everything you said seems like common sense. The fact that so few people are saying these things now shows you're right to be scared -- evidence and logic don't count for much any more (if they ever did). So that makes you a sort of hero for daring to say what should be obvious, right? Okay, I know, it's just hyperbole. But watching you gives me hope.
I will pay you $20 if you record, edit and post an (at least) hour long conversation with Jordan Peterson focused on good faith debate about these topics. If you can't do it in person at least have both sides locally record their audio and sync it up in post, rather than having one side recorded their audio from Skype or whatever.   I'm certain others would be willing to contribute to such a project as well.
I disagree with some of the points being made in this video, but I really love your arguments and your absurdist approach to political commentary. Great video!!!
If I wasn't as old as shit, I would be called a fangirl... regardless, my love is deep and I think I shall  profess it on twitter. *I wonder what my rather right leaning followers will think? Fuck it. I'll disown the right and the left  for Contra.* -#1 fan..woman
Contra you're so HOOOOOOOT
Do you ever get tired of attacking strawmen while putting a little nuance in your relatively one sided, polarised arguments?
17:10 unsleeved cards? Reporting this video m8.
Eh, the problem with this video is the argument that allowing bigots to speak will silence the speech of minority students as well as ruin good intelligent debates between liberals and "good faith" conservatives for two reason:   1.) Most colleges are extremely liberal and even dictate that their staff be liberal as well as well as sometimes punishing conservative students, so that being the case, will one measly vulgar conservative speaker have that much of an impact on the school's environment, specially when radical and sometimes violent far-left speakers and teachers outweigh the conservative ones, which bring me to my second point: 2.) If you want to lead a fight against bigoted, violent, and radical speakers and teachers who contribute very little to our modern political conversations, then I would hate to say it but, you've already lost that battle.  People like Al Sharpton (an anti-semitic "civil-rights leader" who once kickstarted one of the worst polgroms in this nation's recent history: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Crown_Heights_riot) are speaking in schools, while violent terrorists like Ward Churchill are also welcome, meanwhile two other extremists/terrorists, (Bernadine Dohrn and Bill Ayers) are also teaching as professors in major American schools.  This is why I laugh at the liberal argument, "Well you wouldn't allow terrorists to speak in colleges would you?"  We already do, in fact we made them into educators teaching the future leaders of America.  There have also been allegations of certain professors convincing their students to shut-down speakers they see as racist, homophobic, etc.  And thats the problem, people like Milo are kicked out of colleges, violently at times, and people like Sharpton are Ayers are rewarded for their extremist views.  Also how many kids in schools that both Bernadine Dohrn and Bill Ayers have taught in are members of the armed forces or have family in the armed forces?  I ask that because both Dohrn and Ayers conspired to blow up a bomb full of shrapnel near an army reserves.  Ann Coulter and Milo never tried to endanger someone's life and yet people demand they be censored, the students of the armed forces could care less about Dohrn and Ayers, they have no problem with these people speaking.  Maybe the left ought to take a note from them.  I also like how you mentioned Milo's de-platforming, while i am against it, i find it interesting how far the right is willing to distance itself from "extremists."  While the left embraces them with open arms.  I guess what trying to say is this:  the problem isn't just safe spaces (although I do think they can be a major problem), because the whole damn thing (colleges) is a safe space, not for minorities, or queer folk, but for liberal views.  This in turn has transformed colleges into echo-chambers that have little to no ideological or intellectual diversity, is it a surprise then that these violent and hateful radicals are embraced in many Universities, as their is no ideological diversity to argue against their insane points?  And this goes beyond censoring highly controversial conservative speakers.  Contra alludes to approving of intelligent debates between liberals and "good faith" conservatives, and yet even conservatives who simply want to speak about certain economic and social issues are censored as are their supporters, who are then disciplined by the school administration, as was the case with one Cal Poly student.  There have even been cases of African American conservative speakers being shut down or censored as well as teachers being giving "guidelines" as to how to engage with students in ALL classes, and most of the time these guidelines are based on leftist ideas. Here's a nice documentary about the whole issue: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WHyvRHrYYBA That being said I enjoyed the video quality, production wise you have improved greatly.  Kudos on the reference to Newgrounds.
Another superb video, Contra. Great job.
Can you make a video addressing Jordan Peterson saying that gender and sex don't vary independently? I think Peterson has a pretty interesting psychological perspective. I was actually wondering how you'd address his arguments or claims.
regarding freedom of speech, i believe that the impact any words have are the responsibility of the listener and i don't see any reason to silence any words spoken. If i hear ideas i disagree with, i just disregard them. If those ideas catch on with many people, well, it is their choice which words they give credit to. How could i, or anyone, be so arrogant to believe we can distinguish truth from illusion and then impose that distinction upon others?  With me, this idea is closely tied to a feeling of total apathy towards the way things pan out. Tomorrow will be different from today. There is no telling how things may change but change is guaranteed and so to be truly comfortable with existence in this moment i find i must accept any future as whatever will be.  Dogs chase their own tail.
I'm a philosophy student, and I'm probably just an idiot, but could you please explain Cooper's comment to me? I know about Epicurus, but I can't figure out what's he's implying with that comment. Thank you.
Awesome, I get to watch this one before people with no intelligent counterpoint (geddit?) get it taken down!
YES.
My idea of censorship is linked to property rights. Anyone who has property rights to a certain platform, facility or institution can choose what to censor, and whom to discriminate against.
Excellent stuff, as always. I'm going to go back and rewatch that Always Sunny episode.
Watching before this gets taken down
Contra, Are you into vore?
This has nothing to do with the points you're making (which I agree with), but you have a very cool weird aesthetic that shines in your more mysterious scenes. It makes me think you would be a great director of strange psychological horror.
Contra youre looking more and more beautiful every video you make (that or I'm becoming increasingly queer)
i love the fact that you point out that as much as the anti-sjw shit lords on youtube love to victimize themselves, the 2-gender idea is the mainstream idea. i had to have gone through cognitive dissonance to dispel the ideas of a gender binary. i remember as a gay man, i thought the ideas of demisexual and all the other variations of gender and sexuality were ridiculous and then it was a process of questioning why i am attracted to men. then i realized these aspects of "men" that i was attracted to are mostly socially constructed.
Comicbookgirl19 is sacked, you're my new Youtube crush.  Cracking video, smashing it on all levels.
"caricature college aged leftists as delicate whiny snowflakes which well, there might be a little truth to that" ..... A little? Are you fucking serious?
Is it just me, or has contra points been working out?
The bleeping makes it. Good, comedic bleeping is sometimes better than tons of curse words in a row.
Your videos are making me not want freedom of speech anymore.
I lived on a college campus for 5 years and I encountered exactly ONE trigger warning, and it was for the light design in a play potentially triggering seizures.
This is the best shit I've watched in like a decade.
You are just the best
You're getting better and more accurate with each video. You're basically voicing all the concerns I've had ever since I started using message boards (4chan included), as I developed into a feminist, libertarian socialist, Latin American cis woman (how's that for interseccionalism!). Keep up the amazing work. You're appealing to many people and your message is worth spreading because you're definitely not alone in this.
That's a big cucumber
I am aware of one instance of safe spaces that I considered quite problematic. That was at a university where a group was campaigning for housing where no white students would be permitted (i.e., a "safe space" for black students to live in). That is pretty much it in terms of examples though.   There are no such examples for trigger warnings though. I also have been in academia since 2004 and have yet to see a trigger warning (though my old office was a "safe space" in the sense that it had a sticker I put on it indicating homophobia would not be tolerated). So I have seen one safe space.
There's nothing *abstract* about the concept of freedom. Either I am free to speak my mind or I am not. It's not more complicated than that.  When you start saying "freedom is limited, one persons freedom speech infracts on another persons right not to be offended"  you're just making the classic argument of the censor. "I limit this freedom in the name of the greater good (protecting Christian values/protecting the Soviet state/protecting POC etc.)."  You should be more honest Contra, say what you mean. "PJW, Milo, alt-right are growing movements, and none of our arguments have been sufficient to stop their growth, therefore we demand the state end with the law what we have been unable to counter with the force of our arguments".  I'm sure admitting this to yourselves will be liberating.
Um, I wrote an essay on Safe Spaces using the theories of Lorraine Code, John Dewey, and Plato this past year to explain why Safe Spaces are a necessity.  Also, I do love Erik Satie.
I always watch YouTube videos when I workout. The only thing I hate about this channel is a can't watch it while on the treadmill. Contra's videos are just too weird to watch in public. I learned that after the alpha male video.  (The end proves my point)
Oh and fukken saved!
With the trigger warning stuff, I was seeing my psychologist a month ago and we were discussing my anxiety to riding on trains, she asked me "do you know what the trigger might be?" I legitimately had to stop for a second and process what she asked me. Was she attempting to make a joke about my poor mental health? Of course not, but because of the "triggered" jokes out there now I find it hard to believe anyone asking in good faith what may be wrong with me.
If that shirt said PaTTy's Irish Pub, that would be an awful case of cultural appropriation.  You escaped by spelling the name with Ds. And, as a British person, I'm more than qualified to get offended on behalf of the Irish!    You're not allowed to post racism on /b/ that's why they have /pol/  OK, you are now required to do a video cosplaying as Alex the Large or any one of his Droogs!  Where does that TRIGGERED icon come from?  I grew up in the 1990s, the time of Lad Culture, the time where the LGBT community weren't exactly viewed in the most progressive light, as white-cis-het-scum (at the age of 19, much younger and better looking than I am now) I did feel odd being invited to the local student gay pub.  Even more so than I normally do in social situations, I was young and dumb and it was the 1990s in a Northern (English) town.    Never has the 1kHz tone sounded so comforting :D  Though whatever was bleeped out, I'm sure it wouldn't disgust me as much as seeing you eat raw cucumber... ugh *STOP!!*
“The human mind is not very rational. People pick up most of their beliefs from the culture around them, and often times, people seem to believe things for really self-interested reasons that have nothing to do with what is true or what the strongest arguments support.” Oh. Kinda like being non-binary?
Have you been workin out? Looking good Contra
Is contra getting more buff?
I love how this channel is Regular Car Reviews but for the non-car things I care about
BAHAHAHAHAHAHAAA! "And I like the sound that it makes!" Thank you Contra! I have not laughed that freaking hard in a long ass time!  The freaking CWO reference was HYSTERICAL as well!=) Other then that, not feeling you on this one luv...But so freaking funny! I really would love for you to address the Left's political rage and not so newly  inspired violence. Sick, twisted, angry, resentful, extreme Leftists (such as scumbag Loretta Lynch/Madonna ,multiple ignorant asshole celebs, etc) are actually calling for blood in the streets. These people are clearly using their free speech to insight violence publicly. Will you denounce such acts Contra? What about the rules and how they are so clearly different for say Hillary Clinton, scumbag Loretta, Obama and ALL of the evil, mean spirited, hate speech loving left? Had someone held a severed head of Obama, or put on a play of Obama being assasinated...What do you think would happen?!? Snoop idiot's career would have been over if he shot an Obama look alike...Or if some freak shot up dems on that ball field, could you imagine what would have come down on Trump? Why don't you take on the violence towards Trump supporters by Looney ass HATE FILLED leftists? What I hear is this constant defense of all of these assanine concepts like free speech /Safe Places.  Yet you dont adress the fact that it is actually ENCOURAGING the hatred.  It is bullying! If we dont agree with the whiney brats we have  triggered them! The bullshit that it is just a courtesy is a joke. I am a survivor of Childhood sexual abuse.  Would it have been to any benefit to me for me to expect perfect strangers to censor themselves, or warn me if they think something that they wanna say may or may not trigger me? SERIOUSLY!?! The world would have been a pretty freaking dark place if I expected that courtesy Contra...Who can sustain such an expectation without feeling abused constantly!?! Entitlement is a mental disorder! Unrealistic expectations lead to dissapointment, bitterness, anger, hatred! Yes, we should all be considerate, but guess what..Most are not! Nor should they be FORCED TO be! You don't have to like everyone! This is America..YOU CAN CHOOSE NOT TO LISTEN TO THOSE WITH WHOM YOU DONT AGREE!  They declare that the right or any of us that think freely are the dishing  that HATE. .Yet I dont see the right beating up Hillary supporters, stabbing bernie supporters (leftists stabbed a guy 9 times because he had Trump stickers!), running around  with masks on their faces, assaulting people, bullying people and defiling the US flag! How is that not hate? By teaching these millennials that their righteous in their anger, HATRED and bullying  (just because they dont like what someone else has to say) is indeed encouraging that hatred and resentment. Most importantly, it breeds a hate filled SPIRIT OF ENTITLEMENT. Instead of teaching our kids to have a thick skin (wtf ever happened to "Sticks and stones may break my bones but words will never hurt me!"?), work for everything they want, that they are responsible for taking csre of themselves and their familiy's needs like education/healthcare/abortions/gender reassignment surery...etc. they are being taught that the world CARES about their feelings (BULLSHIT)/should be FORCED to not only accept, but love, celebrate and freaking FUND ANYTHING THAT THEY WANT TO BELIEVE IS RIGHT IN THEIR PERSONAL lives...Even if it goes AGAINST the other persons rights to freedom (BULLSHIT!).  That they have a right to hate, BULLY and silence through such bullying (name calling, spilling if blood, bearing false witness, spending tons of taxpayer dollars on bullshit congressional hearings/investigations, whatever it takes!)anyone that does not agree with them. Why are you not taking this where it NEEDS TO GO? Why not speak on how the US Left has become a hateful, communistic, violent, dangerous rabbit hole of HATE.  The very thing the cry babies are saying that they are fighting against w/ the right. The public left (media, politicians, former Obama admin, professors that I have encountered, all left that are in the public eye, setting the example for the left to the everyday sleepwalker) DO hate ANY speech, any person, any politician, any artist, any fucking body that does not agree with their batshit crazy agenda. I adore you dear Contra, and most times can find my way to you somewhere in the middle. Not this time, gotta call this one bullshit.
mother that white dress is very pretty
I've uploaded a mirror of this and made it private, just so that it's ready to go the instant this video gets censored.
Contra, your videos are so creative, funny and well argued that I'm almost jealous of your talent.
It's more like the left hates speech that contradicts them mostly. You know points that are contrary to theirs.
what is with the recommendations from youtube beside this video...they are creepy as fuck
this seemed like a 30min argument from m'uh morality. That you think speech be ranked hierarchically according to value judgement you impose upon is no different from right wing zealots wanting to shut down gay pride events because it disrupts the traditional fabric of society.
Of course Racism wont disappear by itself. People WANT to believe that they are automatically better then everyone else.
Have you read Bastiat's "The Law"?  "The law is the organization of the natural right of lawful defense. It is the substitution of a common force for individual forces. And this common force is to do only what the individual forces have a natural and lawful right to do: to protect persons, liberties, and properties; to maintain the right of each, and to cause justice to reign over us all."  - Frederic Bastiat
You've unlocked a huge Pandora's Box with that MLP support.
Yass! Come through, Contra. Come all the way through!
Can I just I'm really liking hair contra it looks so good <3
Contra have you been lifting?
15:17 POUNDING IT!!
The produce pixellation is the icing on the cake
When it comes to the Free Market Place of Ideas I suggest that everyone read Thinking Fast and Slow. You're brains are lazy & aren't good at evaluating information objectively.
This seems like conflating freedom of action with freedom of speech. Your constitution has rules protecting people's rights. No one has the right to hurt someone without a just cause. As you know, free speech is protected in your constitution. Even in your anecdotes, your examples have the freedom to talk back and defend themselves. The only speech you can control is your own. You can have safe spaces and trigger warnings, but you can't force the rest of society to embrace those values simply because you view them as altruistic or the right thing to do. What seems like truth and justice to you will appear as oppression or fascism to others.
my god and/or goddess!
Love the Clockwork Orange reference!
They needed a trigger warning for extreme hilarity at 14:48 onward.  You sir are most excellent.
Riots = exercising freedom of speech hate speech = limiting freedom of speech So the "classical liberals" should realise that nothing has changed. The right still hates free speech & the left still promotes it. Actually try reading the First Amendment, people.
Was there a Patron St Obama in the background?
Man, what a bore. The first part of this video was a rerun of the previous one. You have already made all these arguments before and people have already explained to you how flawed they are. I was expecting this video to address some of that criticism, but alas, I guess it's easier to burn another straw-man instead.  "Does hosting speeches by outright bigots foster or detract from the kind of environment we want to create"  It's not about creating an "environment". It's not about "creating a home here". It's about discussing/challenging the ideas that are important to us. How else are we going to find solutions to the problems we face as a society if we don't buckle up and come together to talk about them? I don't know if you've noticed but shaming, deplataforming, and pretending you're on "the right side of history" has only exacerbated the bigotry you pretend to fight against. It's time to try something else.  "I've heard people talk about the ways safe spaces and trigger warnings can be misused, and fair enough, that's a discussion worth having.  Then have the damn discussion. Many don't have a problem with the concept of "safe spaces" and "trigger warnings" at their core. And if they refer to them as a "culture" is often as a shorthand for how often they do get misused and that goes unchallenged. Your side rarely, if ever, calls out their own. (To be fair, no side calls out their own as often as they should) But you don't do it because you see it as "punching down" or some other absurdity like that, when you should be the first ones to speak out.
I can call them nuggets, blacks, colored people, or whatever else I want. If I am forced to called them people of color by a US freedom of speech University, these is a free speech issue here.  If a human product has to be rebranded every few years, these is a problem with the product or the producer, not the consumer.
Re: Safe Spaces. I enjoy gay bars, because they're one of the few places I can go and hit on guys without worrying about getting the shit kicked out of me. And hey I even get laid sometimes, like a normal person.
Beholdingman  Sightstho Ghblindtosigns
Distribution of pokemon types in the cards means you'd never be able to get proper energy fixing except maybe for grass types. Unsubbed.
"Fascism is when you punch somebody for being a racist, and the more people you punch, the fascister it is." ~Benito Mussolini
That's one lucky cucumber
In short :"" The Left is the only one that trully defends Free Speech""  NOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO  FUCK FREE SPEECH  The only Freedom you need its the freedom to fulfill society needs, fuck you and fuck you individualism, and FUCK LIBERALSIM   The DICTATORSHIP of the Proletariat is the only viable option we have for progress, once everyone have enough education and i mean Real education, not the Capitalist indoctrination you call education, only them we will have the Material Conditions to develop something better, and by material condition i mean human beings that actually want a better society.  Contra you are not a Leftist you a Liberal, you are the Enemy.  And Ruben? Ruben is not a Liberal Ruben is a Zionist and Zionism is Fascism
well done.
Free speech like  feminists saying 97% of workplace  deaths, or 80% of suicides are male bullshit you mean ??
Reported for hate speech. Thank god liberals made this possible.
Ruben doesnt have many far left peoole on his show because they refuse to go on. I dont understand what you're trying to say. should he just stop doing his show because some people on the left wont go on. You should message him on twitter so you can go on his show.
Triangle man.  Hates Person man.
Dude is an elf without the ears! I always wondered where did I sense that vibe from. Elf mage or an elf Warlock.
Oh man, I can't wait for r/KotakuInAction to lose their shit over this by saying "b-b-b-b-b-but someone got fired for being racist once!!!"
BEHOLDINGMAN/SIGHTSTHO/GHBLINDTOSIGNS
Free the nipple, Contra!   #FreeTheNipple_(Please??)  🌞Have a great day, everyone!   🎶🎶__Kristy__🎶🎶
This has brightened my dark and dull existence. RISE, DARK MOTHER.
It's past midnight, I have work in the morning, and I find myself asking whether it's really a good idea to sit through a 17 minute Contrapoints video right this minute.  The answer is yes.
Oh my god that's such a long cucumber      where'd you get it?   asking for a friend
This was totally amazing. Great job ContraPoints. Your points are always great, but in a few of your past videos, I didn't like how you were actually kind of insensitive and made somewhat tone deaf jokes, like in the appropriation one. But this one, I would actually feel comfortable sharing with another human being. Also it's funny as fuck. Great work.
While I disagree with the sentiments towards Milo (I feel he can be a bit of a piss taker but he does also bring interesting ideas to the table) I do look at safe spaces and trigger warnings a little differently.
I haven't even started the video and Contra looks like a Sorcerer from Dark Souls.
Solid video! As usual, I don't 100% agree with everything, but thoroughly watchable.  Also: nice arms
Thank you. Your experience with safe spaces matches mine. We had a voluntary LGBT safe space program at my college, and it's simply a sanctuary. It never silenced discussion, it's just to remind people not to be a jerk. Somehow conservatives who go to church on Sunday have a hard time understanding the concept of a sanctuary.
You should debate some of the people you are opposing. Creating videos without debate will only create a echo chamber and lead to stronger confirmation bias.
You are smart, super cute and generally awesome.
Contra Points for season 10 of RuPaul's drag race
This video has two love of mine. Always Sunny being discussed and A Clockwork Orange reference. Nice job.
you have the best memes
YOU LOOK SO GOOD IN THIS VIDEO, CONTRA.
Dave Rubin just deplatformed Sam Seder for mean words. What happened to the open marketplace of ideas? FREE SPEECH!!!
@contrapoints , this hair color is pretty FUCKING great
Your arms look pretty jacked. Good for you ;-) Rubin is a faux sceptic and Hitchens was massively overrated.
Who is telling black people to toughen up? Maybe we should have the right to say niggle.... Doesn't mean we should. If that old professor was being offensive then he should be done.... They are not there to be offensive to students...
YEEEESSS 14:15 this is the second time you're saying something that I've thought about for a long time.
You have the best lighting in your apartment.
1) Dave Rubin has not ever or will ever deplatform liberals. He has an open platform that's paid for exclusively by his patrons. 2) Your Dave Rubin obsession is little more than a smear campaign designed to punish Centrist. 3) It's incredibly disingenuous for you to ignore the other players in this melodrama namely Ben Shapiro Christina Hoff Sommers, & Ayaan Hirsi Ali all of whom have seen the same level of violent protests as Milo yiannopoulos.
"Weird Vietnamese Music"  Oh dang, what a racist
14:47 Contra are you okay
And I would rather full freedom of speech... How else ARE you going to know who the arseholes are?
Nike that was a BULLSHIT analogy... They didn't want freedom... They wanted to see tits! That's not wanting freedom!!!
You're so beautiful with the red hood! You remind me of an elven mage! <3
BEHOLDING MAN SIGHTS THOUGH BLIND TO SIGNS Did I do it right?
I hope sex robots will soon replace real women
As usual, our Osiris Genderqueer is uploading art.
Where the fuck has this channel been all my life
Great video, as always
ContraPoints, you are a god damned hero.
So you start off with a slight strawman. Very very few make the argument that "freedom of speech" means freedom of absolutely everything. "Freedom of speech" (or what I'd rather refer to as a free market place of ideas) doesn't imply that your means of expression (e.g. Loud interruptions, violence etc.) shouldn't be limited.  Also many of points seems to be revolving around Milo Y and Christopher Hitchens. Plenty of people who see the left as hostile to freedom of ideas do not arse lick these people at every turn.   Also you seem to conveniently gloss over all the academics preaching about how white people are evil, all evil is due to white people, white people invented slavery, all men are rapists etc. and the like. Do I think these ideas are "hostile"? No, they're just stupid words from stupid people. If that one philosopher answered that black girl's question insensitively, then expect her to "take it" the same way that white people should be expected to "take it" when lectures tell them they're inherently evil for being white.  Also you seem to be ignoring all the black students who do not line up with or approve of safe spaces and trigger warnings. Black people are a diverse bunch with varying ideals, sensitivities and life experiences. Just like any other ethnic group. Have white people's lives all been completely fine and dandy in America? Some may disagree.  Also, as a long term sufferer of OCD and depression myself, trigger warnings are fucking stupid and detrimental to your self improvement. You should be giving yourself controlled exposure to literally "triggering" situations in order for you to be less prone to triggering in future. That is a fact.  Also I agree with the original meaning of safe-spaces, but you are ignoring the accountability of crazy lefties who lowered the threshold of what/who needs a safe-space, not just snobbish classical liberals.  And finally. I don't personally have a problem with your gender identity. But you must admit that you - as well as other "genderqueer" people (forgive me for not understanding the exact defining of the word, or if you do not identify with that term, I thought I heard you say somewhere that you did) - are an anomaly. Doesn't mean that your are a bad person or less of a human being because of it and it is bad if you are treated as such, let alone face-to-face harassment and violence. But you might wanna forgive people for seeing you - as a biological male with a low voice with brightly unnaturally coloured hair and feminine clothing - and being slightly surprised/intrigued/confused. It is not what people are used to every day. Is that there fault? Are they just bigots for not being accustomed to it?
I love you
Please make a video on the #MoreThanARefugee comment debacle.
I think the first step towards genuine artificial intelligence that genuinely benefits human beings will be better debates/exchanges between us over the internet: it'll be a long time before artificial intelligence matches our level of creativity, but what it can do better than us is cross-referencing data and finding gaps that we can fill - for example, an advanced artificial intelligence could recognise whether a debate on a topic between Blair White and Zinnia Jones would be pointless for either them both or the audiance...  and so traffic would be redirected towards what is needed based on the fallout from previous videos/comments etc...    rather than boring the fuck out of us....  y'know like just cut to the chase and have debates about nationalism vs internationism.
instagram still sounds like the name of a delivery service for illegal drugs.
What a shocker that with the freedom of speech also comes with the responsibilities of what those words create.  Great vid, Contra!  Nice call out on John Cooper.
Man i've watched A Clockwork Orange a lot.
"Free Will Was a Mistake" - God, possibly.
I'll fucking say it: the ponies WERE destroying b. fight me boiz
oooh strong intro. strong video. Contra's cinematography is rrreally developing huh!  By the way, the biggest theatre in my country is putting on Rhinoceros in late summer and I'm taking a friend and goin' cause of that good good short.
I kinda lost everything when the fruit came in. I'm not even sure what I just saw.
Rule #1 for everthing: keep the leash long enough for an appropriate amount of movement but NEVER EVER let go of it completly. If fact, get one of those retractable leashes so you can reign it in quickly when necessary.  Regarding Rubin: he appears to do all this simply because he knows that he can make a profit of it. Simply getting the most controversial people on his show and letting them just talk is currently the best click bait in existence since both their supporters and their opponents will feel inclined to watch that particular episode and since both sides will then proceed to link others of their side to the video so they can see for themselves how amazing/awful the guest in question is.  Basicly, I think Rubin spends his days lurking around forums and Twitter looking for the next hot shit while sitting on a huge pile of 1000 $ bills. Also, a true centrist would invite all sides of an argument on their show and let them discuss it while acting as a moderator.  I have to admit, I feel that often trigger warnings are missused. For example, some forum threads have them but after reading though the head posts I often times don't understand why. And it's not because I don't understand the content but rather because there really was nothing that could trigger anyone. But generally speaking I think they're a decent enough measure to keep things appropriate for people with legit traumas and even after all this time I'm still not sure why people make such an fuss about them. I honestly see hardly any difference between trigger warnings and the content labels of say the PEGI system and I've never seen anyone complain about those.  The safe space complaints are actually hilarious once you realise that every single one of the complainers are sitting in a safe space/echo chamber themselves. Didn't Trump call for a safe space for Pence once?  All of this comes of as a simply knee jerk reaction to me caused by those liberals in question finally turning into conservatives as it happens with all of them eventually. Todays liberal is tomorrows conservative simply because they want to protect their old liberal concepts and are scared of the new ones. Politcal systems, societies and cultures may not be subject to stages but political and idelogical stances are.  And your Enigma... errrrmmmm..... I don't know who the triangle man is but I know that he's stronger than Particle Man. They had a fight, Triangle wins.
Is the term "negro" really that denigrating? I'm a bit frustrated by it. A quick google search shows the United Negro College Fund is still operating, yet the girl in the anecdote acted as if the professor hurled a few n-bombs in quick succession. It certainly isn't my go to word for describing black folks (that would be black folks), but I guess I'm just not so sure of the term's position in the grand scheme of things. Why is it viewed as such a hostile insult?
Finally you made an instagram! Can't get enough contra in my life
He he he, by your own logic and definition your criticism of Dave Ruben is homophobia. So, you are now homophobic Contra? What a shame.
Everytime I watch your videos I want to replay oblivion
I liked before I even watch Obviously because I'm a biased, regressive leftist
I. Love. Your. Hair!😍
woooo boobs
You're kinda hot, in a weird way....
So I wonder if @ContraPoints saw the video by Gary Edwards criticizing his first free speech video. I did send him a message but never got any replies and I do not have twitter or anything. I was just wondering what his thoughts about the video and whatnot.
"I'm singing in the rain"  no ur in a bathtub
Man, Contra is buff as shit.
My first encounter with trigger warnings was from lurking on a pro-recovery site for people w/ eating disorders.  Often these people struggled with other mental health problems such as clinical depression.  Discussions about weight,  height,  etc were avoided for the fear of "triggering" someone into having a relapse.  Posts also contained "trigger warnings" if they discussed abuse,  disordered eating behaviors,  self injury,  etc.  because hey,  a pro-recovery community might want to prevent someone being "triggered" into a relapse.  Imagine that.
The f**king beeps were too f**king loud -.- but great video
Cucumbers are so nasty.
Daaaaaamn those arms, Contra. You are fine and I like it.
you are a fashion icon tbh
Nice to see that your last video got reinstated. Did they take off the account strike as well?
I love how you force me to think further. Thanks!
I fear I will now make violins a fetish to the point of degeneracy.
I've been following this channel for months and I still don't really get why Contra keeps doing those Satanic cutaways, anyone mind explaining this to me?
also I'm really keen on solving your enigmas but I can't get in contact with you. email and facebook messages went unanswered and I don't want to be creepy and sent multiple messages everywhere. Is it something for the patreons only or whatever?
I honestly don't get leftists who defend "the free market place of ideas". If you're not a goddamn ancap libertarian then you probably know of the issues with the free market. Same issues apply  to the free market of "speech". Those with access, reach, power and privilege retain access, reach, power and privilege.
M O T H E R   I S   H E R E
'Disinvite'? Call it what it is: _Censorship._ That is the result and that is precisely what is intended. Re-labelling censorship doesn't make it any less censorship.
Here's hoping this one doesn't vanish, because it's a great video
So are other departments, like cultural studies departments, philosophy departments with a slightly different angle?
Never listen to emotionally invested people with a drinking problem!
This strikes me as a bit pollyannaish, though I understand the strategic desire to be partisan for the left and not make this video about a left wing autocritique.  But many strands of thought in the left wing orbit genuinely do, explicitly, silence open debate of any kind.  And on the most spurious of grounds:  postulated personal experience epistemically confined to those sharing a presumptively totalizing social identities.  (Read:  people often shut down debates in the name of some ideal typical "other party" who knows better).   This has a damaging effect not simply on the (similarly ideal typical) "white liberals" and centrists and right wingers or whatever.  It also silences, say, black leftists, inasmuch as it decides a priori that all black people will agree and want to ground their claims in experience rather than aspire to universal standards of discourse and justification.  In my social space this is a much more pressing issue, but again I can see why you're talking to people outside the left here.  And it's certainly the case that right wing claims to uphold free speech are bad faith bullshit.
Very happy to see the Supreme Court side with sanity in their recent decision that hate speech is an essential part element of free speech.
I usually partially agree with you on these topics, but I think you're misrepresenting the point on this topic. dave Rubin is actually a leftist, that's why he was hired at the young Turks. he believes in affirmative action and institutional racism. if you don't believe me look up his interview with Larry Elder.He and other " classical liberals" are responding to a silencing campaign that is disprotantly applied to people on the right. calm and reasonable academics like Christiania Hoff Sommers and Charles Murray are subject to violent protests and being banned from speaking at universities while being funded by private organizations, while people like Deray McKesson can be paid tens of thousands of dollars by Yale to promote looting as a valid form of protest.
I've had videos banned from the alt-right as well. They are against free speech just as any other side. It's all about who is being offended.
Former 4chan user here. You actually nailed it on the MLP thing. /mlp/ and /pol/ are quarantine boards that were set up because everyone else got sick of seeing ponies and nazis everywhere.
do you play your own background piano music?
How are trigger warnings even against free speech? It's just a warning that basically says 'hey there's some fucked up shit ahead'
Free marketplace of ideas was a soothing concept for me when I was around 15 and haven't yet noticed how the majority of the patrons didn't much care for logic, arguments or evidence and would just pick the ideology they like best as if a neat toy.  Also, as a brony I'm kinda disappointed that those drawings were the filthiest thing you managed to fetch. I hold you on high standards, Contra.  And nice vintage Pokémon card collection there. I remember starving because I always used the lunch money for the week to buy the damn things.
Well thought out and presented.  Free speech is not as neat and clear cut as I thought. However, it is still paramount in pluralistic civilised society.
"An abstract value like freedom is always invoked in particular circumstances: it's always imagined as the freedom of specific people to do specific things without the constraint of specific regulations" - Damn, that is good stuff! And that whole thing about minority groups needing safe spaces, too! I would snort that, if I could!  And, for those who think that stuff like trigger warnings aren't necessary, let me tell you of some experiences I've had with a friend of mine. She and I met in university and, because we were often the only mentally ill/neuroatypical people in the course, we often wound up being partners in projects and group exercises, etc. I would eventually discover that she had be severely physically and emotionally abused through her childhood to the point where she had such severe PTSD that even talking about abuse could trigger a dis-associative episode and put her right back into those horrific scenes from her childhood. Now, you'd be very surprised with how much the topic of abuse comes up in university English courses or how much a professor can do which mimics abuse, I witnessed several instances of a professor talking in a threatening matter or throwing a piece of chalk across the room or a book which we were discussing which triggered one of her episodes and never once was any trigger warning given to warn us about what we were about to discuss or any considering for what she'd been through. University being a safe space, indeed. Granted, she wasn't necessarily the most pro-active about her PTSD, I don't think she liked to acknowledge it most of the time, but there was still never any consideration or any precaution in place to stop her from having episodes or to help her when she was having one. She even had one right beside me once in the middle of class, suddenly saying how she didn't know where she was and that she was scared, and I had no idea how to help her, though I tried to keep her as calm as I could. And she never wanted to have these episodes because they were never fun for her and only made it harder for her to heal from the trauma she had survived. So, sometimes, trigger warnings are actually very, very important. I have my own issues with triggers related to compulsive thoughts and anxiety so I know just how important trigger warnings and, also being gay, I know how wonderful it feels to find a safe space where I'm accepted and I don't have to worry about defending myself or justifying my experiences. So, next time you hear about safe spaces or trigger warnings and think how ridiculous or overused they are, remember that maybe, just maybe, they aren't for you because, when people like her or my friend hear you complain about them, it sounds to us like you're going into a different-abled staff in a washroom and complaining about how short the toilet is.
that clockwork oragen reference, always on point contra <3
Ah, Vaporeon, the best eeveelution.  Good on ya'.
Luminiferous aether , that burning flame , a symbol to shine when darkness encroaches , all things blacken and can never shine from it  ,  truth is found
John Cooper you dingus
this is beautiful
Fucking hell are those 1st gen pokemon cards? Did you just head out into the wild and farm people in their early thirties like some kind of twisted MMO grinder?
You use Milo as an example of campus banning but real conservatives like Ben Shapiro have also been banned. Stop being so intellectually dishonest.
A ContraPoints video?! Dark Mother sure has blessed us!!!
I finally don´t feel triggered by watching you doing things to meat or octopuses! Pineapple or cucumber is much better.
Great!
A new Contrapoints video, I'm crying tears of joy.
Everyone supports restricting speech in some ways. Speech is prima facie justifiably restricted in cases of public security, sedition, classified information, threat, criminal conspiracy, incitement, fraud, perjury, fighting words, harassment, mobbing, hate speech, libel, slander, right to privacy, public order, public nuisance, obscenity, pornography, copyright violation, etc. There are higher values than free speech, or negative liberty in general, we all obviously think so. So, being that we all think that it's ok to restrict speech in various cases, the blanket argument "but it violates free speech" is not actually an argument, you need to give a concrete argument, eg if you think hate speech should be allowed, you need to argument why hate speech is so important, why is spreading bigotry more important than not having a society plagued by bigots. Good luck with that.
VITALITY IS THE MILK OF THE WOLF
i like
Can you please do a makeup tutorial? You always look so amazing! <3
I'm honestly surprised that episode of "It's Always Sunny in Philadelphia" hasn't been discussed when talking about freedom and how it can loophole itself. You did another excellent video Contra!
you are getting quite built contra
right now I have to go find my pokemon cards, hope you're happy countra
Milo is fucking awesome  Praise Kek
you keep saying "out right bigots" who do you classify as s bigot. This is my problem with progressives, people like Brett Winestien, CH Sommers people who were demanded to be not allowed on campus. or they needed to be fired.
for what i have seen, TW:s and CW:s are not NSFW-markers, as you say in your video. TW:s are warnings to people who have undergone trauma, and certain things, such as depictions of rape, may trigger an anxiety attack.
SHE👏WENT👏OFF👏
You look so good in this video. Max pretty
tbh one of my favorite parts of watching Contra's videos is to see how the art style has evolved.
Maybe professors don't use the phrase "trigger warning" exactly, but when I was in college between 2002-2006, I had professors say things like "we'll be talking about sex crimes today. I know that's a rough subject for some people so if you need to, you're welcome to step out at any time. I won't ask why." Or, "just to let you know, these pictures are pretty graphic."   It's just basic courtesy, as you said.
Fun fact: Dave "Defender of Freedom" Rubin recently threatened someone with a libel suit because they called him a bad name.
14:50 Are you intentionally trying to get this flagged?
A friend of mine on a message board I frequent made a point a month or so ago that really stuck with me. His point was that there's a difference between what safe spaces actually are and what "free speech advocates" think they are, and that the latter already has a name of its own - an _echo chamber._  And he further argued that you can have a safe space, where you're not _personally attacked_ for your beliefs or viewpoints, without it becoming a full-blown echo chamber, where you just hear what you want to hear (and disregard the rest [SIMON & GARFUNKEL REFERENCE LOL]).  I know, "no fucking shit", right? But it was refreshing to hear that someone saying that out in the wild of the internet, and I guess that's why it really stuck with me.
Mac and Dennis should have stuck to their principles rather than calling the cops. (They also should have had better principles in the first place.) That episode seems racist and statist judging by this description.
AHW DIS GUN BE GOOD. MY BODY IS READY.
Good stuff! I have been thinking of starting a blog but you keeps stealing my thunder. Truthfully, you are much more thorough and you do it with such wit.
thinking about the significance of the pokemon card segment, the order they were pulled and the ones that were face down has me all kinds of fucked up
Contra, will you be my boyfriend?
At the end of the day, I'm pretty sure a lot of rightwingers know that the facts are not on their side on major issues. So when you know that, it's kind of comforting to be able to answer things like "Your belief is demonstrably false" with things like "Excuse me sir, you saying that is an attack on my free speech right to say what I said, you are anti-american"
Dat Foil Fossil Set Lapras.
Contra, Hbomberguy, Zinnia Jones etc are creating some of the best intellectual commentary on youtube right now. Thanks for this video.
i like this good vid
like this video before a bigoted anti-sjw flags this video in the name of free speech!
Superb as always, you are really taking YT political vids. to the next level.
seriously starting to believe this is an ASMR channel. but your last point especially was very poignant. thank you for this series.
We took a bath together!
Great video, I liked the explanation of the misconception over what safe spaces are.
A new ContraPoints video. Be still my beating heart.
17:08 the first letter of each of the pokemon spells:  BEHOLDINGMAN  🤔🤔🤔🤔🤔🤔🤔🤔🤔🤔
Contra stands for us Bronies. I have shed manly tears at this moment.
She stood up for bronies when no one else would.
Dave Rubin accused Mother Jones Magazine of committing libel for calling him 'Far Right'... So much for the free and open marketplace of ideas.
Food alright?
you did good
I think Contra misses the point. The argument isn't that we want no rules, but rather that the left does not apply the standards they preach consistently across all groups.
Thank you for touching on what actual triggers are. It's pretty messed up when I find myself worried about telling people that I need to take space and calm down because my PTSD was triggered considering I've always been open about my mental illness. And to those constantly pretending no one in therapy needs trigger warnings - that's not what therapist told me for 12 years of it, that's just not how it works.
was the cucumber part scripted or was it just improv? because it really felt like improv hahaha.
YES!!!
08:09 i c what you did there
Well, better watch before the sensitive fascist types take it down.
"Trigger warnings" have been around on television for ages as "view discretion is advised" bits. As per usual, the right simply re-branded something totally normal and reasonable, hyperbolized it, and then started shouting it at the left as if it were a disgusting term and they should be ashamed it even exists.  I guess deliberate misappropriation in the name of shaming people is one way to use your free speech.
okay, we seriously need some contrapoints style merch, i desperately need a shirt with "dark mother" inscribed on it
Please do a video on Ben Shapiro.
"Leftists"... Just fucking embrace the imortal science of dialectical materlamism already.
4chan's gone to shit. People there don't realize these days that the "racism" and "sexism" was actually fucking ironic because literally everyone there was treated with equal "hate"
The reason we need people like David Rubin (and you, btw) is so maybe we can have a real conversation about these issues without all the straw men. For example, safe spaces are a long and honored tradition that in practice long predate LGBT activism: all people need a comfortable place to be themselves with others who understand them. The debate is over who is on the hook to provide that space. Safe spaces and trigger warnings are contentious because people with agendas are deliberately trying to expand their definitions (left and right) to make straw men they can annihilate.    It's true that everyone takes a moral stance: there is no "true neutral" in that regard. But truth (how things work, and models of reality can predict) can still be largely separated from moral stances. Likewise, you shouldn't invite a speaker that won't further a dialogue, or lend resources to them - you just shouldn't prevent other people from doing it. When you create a space, and own it, you're responsible for the atmosphere and the rules.  The argument that "the left hates free speech" is really the argument that "the left thinks they own the space" - universities, mainstream media, and what have you. Do you think everyone on the right is an evangelical Christian who hates LGBT people or wants to push soft racism?   That's the kind of "neutral" Dave Rubin is: he's a closet libertarian who's making allies with people who are more socially right wing because we apparently have two sides rather than four, and the left has swung north a bit from liberty to authoritarianism. His commitments to liberty outweigh his commitments to the left's idea of what social justice entails, and he's justifying his position by discovering that the right is on board with a "colorblind" definition of anti-racism (and anti-sexism) that the left is not merely opposed to, but mis-representing for political points. That has led him into dialog with some slimy characters like Milo, which seems inevitable to me.  "True neutral", ideologically, is served by representing positions honestly and starting the dialog from there. Rubin claims the left isn't interested, and in that, he's right. Not that he's perfect, obviously, but we all do the best we can with what we have.
you substituted the cruel animal based props for more ethical fruit and veg. excellent! more of this please :)
Is your insect killer is a subliminal micro-aggression? At least you hang your TP correctly you freaky fruit [beep].
"Microaggression" is still a really cringy term and concept to me.
No! I love you Contra, but the redeeming value of Milo - for all his nihilistic faults - is that through his schtick he's showing the absurd and blatant hypocrisy of institutions like universities who pride themselves on their inclusivity, freedom of thought/speech, tolerance, etc. while not admitting that they are the power structure in those institutions, who do discriminate (rightly or wrongly) against people and ideas - all the while claiming the mantle of equality and inclusivity. I"m at 5:08 so I'll keep watching to see if you address this.
Nice clockwork orange reference.
Not a fan of his but Milo doesn't spend his entire time trolling.
Hi ContraPoints, can I ask a quick question? What's your take on the seeming alliance between the progressive left and Islam? I know a lot of people just want a decent treatment of the muslim refugees (and other muslim as well), but when you get people like Linda Sansour it starts to look really wierd. Shadilay.
Contra, I really like your videos! You really explain your points and I can see where you're coming from, you've definitely have swayed me in some ways. You're also hilarious! But... seeing you in that white dress looking cute, but at the same time having your muscular arms enhanced in such lighting has left me sexually confused.    There are tingles. Send help?
Thank you for calling out Cooper! I was in Academic philosophy and can testify to his shit-for-brains approach to other people.
Snowflake Dave Rubin wont even have Sam Seder on his show, doubt he'll invite you one. Sad!
love the video, small critique!  what kinda Pokemon deck is that? all those different types and no energy cards? :(
ily
So you agree that some people have taken this principles too far? This was more reasonable than I expected.
2:30 Can't believe you showed your tiddys for E-buxXx. Can't believe people fund this moral degeneracy, smh (Starts giving money to Contra's Patreon).
there s no such thing as gender
Why respect them by calling them "classical liberals"? They're conservatives.
Stop destroying the produce CP,  you know there are  starving kids in Africa! Every time you smash some vegetable in to the floor they get hungrier!
My body was not ready......
Ok, genuinely can someone point me to a video or something of how I can do eyeshadow like Contra had here. I'm not sure what it is, but this really struck me.
I need to know how you make your hair so shiny. It's vital for my activism work
Censorship isn't coming back. Stop trying and move on already.
I want a video series of someone explaining all the enigmas to me.
The thing about rules on 4chan is that they are, at best, selectively enforced and shit like the rule against racism aren't enforced at all in practice. Hell, the pony rule is probably the most strictly enforced rule on the website.
oh i've been ready for this!
One of the Gymnopedie that isn't the first one. :3
I'm really curious if there are any right-wingers who have any evidence for the claim that safe spaces and trigger warnings harm free speech, or if it is, as I suspect, just a silencing rhetorical tactic.
That is a huuuuuge cucumber.
Been looking forward to this since part 1 went up. You have not disappointed me. :)
You're a fucking weirdo.    I like that.
Contra's muscles....make me feel things.....
Safe spaces are voluntary associations.  So unless "classical liberals" are somehow against freedom of association, they need to come up with better arguments for how they somehow limit free speech.  The whole reason certain social groups want safe spaces in the first place is they _already_ encounter views they disagree with all the time – views which basically declare "you people shouldn't exist" – and just want a fricken break from it all.
Gahhh that part of the black girl running out of the classroom after her professor liberally used the N word hits a Lil too close too home. People really underestimate how black people and people of color in general can feel very unwelcomed in academic spaces because of shit like that. I remember being 14 and being super excited that I got to go to this summer arts class one of these old historic college campuses. Of course there weren't many black kids there but I didn't let that bother me. The problems started rolling in when these white kids kept bothering me about my hair, making me feel like some sort of animal. When the teachers would be "ironic" race jokes that I felt that I couldn't call out. In fact one of them made me feel like an asshole because I didn't think it was funny ( and I know funny. He wasnt it). There was a play we all went to where they of course cast one of the only other black people on the campus ( who happened to be a woman) in this over the top "ghetto" role where she was just played up for laughs and having all these white people laugh at her was just...degrading. What really broke the camels back was being jokily referred to as a "Negroe"  by one of these edgelord white boys and I just froze. I couldn't believe he actually said that outloud but I guess there's a first time for everything. Plus I lived in South Carolina at the time so I guess it was gonna happen sooner or later. I guess moral of the story is don't be a racist asshole even "ironically" because you're not as funny as you think you are.
This. Person. Is. Awesome. I love you and I love your videos. Please keep it up. Much love!
I wish I had your video or speaking skills, because I've had the same exact view on online Internet commentary but do not have the skills to convey it the way you do
freedom ain't not free
Just as there seems to be a disconnect between a bar hosting girls wishing to go topless and rules which ban milk -- I played it twice, that's what he said -- so there is no connection between the supposed respect for controversial opinion and banning M. Yiannopoulos.  Even more ridiculous, the speaker says that banning Mr Yiannopoulos will, in some magical way, enhance the discussion between leftists and "good-faith conservatives" -- as if virtually all conservatives have not lined up, predictably, in damning the banning.  Yiannopoulos wound up suggesting child sexual activity was something he recommended, and, consequently, lost any support.  That wasn't why the Student Union at U.C. Berkeley was burned, which preceded his ousting from an Internet forum.  It was because he had espoused unpopular political views.  On the other hand, the speaker does indeed make the valid point that free speech boundaries, in every definite venue, are to be negotiated.
beholding many sights though blind to signs
Contra civics course is so needed atm!
Really good video contra, best so far!
It seems the first letter of each Pokémon card spells out:  Beholdingman sightstho ghbtindtosigns
Part 2?...this calls for a beer.
so much yes
I like this video much more than Part 1, rather than going after a single man I find you do a much better job at explaining a concept and defending the need for regulations in most places.
The only thing this is missing is an obligatory Sun Tzu quote. Apart from that this dope.
9 mins in...I have problems with this video
that ending with all the beeps was golden.
nice sixpack
I don't care that much about TWs or CWs, but you have to admit that they are now being used superfluously in many parts of Leftbook and tag groups: I've legit seen trigger warnings used in a serious context for "food", "omurice", and "Eddie Murphy" before. It's not hindering free speech, it's just become a little annoying. What's equally annoying is not being able to be upset by content that's genuinely distrubing to you on a personal level because people with mental illnesses and intellectual disorders have been so vindicated by the use of the "TRIGGERED" meme for the past year.
@9:10   dayum! have you been working out?
The Always Sunny comparasion is very flawed. Max and Dennis didn't want freedom, they wanted girls showing their boobs, the only people truly affected in that whole situation was them. The vietnamites, the degenerates, and the girls in the bar were just fine, each one in their corner. This is a horrible analogy for society: people's freedom shouldn't be regulated so the owners of the place (the government) get to turn the bar (the country) on what they want, and not what the costumers (the people) want. Contra misses the point, Max and Dennis are just as wrong as everyone else in that episode because Always Sunny never had a moral to it, all characters are horrible people who only thinks about themselves.
Can you please make shirts that say "Dark Mother" underneath a picture of Anita Sarkeesian so that I can have a new and interesting way to throw money at you?
Your videos and channels with videos like your have helped open my mind a lot, seeing other sides and more consistent logic to things rather than right wingers spouting "Oh I can't say derogatory words that dehumanize people? WHERE'S MY FREE SPEECH?". This was probably my favorite video of yours yet and I hope it helps other people see where others are coming from.
Great video Contra and please, blow me a kiss!
You thinkquisitor you
How much produce do you go through when  your  in your safe space?
Take me now
Teachers are terrible people in the first place. When you said his name is John Cooper and he wrote a book, it just sealed the deal. WHAT ARE TEACHERS HIDING? WHY DO THEY HAVE A DESIRE TO TELL PEOPLE WHAT TO DO? Oh, and good video.
Your analysis has a level of nuance which I barely ever see in vegetable porn. Also I always appreciate a good Clockwork Orange reference
"should we allow posts about my little pony" asking the tough questions
I get triggered by dumb trigger warnings. For every itching trigger waring real things that need them get eroded . I've never been raped, but I can imigian that if I was I might not want to watch rape (or maybe I'd really want to I had the girlfriend once who was and did idk). It erodes real triggers of panic attacks and makes people think your a special snowflake if you say your having one. Like I want to believe you 13 year old on tumbler, I do, I just don't think that a potato chip will trigger a panic attack due to your self diagnosed anxiety order. but Also, yo, can we fuck? I'm not very handsome and don't really know how to have sex well but yo hit me up.
I hit Like so fast I don't even remember doing it
Holy shit Cooper! I've got that book and oh shiiiiit!
LOL, Nice homage to A Clockwork Orange
YOU HAVE BEEN CONSUMED BY THE DARK MOTHER. HER SEED IS IN YOU NOW.  Seriously though Contra, I feel like you're deliberately taking inspiration from Anita on your look and cadence at this point, and even the style of oration in some places.
I think I love you. It sucks, because I want to believe I agree with you on actual substantial points, but the love is overpowering.
BEHOLDING MANY SIGHTS THOUGH BLIND TO SIGNS
Long "o" in Yost (like post or toast) @16:23, but I appreciate the shout out.  This is more for me to think about, for sure.
We are either tyrants or goofballs to them. Because they just want to troll.
God I love you...can you please do an unscripted vid once or week or something so we can have more vids more often?!!
I love you. And I want to buy the triggered T-shirt. capitalism. Yay.
You like  Always Sunny, I like you, let's get married.
omg staryu was my first pokemon card. the way it turned up on the top of the pile @ the end is clearly fate.
Have you considered going on David Rubin's show? He says no SJWs want to go on his show, and I think you're probably one of the best voices for the "SJWs" on YouTube at the moment. I do really like Dave's show, but I do wish he had more discussions with SJWs.
Love the purple 💜 We both have purple hair right now! 😊
I'm both relieved and disappointed that i get to not know what Contra likes and what feels good to him.
"The 21st century's first great work of political philosophy is "Charlie Goes America All Over Everybody's Ass", season 2 episode 9 of It's Always Sunny in Philadelphia" Good heavens I love you, Contra.
Me: hello I would like to exist please thanks  Far Right: no  Liberals: WHAU discourse is pretty toxic on both sides eh?
This video is great and all But I'm mostly super stoked about your choker it's lovely
You censor your nipples now? Unsubbed. Unliked. Unviewed.
Very impressive video!  Thanks!
We need a Contrapoints Wikipedia to keep up with all the enigmas. I don't think the second one was ever solved yet.
beholding man sightstho ghblindtosigns
You are brilliant. Thank you for making these videos, which I'm sure take a lot of time, effort, and resources.
Who was your teacher who studied under Wittgenstein?
free speech is a fundamentally liberal idea. its just leftist authoritarians vs libertarian leftists.
I gotta start solving those riddles
This the best sequel since the Emipre Strikes back.!
A new Contrapoints video on my birthday, this is fantastic :)
I don't think it was your intention, but when you say that "Milo was never successfully silenced" it could imply that the protests were unsuccessful when they weren't. I know you know about Berkeley, so I don't think you meant that, but it's unclear, at least to me, what you did mean.  Also, your hair looks amazing.
OH MY GOD THAT WAS ONE OF YOUR BEST VIDEOS EVER....Although I disagreed with some parts of your previous video,I'm really glad you cleared things up and explained everything so perfectly in this one....plus you look cute af :) and I really like your new hair <3 oh and that klimt painting in the background was really cool!
Can someone explain the ending to me?
Enigma Three: "Beholding many sights though blind to signs"  THE PUZZLE SO FAR:  Sleepers awake eternal daylight shines Not from the sun but from a billion souls Beholding many sights though blind to signs    I took the first letter of each of the Pokemon's names, expecting that to spell out a word, using the backs of cards as 'spaces.' This came up with: "BEHOLDINGMAN SIGHTSTHO G(H, the card is Japanese for Hitmonlee)(B, the card is Japanese for Bulbasaur)(T or L depending on if you take the name 'TRAINER' or the name 'LASS')INDTOSIGNS" Some words do come out from this, enough that I feel comfortable saying it isn't by chance, but there is still some seemingly random text mixed in so this could all be random. The word "Beholding" shows up, the word "Man" directly after, then a space leads to the word "Sights," then some random letters (thoghb[t or l]ind) and then the word "to" followed by "signs," which makes "Beholding man sights to signs," albeit with some random letters mixed in. If you have any ideas on how to expand on this, or if this is just an accident and completely wrong, comment.  EDIT: "Beholding man sights though blind to signs" is what comes out, as pointed out by Sabrina Szigeti.  EDIT 2: "Beholding many sights though blind to signs," which was pointed out by bobrm2k3, because the face down cards are most likely blanks to be filled in for ones that Contra didn't have Pokemon cards that started with those letters (Pokemon starting with 'Y' are hard to come by)
Yay!!!
vape.wav for the win!
What you're essentially putting the finger on, is that the top of any power structure defines what kind of speech is acceptable. In a classroom, it's the teacher. In a government organization it's the President or some other elected body.  And I agree with you. What I don't agree with however, is that every single person who for whatever reason, be it racial category, ethnic, sexual or gender, should be shielded from the demands of the dominant culture and be given special privilege specifically because they are not a part of the dominant culture.  I also challenge you to come up with a society that has existed where this potentially negative marginalization in speech has even come close to being as good and as utilitarian it is in the West. Do you think the Chinese care when they call a white ex-pat the pejorative "white ghost" on a subway? No they don't. Do you think the white ex-pat should demand that the entirety of Chinese culture and the dominant group of Han Chinese should change their xenophobic rhetoric and become truly tolerant and multicultural?   I don't think you do. And I don't think I want to live in a society where saying the word 'Negro' in an academic setting should warrant censure by a mob of pot-smoking and ideologically messianic teenagers either.
D A R K  M O T H E R
Hopefully this video doesn't get shot down immediately by fucking hypocrites.
Hurray!
'' I don't have faith that having good facts and arguments on my side will be enough ''   Thats why they must be murdered I'm afraid.
love the hair. love the white dress.
I hit dislike because I hate good arguments
Best part of this video: A Gymnopedie that isn't No. 2.
STOP. MAKING. ME. QUESTION. MY. SEXUALITY! Also great video once again.
Good vid
YEsssssss, I have been waiting! Thank you!
I hope that you do get invited to Rubin's show. Good luck.
@ContraPoints Was the intro was inspired by The Holy Mountain?
charlie goes america over everybody's asses SHOULD be taught in schools i agree.
thanks for making this Contra!
Thank you for the ending, I know what I'll be doing tonight.
Hey good shit
People don't like idea of trigger warning, but never complained about content warning
The only people who thinks 4chan is a den of freedom are the ones who never went to the place. 4chan habe been just as bad as tumblr for years now.
Beautiful, sexy and intelligent. Is there anything you are  not good at?    Pip pip
Dat waist
Actually it sucks to be among the first to comment, I like to read the comments, this is a good forum with very intelligent people.
i swear i like contra for her brains *sweats*
I love zucchini-fingering.
Better watch, like, and comment before the freeze peach warriors run in and CENSOR CONTRAPOINT'S VALID AND INFORMED OPINION like the RATIONAL FREE THINKERS THEY ARE.
Why do some people like frozen peaches so much? They should try frozen bananas. I tried some myself, they're very tasty.
Also, thank you for explaining the origins of Safe Spaces. Growing up, many classrooms in my middle and high schools had small, yellow LGBT+ safe space stickers in their windows. I know that not everyone was lucky enough to attend a school with a serious stance against homophobia/transphobia/biphobia/etc but I was still astonished by how confused some people online are about the concept.
I do hate me some freeze peach
Wow that opening...
Um, you talk about Always Sunny at the beginning of this.  Best. Video. Ever.
Does this mean you should censor opinions you disagree with? Is anybody who's against Black Lives Matters is racist?  And seriously. Colleges and Universities are government owned. Some are. They have no right to censor people. So if Milo whatever his name is wants to go to a university like Memorial Univsersity of Newfoundland and spout his shit, nobody can censor him. You can only ignore him or speak out against him.  And how the hell can you sympathise with riots?!?!  Holy fucking shit! 
I know you had more in this video but I do not mind Milo when he is serous and not throwing memes around.
what do you mean 4chan is a place of total anarchy? that trash website? stop.
Downloading this video... just in case.
Your channel is awesome.
So any bets on how long its gonna take for the false flaggers to get to this?
Have you painted that yourself? Looks a bit like Egon Schieles work :D
I love you Contra! You are the liberal of my dreams!
Within the 4 minutes of this I see the fatal flaw in your argument.
Thank you! This is the motivation for me to get up and go get something to eat finally, so I can sit down and watch it while stuffing my face.
17+ minutes of Contra? With purple hair? HELLS YES
Someone looks good
Hi I'm Naked Ape. I literally have no soul. I am a walking sod bucket incarnate.
Already excited.  Only 18 seconds in.
your make up is so soft. I love it
your hair is looking really sleek! c'mon femme aesthetic.
You should make a Contrapoints movie
Can you marry me please Contra? You say you're not into men but I'm pretty girly.
OH HELL YES.
M O T H E R  H A S  A R R I V E D
Firrssstttiiieee    I didn't think I would say that.
Liberals: I hate fascism and racism!!  Racists: FREE SPEECH!!!!  Liberals: Oh darn, ya got me
INB4 /pol users take this down!
Oh yes daddy!
CLICKS IMMEDIATELY
Thank fucking god
Instant like.
I love you contrapoints
First!
Aren't trans and genderqueer totally different things? For me I always viewed myself as female (I'm a cis female) but I was pretty butch etc. I used to get pissed off if people called me sir by accident. Now I don't care as I kind of view myself as both male AND female, depending on what I wear. I can easily pass as a female if I wear tighter clothes, and pass as a male if I wear baggy clothes. Apparently even with my girly voice I can still pass as a guy lol. That's what genderqueer is, isn't it? Not relating to either gender, or feeling like you're both? Trans is when you're born in the wrong body
You're a fucking inspiration. Thank you, Natalie.
Well. I can only say you are pretty amazing.  F#@k what others think. Be you, whatever that amounts to. Everyone's journey is  different,  and you have a right to live it. Easy or hard, be who you are. And yes I like you, as the human being you are. I like your voice, look, everything.  Or change it all later, who cares. Of course I am highly  sapiosexual, so none of that really matters for the most part. I think it would be amazing to hang out with you. I don't  have any real helpful suggestions,  except,  you do you. Seems like you are on your way to figuring it  all out. Take your time,  you are already amazing,  and I don't  see that changing because of clothes,  gender identity, sexuality, sex, or anything else. IT IS ALL A SPECTRUM.  And guess what? You are somewhere in there. No hurry to figure out  exactly  where.  ❤
"Honestly, I'm just not that inspiring of a person, so stop being inspired!"  Natalie's entire relationship with her fanbase in a nutshell
You are a good actress!!!
Transgender isn't a thing they are things
Your either male or female not both sorry facts don't care about your feelings
There are only two genders: Censored Nipples Uncensored Nipples
Thanks for helping me further understand my gender. I’m a female androgyne who identifies with both genders.
Did i only looked at that creepy doll?
Love you and your channel, your intelligent, accurate, some times sarcastic and humorous approach if perfect wish I met someone like you long ago. Every bible cultist should be required to watch your channel, they would either get a better understanding or their heads would explode, either result would be acceptable. But among the religious deniers of our existence they do practice mind control as soon as their poor children are capable of speech and they don't want us back in the closet they want us gone...
oh god when that hunter avallone video popped up i literally had war flashbacks
Holy shit!!! I loved this!  I live in northern Utah, and even HOMOSEXUALITY is still a sensitive fucking topic here.  (the massive Mormon population keeps this place about 30 years behind the rest of the US) I'm learning a lot from watching your videos and they are all super funny, too.  Love it <3
It's sad really. Clearly you didn't have gender dysphoria, you just created a persona that you fancied and went with it. Cudos for that. People can be happy doing drag, impersonations of the other gender and stuff. Why go ahead and transition though? Why identify yourself fully with a persona? I liked you better as a man, you were much more original, you even said yourself that you liked some of your male characteristics. I can't get how gender is on one hand a spectrum and something that doesn't really matters and one shouldn't be boxed based on his sex and how on the other hand trans people choose to be boxed into so stereotypical expressions of gender especially when one shows little to no gender dysphoria.
Who are the girls from 0:45? I know I've seen them, but i can't recall who are they
I did like this voice, but I like your new voice too
Isn’t everything in our reality just a bunch of made up nonsense?
I cant believe I just found you, these are the most insightful, intelligent and humorous explanations or conversations we do but probably shouldn't need to have. Evolving is so hard.
"Honestly, I'm just not that inspiring of a person" Oh Nataly, how you've grown...
did y'all notice the trans flag lighting???????
Really loving the transflag-lighting in the background 💗
6:23 Too late. Can't help it.
That doll in the background is terrifying. It stares into my soul, even though it exists in the past.
Why is doctor playing with food? Has he no shame? h3h3   p.s why do you care why people think, you be you <3 like your humor = unique and stoic
tbh i dont know about my own gender because ive noticed that when i hear “he" referring to others, i definitley see that as a masculine identity but when its used in reference to me, i dont see that as gendered. I kinda dont see myself as a man or a woman maybe somewhere in the middle leaning towards male but who the fuck knows.
In Chinese 他 means he and 她 means she. They are pronounced exactly the same “ta” but are clearly different words.
New subscriber!
Thanks for explaining what i am going through
Omg this is the closest thing I’ve ever found to myself ever thank you soooooo much
simplemente te amo sos Genial, gracias por aclarar tantas cosa y decirlas de una forma tan sencilla y con tanto buen humor algo que es muy complicado de sintetizar.
"I am genderqueer" Me, 2 years later, watching this video for the first time: bitch no u isnt
You actually look pretty nice!
In a world of pure imagination
That doll though😱😱
That doll behind the door just watching is spooky!
I'm trying to figure out what I am. I am a gay male, but also genderqueer.  I'm trying to get all the info I can get to learn as much as I can. I have the feeling just need some help expressing it.
me a few months ago: everyone has these feelings, nonbinary people are just faking for attention! me now: apparently not everyone has these feelings and i'm nonbinary
I really like you and I like your videos.
amen
Maybe I’m a really feminine trans guy..I think that’s it.
Just, thank you ! <3
Amazing to come back 2 years later and compare to your “Transtrender” video. Thanks for making consistently great content!
This is hilarious and smart! I love both the old videos and the new ones. We need more people like Natalie on Youtube.
I know this is an older video & you've come a long way since making it but I wanted you to know your videos on this subject(which you've been incredibly generous & courageous to share) have helped me understand/support a family member who is going through their own transition as well as just be more educated in general about gender identity. Thank you.
however did you get such a feminized voice from the day you made this video to the day i am writing this post/question?
that doll in the background is staring into my soul
I too pay my scotch
I think I will stick to only remembering the genders of the ppl around me. I don’t have the energy to learn of genders of ppl I don’t even know.
I'm an American living in South Africa for the past few years, in a primarily IsiZulu-speaking area. Pronouns and pronoun prefixes in IsiZulu are gender neutral, so when most Zulu people I know speak English they often misgender people (even if they're fluent). So yeah, that's a thing. I don't really know my point here, but I just think sticking to a hardline binary with regards to gendered pronouns as if that kind of language is the symbolic protector of some sacred truth about the nature of people is... silly. Using gender neutral pronouns really shouldn't be a big deal, even if it will take getting used to.
Thanks so much for this. I've been trying to grapple with the they/she political thing and this has helped me a lot. >3
Just because you can alter a male's body with hormones and surgery to make it look more like the body of a female, that doesn't mean he's a female. The changes are cosmetic. Trans women are male and always will be, trans men are female and always will be. There is no trans woman that can create her own egg cells or grow her own uterus, just like trans men don't have their own testes and can't make sperm. IT'S ALL COSMETIC. That's fine, but trans women are not women and should stop claiming they are. Just because there are actual women who have health issues resulting in infertility that doesn't take away from the definition of female or woman.
oh no, it's jaclyn n shoe!!!!!!!
What are the differences between bigender and gender fluid? Every time I google it the definitions seem the same to me. 4 years of sociology, and it still confuses me
Love your channel I cannot believe that freaking youtube unsubscribed me already!  I just subscribed to your channel yesterday!  Just wanted you to know beware of your subscription numbers they are probably not accurate.
my dudette you don't know how easy you have made it for me to come out as genderqueer best part was: everyone that mattered fucking loved it   rock on degenerate scum
I f***ing love this self-respect s*** goddam
Polygender/Pangender?
Damn ya look good
fauve
I tried to pay attention, but that doll in the back was on my way... (;;;・_・)
"Am I a trans woman? Well, that's a good question." *SpongeBob narrator voice* Two years later...
I am offended by how you treated the hotdogs since i identify as a sausage.
Can we be trigender?
❤️
Nah.
"stop being inspired" NO!
So I, as an agender person, am really curious about whether your thoughts on non-binary people have changed now that you’ve gone the way of the binary. You’re not the first person I’ve seen who had a non-binary identity before going Full Binary, so I’d like to know what your thoughts on that are... I’m not saying this is your fault, but every time I see someone who called themselves non-binary walk it back, I get nervous about not having “picked one” myself after... [counts on fingers] oh gosh, almost six years. (The blogger whose articles almost-singlehandedly guided me through the early days of my Journey of Genderlessness did later come out as a binary trans man, and that fucked me up a little, ngl.) Hopefully I’ll get to see an “update” of this video from you someday!
I love this of being able to use all kinds of pronouns for you. It´d be wonderfull if things could be like this for all people.
ready when u r CP
🥚
I just wanted to know if your a girl or boy
phases are under rated, just because you are no longer a child doesn't mean you were never "really" a child, same with phases of gender or sexuality. but i wish this phase had lasted. there are so few visible non binary people. i guess her list of excuses not to transition implies the queer life was never really for her. i can't begrudge her now being a woman, but lately she mocks non binary people to appeal to the alt right, to convince them of... it's often pretty foggy what her goal is.
“What are these Pokémon” Gotta collect them   MAyBe i gOddAm wiLl
If I ever met Natalie I'd blurt out, "Marry me?", and then cry from embarrassment and curl into the fetal position until she walked away.
0:50 I'm sorry, you're judging people while you still have raccoon eyeliner from 2008?
Disgusting
Personally, I think the Romance languages are a lot more gendered then the English language.
The definition of genderqueer: A word made up by people who believe they can create whatever gender they want as a means to gain attention and attempt to become a somebody in life.   You are welcome :)
Good Job.
the egg hatched :3
“What has this channel come to? I’m talking about my feelings like a fucking queer”   🤣😂🤣😂🤣😂🤣
Why is that doll peaking from the corner staring into my soul....
lol all the people you put in the beginning are people I watch regularly and enjoy
Everytime I have this explained to me, I get more confused...thanks for trying, though, sir'am. Sirm? Ma'am/sir.
Thanks for this video. You’re super articulate about this subject and your personal place within it. Thank you for your very honest and humble (no joke) approach!
Awesome video!
whoa
You say that English forces people to choose between pronouns. Indeed, but at least it's not like French (and others): we don't have the neutral "the" or "a(n)", and hence tons of words must be gendered one way or the other. That means for example that "the workers" (les travailleurs)  doesn't include women  unless we add the same word but with the gendered ending (les travailleuses). According to the rules, the masculine form prevails which means that "les travailleurs", unless you're specifically talking about dudes, includes women as well. Of course you can imagine it sucks to do this. And of course that means that trans/non-binary/etc.. just don't exist in the literal sense that they don't have their own pronouns and proper word enfings. (Adjectives and nouns have their endings changed according to gender). Anyways probably nobody has read this but whatever!
Great video you tackle a complicated subject with clarity and humor. I have referred to my self with a number of labels and all I want is to be me. thanks.
“A pint of raw ether”
Natalie sounds odd.
It means he is mentally ill
There are only two genders then...wiener and bun??????
Well it kinda was a phase or you
Hair here is bisexual haircut goals!(Or, cue this bisexual's "do I want to date her or be her?" crisis over everything about Nat in this video.)
Am incredibly freaked by the doll in the background.
8:20 I like your voice too.
So I know this video is old, but I'm new to the channel and I'm still really confused. I want to be accepting of people, but the "common arguments" section of the video didn't have the argument I would have put at the top of my list:  What's the difference between identifying as non-binary in some way and all those made up genders like identifying as an attack helicopter?  I'm asking this question in good faith. If someone honestly says that they identify as an animal, what is the counterargument? Is there one? If not... I don't know if I can take this whole conversation seriously. I get how someone could identify as non-conforming but I haven't yet gotten a specific, clear enough definition for gender to include concepts like a spectrum but then also exclude the weird stereotype version which, yes, does exist in some small part. It does not make sense to me. Maybe it should? I don't get it.
That drink offer stands, by the way.
Welp, I've been called a "f*g hag" or "closet lesbian" for being attracted to "metrosexuals"...AFAIK they're definitely not homosexual and all have been like, 140+ IQ too...so I'm attracted to feminine men with sexy deeper voices who are smarter than I am. I also have no real sexual attraction whatsoever towards actual women.  Am I gender queer then? What's my real label lol.
Pink🌸🌸🌸 White  Purple ⚅⚅ Black⛾⛾⛾ Blue⚄⚄⚄  I'm genderflud
I just innocently concidered my bestie to basically be a girl ever since I met him in kindergarten...I never really thought of him as a boy while growing up, though he is now an openly gay man. He liked to dress up as a girl too, and I always wondered why that was a problem since I in contrast, liked to dress like a boy and no one cared about that. Doesn't mean I hated being a female or anything.  The only concern I have is in sports...if one has developed past puberty into a male, won't they most likely have more strength than a non-trans woman even after transitioning into a woman?  Idk I might be totally wrong...it just seems obvious to me that a once developed man will probably have superior strength compared to even the (naturally) most athletic woman due to having more testosterone during growth. If true then it's like what's the point of women's sports if there's no way they can compete anymore. It's also not fair though for trans women to not be considered a woman when they are...it's too complicated lol.
Holy crap that lace is banging, nice dress.
You re just a man with XY chromosomes that likes to be dressed as a woman.
I only discovered your videos recently, but you're already my favourite YouTuber! Watching your evolution (from identifying as male and cross-dressing 'ironically' to transitioning) makes me really happy. Your videos have really taught me a lot. Please make more videos!
A whole mess
Chinese speaker here, there's gendered pronouns in Chinese, but they are pronounced the same. 她for females and 他for males
I'm 6'3 and didn't think I'd "pass" because of that. But after I started transitioning, I started to notice that actually, there are quite a lot of tall women out there. I'd never noticed this before, but I was pleasantly surprised to start seeing cisgender women who were around my height on a fairly regular basis.
8:55 Well, hello from Russia: in our language, even verb and adjective endings are gendered. It sucks. c:
Natalie, I can't thank you enough for this video. I've watched it so many times. It's helped me construct some of the ideas I've been mulling over in working towards a better understanding of myself. You are beautiful and amazing and I appreciate you. <3
I know you dropping that good knowledge and all. But that doll in the background. I can't stop staring at it... like if I look away it's gun get me.
Love the doll in the closet!
how do wonderful people like Natalie not realise they're wonderful?
Rawr.
As you stand and talk about being something. Your hair your makeup and that killer dress i want that dress you look fantastic.
That doll is creeping me out
You do have very cool taste and style in your clothes accesories and makeup.Perfection my dear.
"I'm 6'2", my shoulders are twice as wide as my waist, and I have *this* voice. So, passing--it would take a lot of work."  **2 years later**   "Hi! I'm Natalie Wynn. Biological woman ;-D"   This is why people are inspired by you.
I’m starting to come out as non binary to a few people. I haven’t done a ton of cross dressing out of fear but now that I’m being more honest with myself I’m gonna buy some fun clothes
I've actually heard my conservative evangelical Dad say "I liked it better when they weren't so visible..." (Yeah.) He feels the same way about tampon commercials though, so there's that.
Does any AFAB genderqueer people like to be called dude or bro? :D
I'm trying to understand how bigender differs from genderfluidity. It was confusing on Google
Kind of sounds like someone is going to great lengths to rationalize their mental illness. I don't intend this as a dig or snarky comment, it's my honest opinion. Seems like, rather than admit people like yourself need psychological help, you've created this series of fictional constructs to make the world bend to your delusions. Again, no disrespect intended, but I remain unconvinced that this isn't all some means of burying yourself in denial
god, i love this hindsight showing how much i used to be a pos before i realized i'm lgbtq+ myself and stopped being horrible.
Your hair is cute like that
Me: the videos I watch online are political and thought provoking on issues faced in modern society. Friends: ah, so some intelligent content?  Me:... (2:05)... Uh yeah sure
He is hot.
The doll just freaked me out!!!!
Cool, banjo music and hot dogs, my favorites. lets party
You inspire me :)
I thought this was gonna be more than far left propaganda, womp womp
Hi. You're amazing.
That moment you realize she actually was going through a phase...
I come here from the future to pass on this message: ”Passing will be no problem! You will be super bio-hot!”  End of message.
Watching so far, I think that the video has an aggressive tone that people who don't understand gender theory are very unlikely to agree with. Perhaps a more fundamental, well paced, and comprehensive explanation of gender theory would be better rather than a bland assertion.
This was very informative, thanks.
6:24 - you are not inspiring? YOU are not inspiring? LOL... don’t make me laugh. You feed my brain cells like a titty full of milk feeds a hungry baby. And I don’t even go through half of the dilemmas about identity you go through, it’s just the way you meticulously lay bare your emotions and contradictory thought process that is just so fucking... INSPIRING!
I feel like any should identify as anything they want because if they feel good about what they identify then let them do it.it not hurting anyone.yeah I can ridicules but it not for us to go up and be rude about
Well i guess we have reached the point where absolutely anything can be normalized.
Especially in the light of what you're like today, it seems that you're experience or being non binary is that of being a trans woman who believe she'll never look like a woman and is trying to accept it by making a compromise.  Now this may not apply to all non binary people, but it strenghten my position that we should leave non binary alone, because it's an important step towards acceptance of who they are.
k but why did i nut when you giggled at 6:29
HA! Too late I’m inspired!!
The reason I have a problem with the term gender-queer is because it's associating  non binary with a being abnormal or QUEER.
Whoa, there's only like 5 "A" patrons.
I wonder if Natalie still has this opinion or if this identity was just a necessary step in accepting herself as transgender.
Nebulous political gestures,  Doctor.  send in the < 30 second distractions> ...shameful history, haunts us Gnolls...haunts our hunger, eats our ghosts. You cannot write off your gender identity on your taxes. You truly un-inspire me. Alpha up, feelings talker! Yur gonna need it in the mad darkness of the Abyss where DARK PROGENITOR ententicles all matter,  all anti-matter! all these labels in the 4th dimension -you will go mad to BEHOLD THEM. There, I have now Omega BANGED all the 2 year old videos, in sequence.  Year 1 Contrapoint, you have been judged.
sagapo ki eisai teleiothta
I must say, you are quite interesting
I think this is my favorite video.....on YouTube....all of YouTube.
Well.. you're DEFINITELY a degenerate pervert...but that's what makes you so goddamn hilarious!  :D plus I'm a degenerate pervert..  <3 go team weirdos!
i`m trans too
The answer is yes
I think I belong to queer... 😑
I think generally it's a lot easier for (people perceived as) women to explore gender without raising too much suspicion. When people who are perceived as males try to explore gender...it's not as easy to hide and conflicts a lot more with society being aggressively anti-feminine when seen as at the cost of masculinity.
oh god, I just made a comment on your nonbinary vid about the different reasons people oppose the nonbinary label and you just listed off every one of them here
Shaving and lasaring hours a week doesn't discriminate...
THE FUCKING. RED. DOT.
Now that took some balls... I'm a sixty year old straight man, and I think, however you or anyone else identifies you, you are extraordinary.
great video
Gender is not a feeling
And I am a women's bathroom toilet seat
i'm giggling uncontrolably every time you say BANG
contra, you have absolutely excellent taste in classical music
1:35 when describing biological sex a female organism is one that creates & outputs children while a male organism is one that exports genetic material for said children
This Butlerian madness has gone too far. She was a poor academic at best, a fraudster at worst.
Deep penetration by gender
Like f r wouldn't this whole shit be cleared up if we all understand the sex/gender distinction
Hello, I'm from 2019. Contra is a woman now.
I've been hunting high and low to try and find some non-binary people who can provide more than stereotypes about gender to describe what it is they are feeling, and I think you did a better job explaining it, but I still just feel like it sounds like an external representation of what you feel inside not being completely on one end of the spectrum. In ways, I think these sorts of labels harm the understanding by cis people what being transgender is really about, and give fuel to the more-trans-than-thou thing. I feel like more people coming forward with the truth about their dysphoria would help shed a light on non-binary better, and your subtle mention of liking your voice is the direction I would like to see things headed. I get how cruel ignorant people can be and why non-binary people wouldn't want to disclose those sort of things though. I see a lot of non-binary people that end up going through full transition to the opposite gender as their birth sex, and I feel like part of that is that going genderqueer is a baby step for some people to test the waters, but on the other end I worry that a lot of non-binary people end up with an environmental dysphoria of characteristics they once had no problem with because those things keep them from society accepting their identity, and referring to them by their birth sex, and they just decide they would rather be referred to as the opposite than their birth sex if they can't get people to accept them as non-binary.  While I consider myself full-blown trans man, there are certainly things that I would like to keep about my birth sex, and as time goes on, I often wonder if I will give them all up just to stop being misgendered.   I'd love to hear your thoughts.
This was the funniest shit ever! I wanted to research for myself and that it how I felt with the "Too many genders!" I fucking died! Lol! This is a cool chanelle!
Written Mandarin does have gendered pronouns, but spoken Mandarin does not.
I wish I didn't have to wait to see if that murder doll was gonna come out and kill you.
"I don't bang dudes... well, not yet anyway." Damn, that is some deep foreshadowing right there.
Doctor scene was the best :)
Still laughing about gender treason
There are only two genders: anime and guns. Can I get a heck yeah!?
Hi genderqueer, i'm dad
Non binary is a thing We just began usin 1's and 0's
I feel so well-represented right now, wow. You’re really getting me
4:00 that helicopter got SHOT DOWN
i can't deal with that doll, my sis!!!
Exactly two years ago today, you'd never believe if you saw yourself.
2:46 ahhhhrrrrr (that's a 'like', 'good point')
**tardis necklace** edit: the doctor part had me cracking up
'lets just pretend abnormalities in biology don't exist. there are only standard genotypes, no mutations, no altering of phenotypes. if i didn't learn it in high school its fake.'
Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes!
your going to be a mega star
"I'll let you decide, but the answer is yes" – appreciate a good RLM quote. Keep up a good work, love your videos, they're quite educational.
New to the channel and have to ask: what's the thing with attack helicopters that she keeps bringing up?
On the topic of pronouns, this video gave me a sudden epiphany.... If you find that you can’t tell what someone’s gender is, and you can’t find a way to ask, I wonder how this would work... for example, say you’re talking with someone and you say, politely, “Thank you, sir... sorry, do you mind if I call you sir?” I was just thinking that might be a good way to kind of get people to tell you what they prefer to be called without being insulting, instead of just being like, “..... So are you a man, or what?” LMAO, like uhhh that’s just not the right way to approach that, I’m sure we can all agree there, trans or cis. The response to that last question should be, “Are you a fuckhead or what?” 😂
"I drink my taxes, I pay my scotch,"  You had me, I swear thats pretty fucking funny
I don't disagree that gender can be non binary, but the notion that gender is a purely social construct is archaic by now. You have to ignore decades of psychological and neuroscientific research and just blindly worship Judith butler to cling to this. It's absurd.
Watching this now is so therapeutic. You've come so far Nat. Thanks for sharing your experience with us
hearing her before her female hormone therapy is so bizarre lmao
Wow you've come a long way! ☺ 👍
You deserve the world. Your talks explore every fiber
Love watching your old vids and seeing how much you've grown. It's a great documentation of how self awareness develops over time
The issue is when you say gender is a "psychological and sociological concept", you really mean "psychological". Because society should view as a member of the gender you chose for yourself. While the broader truth (in space and time), is that society never cared for your "psychological self". Gender is different from sex, and is a psycho-sociological concept. Not in the sense that "society will accommodate your psychology because it values the free will of each and every individual to bring them happiness" but in the sense that in a functioning society, the individual is (and should be for practical reasons) alienated by society to the point where he will accept and internalize psychologically his sociological self.  This incredibly novel way of working it out is called, "rules". They're the core of societies, not only among human History but among social animals too. And although an ant could technically be of any kind, it will be distorted and programmed and fed a special diet and coerced by the colony to internalize (and even externalize biologically) the features of the role assigned to it by the colony. If it doesn't, it is deemed dysfunctional by the colony and left to die. Because the colony doesn't need 573 queens, 2 workers and 4 hunters. And all societies have built a fuckton of rules about your sociological identity, that you just have to comply with in order not to get raped for years on end in jail.  For instance, perhaps you feel psyhologically like your natural empathy (along with holistic mystical healing powers) make you a better doctor than most other MDs and you should be allowed to be rewarded for the skills you honed. To me, this idea is as valid as the idea you should be viewed as a woman. Or an irresponsible child whenever sadness breaks lose in you to the point where you can't meet society's expectations for an adult and citizen. But if you start writing a sign for "MD consultations" without a diploma, society will rape you in the ass. If you were traumatized in war and can't just take it and feel you should run while conscripted, society will have your comrades shoot you in the back. If you feel your allegiance have switched in a time of civil unrest and doesn't go to the government in place anymore but to the rebels, society will plug your right nipple and left nut to a car battery. You see, the "sociological construct" of you, respectively, as "not a doctor", "a soldier on active duty", "a traitor judged by a martial court extraordinaire" supersedes whatever psychological notions you might have about you own gender or role. And it is willing to use the full scale of its legal violence monopoly on your ass to ensure your psychological views match its sociological construct about your role, to the extent that it chooses unilaterally. Because otherwise, it fails as a society and jeopardizes the safety of millions for the psychology of a few, which makes it inherently tyrannical.  Do you see what I'm coming at? Your gender is indeed a "psychological and social construct", but in the same fashion that your "status as a taxpayer willfully participating in the financial well-being of his community" or "concriptable soldier" or in most other societies which have existed "slave" or "serve" are/were "psychological and societal" constructs. What this juxtapposition of attributes really means is this : Society wishes for you to psychologically adhere to the role and gender it has chosen for you, both based on its abstract and eternal values and its technical and contextual needs. Because it all other cases, society will have to punish you for being dysfunctional, often to the point of making you entirely useless (a prisoner in its charge, a body in a mass grave, a screaming bag of meat in a mental institution). And society does not care for useless people.  That's what a "psychological and sociological" construct means, in actual functional existing groups/tribes/herds/nations. Not "a socially-sanctioned personal delusion about myself, rooted in a medical condition called gender dysphoria, because we're all free here and society loves us all unconditionally".
Thank you for posting an intelligent video on 'genderqueer' I relate with this and find this comforting. I love your humor and sick of drinking to pass myself for the day of not feeling guilty of being.      'odd' or.   Like a hot pet boy video.  It's a sin.   I remember watching via VHS tape with my mother.   Before she passed away...wishing I was straight in the name of God....so I can go to heaven.   Now my dad is on me....bless him... and maybe me
I don't know who june is but she looks and is dressed like boxxy
You are not genderqueer. You are a grown up delusional man who chose to act on his delusions.  You will never be a woman, a girl, a lady or anything resembling femininity.
I feel guilty about watching and even liking this video while she's so much further in her transition now...
I don't agree with what you are saying, but I have huge respect for your way of explaining this topic. You are very funny and talented so keep up the good work.
I almost fell down the "rational skeptic" hole a while ago because I enjoy atheism videos and a lot of those people are atheists. I am so fucking glad I found ContraPoints and she showed me the light. I'm disgusted to admit that I used to follow shoeonhead and repzion 🤮🤢🤮🤢  Edit: once i starred seeing their videos speaking down on nonbinary people, LGBTQA people, poor people etc. i started to realize I was barking up the WRONG tree.
The way he talks about disliking himself and makes harsh jokes about himself kinda reminds of myself. I have no idea how to feel that I relate to you. Mostly because I don't relate to most people. Plus the fact that no offense, you are weird, I'm not even talking about the gender thing. Just in general. Still subscribed.
Wow I totally feel you with the whole sexual degenerate thing I'm hey cis bi pan whatever f****** labels are using today. But I prefer I'm a freak and will f*** anything that moves the sad thing is people respond to you better when I say it that way. I was coming out to my friend the other day and she was asking if I top or bottom and I just said I'm a freak I'll do anything why do people have to care so much about what we do if they're not actively in it pun intended
im one of those 'trenders' :) nonbinary teen right here being cool, or whatever
Two genders soz babe
So where the hoes at?
Do you still feel the same about enbies and genderqueer now that you are binary trans? I notice all the people that ID'd as those "grew out" of it and ended up as a binary trans person or just went back to being cis. So it really seems like a phase to me, and I don't think phases are necessarily bad, as they help us learn and grow, but I do think treating it as a real experience harms people who turn out to be trans and cis people who are using it as a distraction from other mental illnesses they may have. I notice a lot of "detransitioning" videos surfacing on YouTube concerning cis people who confused gender for gender expression. I also feel uncomfortable in trans spaces because of the influx of people using these labels, who I and other trans people can't relate to, and we are often ostracized by the community for expressing that.
but aren't you confusing labels with identity?
U remind me of Joan Cusack
GAY!!!! No homo though....
I lovve your vids but my god the dolls... one of my actual fears 🙃
But you do inspired me. How could I not!?! You are the only same person I can tolerate and see your point.
I don't get it. So......you are like not male/female because of what? Psychology? Hormones?   Or is it not researched properly so much that you can't tell yourself?
I really can't make up my mind on this issue. On one hand, I acknowledge that there are all kinds of strange people on the planet who should be celebrated for who they are, and be respected by society. One the other hand, for each genuinely strange person on the planet, there seems to be another absolutely normal and straight brat who "wants to be special" and pretends to be strange just to have an identity. In a way, that person is doing "LGBT appropriation" (or whatever other minority in fact). Usually that brat is the loudest of those two, and speaks all the time about something they are not and that they don't really understand. So what does the average person hear about LGBT ? 80% of crazy bullsh*t made up by attention-seekers. This provokes a stupid misunderstanding and a conflict that has no reason to exist between normal moderate people and normal moderate LGBT people. So how do I react to LGBT demands ? Do I accept them as genuine needs for human beings, or as stupid arbitrary rules made up by fake attention-seekers ? What do LGBT people REALLY ask or want of society ? I don't know, because there seems to be a wall of radical and superficial people between me and the real person I would like to acknowledge and talk to. In a way, you, Contrapoints, have this role, and I thank you so much for that : for giving moderate and understandable information for the average moderate person that I am. But I also hate the misinformation and preposterous claims made by basically everyone else discussing these issues on Youtube. Obviously, most the "against-LGBT" is misinformed, but also most of the "pro-LGBT", and this is really tragic. N.B. : My claim that a portion (which portion, I don't know) of so-called LGBT people are not really LGBT, especially trans and queer young adults, is supported by two things, which you might or might not agree with :  1) The numbers for detransitioning show that a lot of teen trans people go through a phase and then change their mind. That means that a lot of trans teens and young adults will not stay trans all their life. Does that mean they aren't really LGBT ? I can't tell. But the second argument makes me think they aren't genuinely. 2) My personal experience. I have a number of friends from the leftist, pro-LGBT, and LGBT social spheres. Genuinely LGBT people don't talk loudly about it, and are quite rare. I know that because I talk to all kinds of quirky people, because I am curious about different human experiences. But a lot of people around them want to be special, and aren't really genuine people in the way they live, act, and so on, so when they claim to be LGBT as well, I am not inclined to accept their claimed identity as genuine.
I really like the clothes your wearing.
I"m legit laughing out loud watching you talk so vulnerably. Great video <3
Your musical choices are the Best ❤
6'2"? That was the thing that tripped me out most about this vid, not the gender queer reveal. :D
7:35 aaaaaaaaa
its real
Hahaha genderqueer what a load of bollocks. You're either born a man or woman. It's OK to be gay. But we all have a sex.
If you have guy parts use he if you have girl parts use she problem solved nice and easy
9:30 contra is a blessing upon this world
"I'll let you decide but the answer is yes" haha classic
I wonder how French or German people deal with this gender pronoun issue, when even inanimate objects like tables and chairs are gendered in those languages.
IF BOXXY WAS A DRAGQUEEN . . .
Serious quesriom: what is the label for someone who identifies with not wanting to be labeled?
There are individuals out there with only 1 x and xxy. Also this is all sex not gender.
Oh. So that's where attack helicopter came from.
You're beautiful just the way you are and don't let any of these assholes tell you anyways and who cares if you're a special snowflake fuck them
A friend of mine is 6 foot 4 inches tall, she is kind of angular and isn't quite as pretty as you are (or were, rather) and has no problem being mistaken for a man. The down side is she kinda makes me feel like a dwarf, but I'm OK with that.
Mother fucker there's male,  female and Intersex THAT'S IT...
This is like watching bronies...
Please you are leading the charge on rational enlightenment
Ive never seen a hotdog made of straw.
Well, spoken Chinese does not have gendered pronouns. But in the written language the pronoun "tā" (他，她）are differentiated by the male and female radicals (the left-hand component within each character). In any case, gender neutral language in English is not only possible but also sensical.
pretty inspiring to me
"you're watching this in the 21st century" *me, a historian in the year 2307 CE digging through the digital archives of early social media:* how quaint
Which of the only 2 genders did god unequivocally set in stone for someone with ovotesticular disorder and klinefelter syndrome?
well this fell through. youre a girl sis
I don’t think there’s a problem with having two “genders” eg male and female but people should be able to legitimately identify as whatever they like inbetween, if someone is neither they are neither and that should be respected, if they were born biologically one but are another that should also be respected and valued ect. I do understand however, how it can confuse non genderqueer people to hear “there are more than two genders” as gender is just a social construction tied to biological sex
As a white heterosexual cis male, I have learned gender is definitely fluid because after about 70 minutes of Contrapoints I am already uncertain if I am a heterosexual cis male.
OMG, the fucking hotdog! BWAHAHAHA!
that fucking doll is freaking me out
Came here for a thoughtful explanation but got bored after 2 or 3 minutes of pure hate. I guess genderqueer just means hate.
I like how at the start she claims its not a phase. Like look at yourself now bitch!
Something that requires treatment should be classified as either a sickness or a disorder.
You've come so far since this video. I don't know you, but I'm really proud of you
thank you for being in the youtube-sphere. ahhh what a sigh of relief
Ha Ha Funny....personally I'm None- Dairy.
I like how you used to be our humble narrator and now you're our dark mother
Great video and you're so smart. Gender is binary but also based on biology, i.e. clitoris'/foreskins, biologically NUANCED. It. can. be. BOTH.  If biological sex is strictly and blatantly supposed to be as rigid as we make it in society, religion or culture then evolution would have done away with clits and penis hiders the world over! ROFLMFAO! But we're mammals and obviously the evolutionary process didn't trickle down to the point of us having those naughty bits being phased out because they weren't necessary in said evolutionary process. They were advantageous.  Obviously nuance is the name of the game for us mammals. As it should be. So it stands to reason that we would also express, i.e. peacock, as different expressions of either our genders or our general ideas of who we are (think vanity and a girl buying Gucci to show off how fashionable she is or someone getting massive sleeve tattoos to virtue signal how cool they are or a 15 yr. old going through a punk rock phase (LOLZ). We're all just trying to figure out who we are in some form or fashion and that ambiguity is perfectly okay because again: WE JUST ARE. Human beings aren't valuable for their peacocking or gender but because we're all sharing this crazy human/mammal experience together and human life matters regardless. Humanity is valuable in and of itself. That's why we watch out for each other, try to make a difference or have hospitals.  Like, for instance, people pick a career but are complicated, like everybody else everywhere, and have interests other than their main career choice. Just giving a real world example to explain that regardless of our choices, life is complex and human behavior/choice doesn't always follow a linear path. You can be a complex person out here in the world and gender expression certainly can't be left out as an option. Kids are just taught so early and for so long that man= man and woman= woman that it becomes a set in stone belief that it's hard to make people budge on even just a little bit, i.e. homophobia and how people's ideas/ignorance/hatred of it often reflects their ideas about gender back to them, in doing so.   Science/biology aren't so black and white. WE ARE DIMORPHIC so we just ARE. Regardless of expression of said complexity.   Also, again you're so smartzzzzzz so I wantzzz to date you. That is all. #PleaseLoveMe Lmfao :P
You have come so far I'm so proud of you
peak comedy is shoving a hot dog in an electrical outlet
I learned so much about being genderqueer in this video and iT WAS MORE FUN THAN READING A TEXT OMFG
For all the people/youtubes you have mentioned in this video (and future), do you really dislike them or are you just having fun?
I came back to this video surfing through old stuff (not without a little guilt for gazing upon Natalie's awkward phase) specifically to find the video where the faux scientific idea that there are only two genders and, for that matter, only two sexes, is represented by dumb animalistic grunting and slamming hot dogs and buns together. I HAVE FOUND YOU, SWEET MYSTERY OF LIFE.
Love these videos. Wish there was a Contrapoints for ALL of the lives that aren't mine. Maybe we could all learn to be compassionate.
So a male dressed as a woman, drag queen? You are a man... Got that part aside... Okay, so transvestite, not a gender though. There is 2 Primary Gender, 3 Genders, and 2 Sub-classes of genders. Which the 2 primary is Male and Female. The third gender is a mix of both genders which is called Hermaphrodite. Then you have sub-classes of genders which is Pseudohermaphroditism, basically one taking more traits the other meaning one could be more male dominate the other could be more female. Understand all the other stuff you hear is fake not real and unnatural at this point in time. There could be a genetic mutation that allows a new gender to pop up somewhat in the distant future but till then its not real, get use to it.
Your honesty is actually inspiring!
"Honestly, I'm just not that inspiring of a person."  I found this channel for the first time a couple weeks ago and have been slowly working my way through the videos. I think your comment section is one of the best on YouTube and I've read a whoooooooole lot of comments. And I can tell you with absolute 100% conviction:  You're wrong about that, dear.
I love you! Thank you for bringing me back to the leftist progressive side of the force.
Holy shit...
Women are trying to stop hating our body hair and you're here enforcing traditional gender norms.
In Spanish and romance languages in general it’s even harder because not only pronouns, but all nouns and adjectives have gender declination -o (masculine) -a(feminine ) , to make it more problematic, plural speech ALWAYS assumes masculine declination, as if masculine is the standard speech, the only case feminine is used in plural is if everyone referred by the speaker is feminine, literally you could be speaking about a group of girls (niñas) but if one boy is added to the group you must immediately switch to masculine (niños); and our current pronouns don’t offer us a neutral option, so we’re trying to create a new declination capable of assuming inclusive meaning:  niño pequeño =little boy niña pequeña= little girl niñe pequeñe= little kid (not assuming any gender)  niñxs pequeñxs= little kids (both masc and fem and in between)   though, since it is still really new and experimental, most people shun us as crazy, because were trying to break with many of our standard and grammatically accepted rules. We’re basically trying to transform Spanish in a grammatical level.   I’ve noticed  that the more gender codified a language is, the harder it’s society perceives gender codes on a social scale. From the romance speaking countries, France is the most liberal in terms of gender, I suppose it has to do with the fact that gender declination has little to no impact in spoken speech, it lacks the phonetical stress gender has in other languages like Spanish or Italian.
i HAAAATE being non binary i’m uncomfortable and dysphoric and gross no matter WHAT equipment i have from the get go or COULD get why the fuck would anyone think i WANT this? i mean i WANT to be my real and honest self, sure! but i could do without the feeling that all that shit is wrong,,,,, and even if i was fine with my body, i’d still be nonbinary i personally would just be like “eh. this is alright. it’s not perfect in reflecting me but it isnt disgusting either.” -love a grown ass adult that drinks their taxes and pays their scotch, too, & has known the word for their identity for about five years now
That doll scares me every time I look away, then look at the screen.
I identify as a donut
Characteristics non-exclusive to either gender. Still not sure what gender even is. There is biological gender differences, hormones, differences in preferred activities, differences in how men and women see the world. Most striking (ahaha) is the difference in male violent tendencies.  I don't think gender is primarily socially constructed, I place my bets that since a human being is still an animal that it has ways to discern sex differences. One of the most obvious ways to discern gender in nature is scent. But these are not impermeable walls that cannot be transgressed, and the moral of doing so is purely traditional pandering and has no real value in reality. Changing gender should be a personal choice, it affects no-one else and doesn't have any noticeable downsides.  Gender reassignment surgery is imperfect though. We will reach a point where our assignments after birth will be superior to those that we get naturally. As machines tend to go. Given we'd most likely be sick or dead in much greater numbers without 'unnatural' solutions to problems like, birth complications, viral infections, bacterial infections, food security, threat detection, schooling, etc. Really the base human being is kind of stuffed without it.
Drop it Contra, you are incredible!
I love,you!!! Your awesome!!!
Ty ty ty!!! I’m a 55 year old single dyke who became paraplegic 4 years ago. I have struggled! But I think I’m going to start making videos about how to make it through. You- and other ppl speaking their shit n being vulnerable-are a huge inspiration to me to try to help others in my place. I’ve seen your more recent videos and love your  intelligence and infectious confidence, and your fashion and design sense. Pls make more videos!
i often find myself attracted to androgynous lookin people like you and david bowie and roger taylor??? is that a sexuality what even is gender at this point ffs tumblr fucked up my mind real bad
There are only two sexes. Except there aren't, i.e. hermaphrodites. Gender is a social construct. Perhaps if there was no expectations assigned to sexes, then genders wouldn't exist.
oh shit! the lighting! clever
2:06 wow that was so progressive. Very nice
My gender is elf. > \\ u \\ < I look like both. Clothes and make-up make me female or male. So... hihi;; at home without make-up while sleeping, I‘m a man. During daytime I look female and act like a bothyo or a super gay dude~ > < It‘s confusing at the moment. I‘m here for answers and a virtual hug.
Eu amo uma mulher (and as a mostly androsexual [freak] androgyne that's kinda confusing… for you, CIS SCUM *hysterically laughs at my own unfunny "joke")!
Genderqueer? Maybe mentally ill?
this hairstyle was a good look
On shoeonheads defence she has said she understands third genders
You say words good. Many likes.
What a freak
I love your vids! It’s important to learn about others’ experiences of life especially when they are different than your own. Agree with lots of the comments it’s cool to see your evolution in your vids as I am a new subscriber
I like the way u talk ♡
Also, when conservatives attack me with the two genders thing, I remind them that there are hermaphrodites, people with XO, XXY and YYX chromosomes, and there are a lot of them. What gender are they? Works to shut them up every-time.
I donno, I'm a straight male and I don't think Buffalo Bill and Dr Frankenfurter are objects of ridicule or disgust. I happen to think Dr Frankenfurter is pretty damn cool.
I want that top. Holy crap.
My  gender identity = ????????????????????????????????????????
The egg before the hatch.
Funny. You spell “mentally ill” differently than I do.
you say freakish hybrid, i say the term that my one pet called me "beautiful/magnificent creature"
"Normal" is literally the most boring thing a person can be.
5:08 yum, where can i get those stockings, while we're at it that is a nice shirt too
I like you - a lot
You are extremely inspiring...you might not want to hear that, but you are to me.
Your a fucking guy pls shut the fuck up
Be yourself....whatever that means :)
your crazy
Did you intend to have the trans colors in the hallway?
This outfit and hair tho ❤
That doll keeps scaring me😭😭
Only if you prefer to be called "asodijfpoasjfw9naspokamnvpoaj", I may object that this is a hard thing to do because my vocal chords would succumb. I really have no clue why people attach a negative value to how other people prefer to be called. Kindness and respect should forbid any such negative attribution.
Brilliant video!  I’m a ciswoman of 63 England ....I just wanted to say I really appreciated your vid...it helped me understand not only  the word ‘genderqueer “ but also many of the other “people gender reference” language you used that I’ve come across in reading. I’ve never had gender issues myself BUT I’ve had plenty of issues around finding and accepting myself, developing loving relationships with others ...and I just hope and long for a time when we can let everyone be who they want to be ( and no I don’t mean serial killers of paedophiles cos some idiot is gonna a say it) as long as it doesn’t harm others
WHY DO YOU HAVE TO INSPIRE ME SO MUCH FUCK
I’d just like to point out that clip from shoeonhead was a little out of context. She was talking about how nonbinary kind of isn’t a gender because it is most commonly used to mean the absence of gender. Genderqueer is a different thing.
0:29 ok but you're Google       Like YouTube is owned by Google and you're a YouTuber... nvm
I’m a girl with freakishly wide shoulders, large hands and I’m 6’1 “.
You are the best... Love you! Keep doing that great job.
My native language is Turkish(family member of Ural-Altay that includes Japanese) and we also don't have any gender-related pronouns. We refer to he/she/it as "o". Just o. Simple as that. It's not that complicated. But the mentality of my culture is still testosterone filled so, it's obvious to me that it doesn't depend on any pronouns to get people to understand that it's not about that at all... Cheers beautiful human for being careless about what pronouns people use to describe you!  P.S. I fell in love with you and I wanna have babies with you <3
Im greatfull for you making your content its important and educational
fucking marry me already
Right on target.
You're just wonderful, keep going!
That dead pixel cluster right next to her head is really distracting. I had moments where I starred transfixed on it. Her words just flowing over me, still educating but in a passiv manner. Wait, was that on purpose? Did I get hypnotized to comply with this? I got tricked into beeing an educated and empathetic human! Damn you Nat!
I guess this was transient
他，她，它 He, Her, It  Chinese does have gendered pronouns. They just happen to sound the same.
I lost it at the Pokemon theme LOL
Can you be my best friend but also marry me
♡♡♡
I want Natalie to debate Hunter Avallone. He would just scream “you have a mental illness” like the ignorant fuckwad he is.
There's nothing more typically trans than questioning whether you're truly trans.
I'm 33 and, I realized I was genderqueer back in November.  Thank you for this video. It makes me feel not so alone.
Can’t lie, I’m a bit prejudiced with LGBTQABD people but even though I don’t understand everything with experiences beyond mine I’ve been entertained by your videos and can see that you’re a smart and self-aware person and for me personally you’ve been a way I can humanize people like you. Live your truth my g
Hilarious. :)
I like your voice, too!
even though i don't agree with you this was very well said and structured. it was informative and not condescending. thank you
WAIT WAS THAT FUCKING BOXXY???
What's wrong with being a degenerate pervert?
I can’t laugh at your pain.  There’s too much. It hurt to hear. I’ve never seen such deep sharing. I hope people grow from your video. Also, the sex education talk with hot dogs and banjo music was the funniest thing I’ve seen on the internet. Thank you.
To get an idea of just how non-binary identities have faced erasure, Australia has recognised non-binary identities since 2013 (and if you had an intersex condition that gave you ambiguous genitalia, the option had been available since 2004), yet the only places i've seen it brought up outside of non-binary specific spaces (and even then, this video itself didn't bring that point up) are places that required confirming one's identity (e.g. passport renewal, online govt. healthcare services). If anyone has an example of a non-binary erasing person being directly confronted with the fact of Australia's recognition of non-binary gender,  could I please get a link, I would enjoy seeing them trying to comprehend being more conservative than the Australian government circa 2013 on gender politics (you know, back when we still didn't even have same-sex marriage).
There are 2 Genders        Change my mind
I love you.
The Q word is hate speech.   Disrespect for others is mostly what this is about.
Chinese has gendered pronouns in writing, they're just pronounced the same.  It's kind of a linguistic retcon, when you think about it.
I feel like this could use an update? How do you now feel/think about Non-binary identities now you've expressed your trans identity?
So this is what youth has done since, i dont know, at least 100 years, make older generation upset by their behavior and demands. Nothing new here, you can either fight it or let it just be, in 25 years this all is redundant waste of time just like the hippies or beatniks were at the time or even earlier, Charlston...lults
Genderqueer or not,I still find you pretty hot.
Gah this is exactly how I feel right now
Is the doll creeping out anyone else??
that fucking doll...
0:50 I think she actually apologized after this video. I know this because I'm subscribed to her.
my favorite people in the world are wierdos....including myself lol
But I do not understand how can one be trans and not experience dysphoria
Yooooo I have that shirt
I’m genderfluid and panromantic/ace 🤗
I   L O V E   Y O U .
Natalie your style is awesome ！
LOL omg I didn't know Arielle Scarcella's last name... I maybe still don't, that could've been wrong. Anyway I thought you were thanking her at the end.   Anyway yeah, um, fuck people, I love your journey and I love that you're honest about it without pandering to anyone. You should be a goddam superstar.
"Telling us we shouldn't have a label basically amounts to telling us to shut up and disappear."   Damn. Way to sum it all up in a sentence. I mean. Damn.
"There's nothing less funny than self-respect" might be my first tattoo.
"I'm a grown-ass adult, I drink taxes, I pay my scotch, and I'm gender-queer..."   I love u.
Sounds great I’ll identify as son goku now I always wanted to be goku
A year later & I finally know what I identify as; a mix between Khaleesi & Patrick Bateman. Love your videos pls do more I’m bored
Nope. Non binary is still not a thing scientifically speaking. Transsexual yep totally a thing. Does it mean i won’t use what ever pronounce a gender non conforming person use? No, I’ll use their preferred pronounce. Does it mean I won’t be friends with them? Nope got one gender non binary friend. At the end of the day I think the most important thing is how you are as a person. In that regard I don’t care if someone identifies as a cactus. A good person is a good person.
"mean videos about me. Nooo!!!"
Penis
Is that hotdog vegan?  Serious question. Animal cruelty wouldn't go down well with my audience.
My2cents: I am cisguy retired paratrooper and sometimes I just see some funny parallels to queer people on the "cultural landscape". Servicemen and queer folks usually have a unique vernacular and concepts that are common knowledge within their group. These are usually poorly understood by people not part of the group. Both groups are also strongly debated within the general public so peoples misconceptions are very apparent to them. They also are heavily favored by half of the political landscape, and demonized by the other half. I think those misconceptions will be the sword the queer movement gets stuck on. A "thank you for you service" from a person that doesn't know, what your service was and what it is he is congratulating on is probably as meaningful and irritating as someone who doesn't believe in a gender concept using your preferred pronouns. Don't get me wrong, acceptance is a nice feeling and I take a compliment over being called a baby murderer any day but it is not the real understanding you wish other people were capable of. On the other hand you shouldn't take it hard on the other person that they don't get it, it is not their fight and most people are struggling with no one being aware of it.  P.s: the one significant difference between queers and soldiers is; we are waaaaay more homoerotic.
Watching Contra change over the years... It's so fascinating.
You be whatever you wanna be!
Natalie 370k subscribers, must have some influence with people ☺
Natalie, are there any organisms that need more than two sexes to reproduce?
Gender does not work that way
Gender does not work that way
Gender does not work that way
As a really femme trans guy im really happy you made this video. i barely fit into the gender binary so it makes me feel really thankful you are explaining these things to people.
please remove that doll in the background next time it scared the hell out of me when i noticed it 😢😢
❤
*not yet anyway* I love you Natalie
Thank you for the video, just... thank you :]
A few of the people (definitely June, she made a whole general apology video, and I think Blaire) have reneged on their nonbinary comments since this has uploaded. When your exposure to anything is from kids with little empathy and/or respect for others it will barely influence you, but when a well-reasoned adult presents valid, researched, and actually humorous points, it can actually lead to conversation. So, sorry to say, but this video is important and not just shouting into a void.  But dammit if I don't feel a little put out that this is more evidence for people I've watched saying "I dunno, most people I've met who claimed to be nonbinary either became comfortable with their assigned gender or completely transitioned," since Contra has since said she's a transwoman. At least I still have Rain Dove still being a successful male-and-female model to keep me from thinking I'm lying to myself.
Why can't there 2 sex and different degrees of sexual expression....
Wow all of this is new to me, that was a lot to take in. Interesting stuff.
Living for the trans flag colors backlighting
It means your mentally sick and you need help. No one hates you for that. It's just the truth.
9:36 - 9:40  I’ll call you COMRADE ☭ https://youtu.be/U06jlgpMtQs
I would like to be circumcised.  I know there's a lot of blah, blah theories on sexuality, but I don't like the feeling.  I've had issues in the past with people using sex against me.  i could go on forever about bondage and domination. I choose not to.  If it's weird, okay, but so many years of my life have been wasted thanks to that.
Don't feel bad.  I don't like sex, what I've done, that is.  I'm still a virgin-is at 31, and I'm hideous.  In the military hospital, they were convinced I'd been molested because I wasn't having sex.  Okay.
0:07: Contrapoints, inventor of the sextuple whiskey.
Now that time has passed.   It's weird to see him/er say things like he/she wouldn't  change his/er voice, and how heshe feels a man and a woman and heshe wouldn't transition in a videos that is about being more honest about hieser previous statatments on hiser gender.  As a bisexual myself i'm reluctant to call it a phase, because it's annoying, and even if it was just a phase on hiser case, that  doesn't mean it is the case for everyone.  Now the problem I have with the video is that it's telling that you should be more understanding about the topic and that it's normal if you just don't get it. But then it's never explained how it is posible to be agender.   How do you feel agender? It's someting really hard to comprehend and that's just what we need to empathize. If you can't give an explanation on how it feels and how your body and brain percieves the world, I'd respect that, for politeness and respect, even benefit of the doubt.  But not understanding something and doing it for politeness shouldn't be enough.  And in a video that touches on agender(which i don't understand) and bigender(which I can understand) when it comes on explaining it, it deviates to refute the "biology though" people instead of trying to make a compelling case on what it is that it is.  And again, looking back it seems as another layer of protection on what her gender truly was.
I'm confused. I don't like being confused!!
There's a boy I like and we're in 1st grade, he's cool and we hang around at recess and play kick-ball, so since I like his company that means I'm gay right.
I had a cashier today say to me have a nice day sir, I was soooooooo ready explode, how dare they classify my gender, they don't know me even I don't know me as I'm in constant transition between genders and percents of genders including non human and non living genderless based consciousness.  I should have got the stores manager but at that time I was the manager.
Do I have to be gay to be queer I wanna know, do I have to be flaming just to be a homo.  Words to my new tune.
It was a phase...
omg she is too cute. Natalie what the fuck you aren't inspiring, you're a fucking legend. <3
Sorry, still inspired.
Stupid comment but  THAT IS SUCH A LOVELY DRESS. OK. Back to the substance now.
TE ADORO <3
My doctor has the same credentials
I quit twitter so now I just watch ur videos
You are beautiful.
Glad you brought a doctor in for that explanation.  I tend to think that science has been twisted by...people: "People are the problem . . . " As Dougie Adams did say.
Are you HowToBasic???!!!
I thought you were a girl
cool
Ther is two sex male and female.  Men and women . Feminine and masculine for only human
I’m a enby person who went down the wrong side of youtube and I finally got onto the correct side of youtube of rainbows. Also, cool humor side that isn’t patronizing is always nice. I’m not sure if you are aware of this but you’re writing is AWESOME. The hotdog skit was really funny. It’s 1 in the morning and I almost woke up my roommates laughing.
Chinese does use gendered pronouns. They're written differently (他 and 她) but pronounced the same.
6 foot 2? Damn Nat you're tall as fuck
Great video! My only issue with nb identities is like they are often another way of saying you are gnc, and the existing boxes of "woman" and "man" are getting more narrow if being gnc is seen as another gender. But on the other hand, people really seem to need a 3rd gender identity. So I don't know.
What I do not get is why people hang up to some mistakes made in history, such as assigned whatever at birth or the declaration of independence. What is that old, yellow paper worth, unless at nursery. I  was assigned Lutheran at Christening. Should I now call myself post-Lutheran? Even people in Belfast were not interested in my Protestant past.
hahaha being an egg is cute
don't know about other languages that dont have gender pronouns but Chinese does: 他 and 她, for male and female. but both are pronounced "ta" so...
contra point is a genetic garbage for disposal. Jest genetycznym śmieciem do utylizacji.
Hey thanks for the video. I feel that I understand some of the people in my social circle much better now and can better empathise with they situation socially as well as personally. I learned a lot. Thank you so much!
TIL Im gay. The title of part 2 is proof.
I’m living for this look  And the doctor groaning and smashing hotdogs and buns around made me laugh
As a southern person I identify as janderqwaur.
Marry me contra
dude, pragur U is putting adds on your videos lol
OH MY GAHD I LOVE THIS 😆
Gender is a social construct created to explain the feelings of the unhinged.  Sex is your everyday science explanation abscent of personal beliefs.
I'm quite sure we feel the same way about our gender but I'm not too sure...
You re actually quite inspiring  <3
8:51 I’d hate to be the bearer of bad news, but Mandarin does have gendered pronouns. If someone is just speaking, then it’s unisex. But if it’s written, the female version is 她, and the male version is 他. Don’t shoot the messenger, just clearing it up.
Jeez your voice has changed! 😸
Identify however you want, I would still marry you
That creepy little person in the closet haunts my dreams.
I LOVE YOU
Conservatives are fucking ignorant, stupid, worthless assholes.
DEMON QUEER!
Can't get over the doll in the background
Idk I would just call you a man , and whatever way you want to express that is fine and I'm okay with that . Because you like painting your nails and having long hair and wearing traditionally womens cloths is okay with me . I'm assuming your sex when I say he or him I'm not assuming your gender.. gender isnt even real just express yourself how you feel. Your not a hybrid man your just being yourself you dont need a label
“These aren’t ‘women’s clothes’, I didn’t steal them off a woman.” I lol’d.
I think people (including myself) have a really hard time separating gender expression and gender identity.
Yes
Bitch I love love love you!!  You’re a total queen!!!!  I love you!!  😍😍😍😍😍😍😍😍😍😍😍😍😍😍😍😍😍😍😍😍😍😍😍😍😍😍😍😍😍😍😍😍
LOL was that Kirkegaard? XD <3
I just watched a full ad of PragerU on the “war on Christians” ughh I hope you get all that add money contrapoints!!!
I love you
I'm more than fine with people expressing themselves and by extention gender in whatever way matches who they are. I do have a problem with the they pronoun for a singular individual. That word has a distinct meaning (plural group of subjects). So Any one individual being refed to as they does not imply no specific gender as much as it implies more than one person. This is the wrong direction and the word they is not replacable as we have no substitute for a grouping of subjects. I don't see why this is a hill gender queer folks want to die on because it is not a conquerable hill and it shouldn't be. They is the wrong pronoun for gender queer, they is plural. We just need a new pronoun, and cis people can and will over time except it. But the they thing, that is a huge uphill battle which even if you win just muddies our comunication more about gender.
You don't suck. I like you.
My come back to the whole “there are only two genders” when folks are talking about a sex of a person, I ask if they know about intersex folks.
I'm a 33 year old non-binary human and was assigned female at birth and I identifying more closely with you even though you are more femme than I am. Gender is fun. Imma do a video on my gender shifts since kidhood! Thanks for the idea!
5:45 as jontron says "If I hurt Myself first then you can't hurt me okay!"
What is the difference of both vs neither?
Do you have to experience dysphoria to be genderqueer? Btw, I probably have more questions. I just want to know more about this and have a conversation
I'm sorry, but Ican't focus on what you're talking... that doll is starring at me.
I don't understand how it's so hard for other people to understand people are complex
A trump ad played before this video wtf
You inspire me. The fact that you act unlike other people and you rush head first in to an honest representation of yourself and so publicly is beautiful. People can go to the grave hating themselves because of their desires (not strictly those of a sexual, or gender non-conforming nature) that they never acted or even talked about. At least from what I can see in these videos I see someone who values truth even at the cost of some embarrassment rather than conformity or lies. If you ever come to NYC I would love to chat with you, I think you are amazing!
"Other people's pain is funny"? nope
You said we could call you whatever we want so is “Mommy” okay?
why the doll?
"People say we're just going through a phase," says woman going through a phase.
Gattaca
Like an amazing Annie Sexbang. I love the look.
"as it harms none, do what you will". if that doesn't satisfy you, you've got something else going on.
I love you. You are such a comfort. Thank you. And I am jealous of that out fit. So cute.
thanks for all your videos ~ so creative!
I always think the gender argument is so stupid. You literally don't have to use pronouns if you don't want to, at all. You can ask someone's name and just use their name. People ask me what my pronouns are and I tell them I don't really care; they shouldn't talk about me in third person around me and what they perceive me as says more about them than me. Maybe that's an oversimplification that places the owness on everyone else; but, that sounds like a you problem.
I'm a cigender male and I do think that some people don't identify as having gender, and that's okay.
you don't exactly fall into the definition of a "grown up" but ok. close enough.
“i’m a grown ass adult” i just Screamed i love you
this is inspirational and you're so so so hot
You'er NOT gender queer, you'er just queer.
Her hair looks so good damn good in this video, why can't my hair do that :'(
the. fucking. doll.
I couldn't care less about what people call themselves or what gender they are, but it annoys me when in all up in my face.  But that also applies to us being all up in their faces, don't be a dick, leave them alone
LOL, the hot dog though hahaha
Chinese actually does kind of have gender pronouns.  他 is gender neutral while 她 is explicitly feminine.  They have the same pronunciation, thought.  They are both 'tā', so the distinction is only in writing.  However, 她 has fallen out of favor and isn't used so much anymore, and 他 can and usually is used for women as well as men.  The left side of the 他 character (人)means "person", so it really is a genderless pronoun (the left side of 她 is 女 which means "woman").    So claiming that Chinese doesn't have "he and she" or "him and her" is basically correct.  I'm just one of those people who has to comment.  I support the message of this video.
This shit sucks dick
benis gooos in vergaqna end ove discution libtard
Why hasn't queer been discarded. It's original meaning meant odd or strange.
"I really value humor and there's just nothing less funny than self-respect".   Also, You're my queen!!
This vid is really pissing me off.  We have so many IMPORTANT problems to deal with i.e. climate change, creeping fascism/populism, insane wealth inequality to name a few.  That this lovely individual feels the need to talk about this stuff - which should be the LAST thing discussed after all the big problems are solved - is frustrating at best.
OMG I too drink taxes and pay my scotch! Fine I'm kidding. I pay my wine.
I mostly watch conservative right wing channels like the ones you mentioned in this video and usually agree with their arguments. It is very refreshing to see a leftist make such eloquent, intelligent arguments regarding these topics. Very Well done video.
Your journey is amazing to watch 💞
Ok why can we be judge by your dna
All old souls are non binary and usually come with identity crisis. *hugs* I FEEL this.
Aren't many agender people simply cis people who feel not very attached to their assigned gender? Excuse my ignorance, I haven't really had the honour of meeting anybody agender
are you an sjw? dont take this offensive, im just curious tbh. ive always thought of sjws as the embodiment of cringe lmao
ily
Thank you for all your great content & educational material too. I began identifying as genderqueer about 12 years ago. At this point in my life I've stopped doing my makeup & depersonalized from depression & family that doesn't accept me, so much that I'm nothing like who I used to be. But that's why I love seeing people like you & others blossom into themselves & succeed. Makes me happy someone else can do it.
How dare you prefer me to refer to you by a different pronoun. I won't have it! I'm lazy and if I want to call you "he" I damnright will! Everything is not how I was taught it was and I don't like it!
Irreverent and informative, as always.
Only got into Contrapoints a few weeks ago and gotta say, having gotten used to the vids after she transitioned, going back to these older ones is bit weird. It's like seeing childhood photos of your goth friend before they got into Slipknot.
Ok so I'm genuinely trying to learn about non-binary gender identities, because I don't know anything about this. If one doesn't quite identify as either male or female, but something in between, why not just be a woman/man who doesn't conform to traditional gender norms? Why not just be someone who has a lot of qualities usually attributed to the opposite sex? Why create an entirely new gender identity? What is the draw factor there? Again, no disrespect, I'm really just trying to learn more about why people identify as non-binary.
2:07 Is this one of those "pickup artist" videos I've been hearing about?
Hey, you're doing a great job! #Inspired #GenderQueer
Anyone else notice the creepy doll in the background
The lady doll in the closet seems to hint that you were on your way to coming out as a trans woman. Very literary!
I'm relating to this video way too much its borderline terrifying
I can't believe how much I just lost my shit at the doctor explanation of gender.
An issue with non-binary "snowflakism" is when this specific group begins to ask for privileges over the rest of the demography. Although there are only minor issues to this day, we are already seeing issues that may translate into bigger ones in the future. Take for example Laurel Hubbard: she was admitted into the female category of an international weightlifting competition and she won the gold medal, big surprise. Despite the fact that she is a woman mentally, that is not so biologically and therefore I ask: how will you segregate* trans people in sports?   Another one is the issue of dating and casual sex: how can you ensure that there is consent between both parties? Especially in the case for casual encounters, it seems that it is either: the trans person telling the other person that they are trans at the beginning of the flirt which might kill the mood, to tell the person immediately before the act in which case the other person was deceived or let them discover for themselves which really is the same as last one but you didn't dare tell them.   *I use segregate before that is what segregation is to me
I had to take a break at the Doctor's demonstration.  I was laughing too hard to hear what else you were saying....holy shit I am so glad I subscribed to you!
Nice video, very ejoyable. I'm also a freak show and I love your dress.
the important thing about you is that you would probably still be fuckin weird even if you had been cis and het, the eerieness that you exude clearly comes from a much deeper place, like the grave of whatever faeudalism-era demon you are possessed by sometimes. whatever name fits that at any point of time because humans are too paradoxically both complex and stupid to capture themselves in their own language with preciosion, ever. probably. point is, you do you, the rest of us count impersonate you, you do not get the comfort of being average and we all know it.
0:20 seconds in and we already get iconic queen
I've been on an unhealthy binge watch of your videos for two days straight, so I'm sorry for the creepy comments on old videos, but I wanted you to know you're super pretty in this video. I mean, you're super pretty in all your videos (otherwise why would I be watching, amiright? Looks > in depth, enjoyable content with an artistic aesthetic and dark, sarcastic humor. duh.) but I particularly love your hair and make up in this video, and that top is amazing. <3
✌❤🌭🌭🌭🌭🌭🌭🌭🌭🌭🌭🌭🌭🌭🌭🌭🌭🌭🌭🌭🌭🌭🌭🌭🌭
Hey girl, idk if u struggle w this as much as me but if you dip slightly dry nails into cold water then they will dry more quickly. Edit: accidentally used “hun” bc I just recently learned it was a mean term. I just like calling people honey but I’m too lazy to type it out!!
I have enjoyed your videos a great deal. They are entertaining, bizarre, thoughtful, provocative, insightful, confusing and oddly enough, fun. It's confusing that I see a great deal of myself in you, especially given that I don't have much in common with you, or not with the "you" presented in these posts. That being said, the one thing that is undeniably clear is that you are more yourself than maybe anyone I have ever met, save myself. Not sure if that means what I thought I wanted it to but here we are. Thanks
Yeah actually the "only two sexes" science fact is... a simplification, not a fact. Fact is there's a LOT of sexes (aka a spectrum). Hence lots of genders  https://twitter.com/sciencevet2/status/1035246030500061184  Love your channel and work =)
I’m so grateful that you exist. ❤️  you’re really doing your part to coax a dialogue out of this shitstorm.  You’re doing the damn thing. And living your life.  ❤️ I admire the work you put in to becoming yourself— always becoming.  This is a new paradigm of life I’m excited to explore.  Thank you for your thoughts & work & example.
I absolutely adore you.
Funny how, now your voice sounds female......
i dont know why people bother clicking on these videos unless they are genuinely interested, lgbt+ themselves. yall legit are going out of your way to start shit lmao
its kind of funny that cis people accuse us of getting so pissy about getting misgendered and shit but yet there are 4,010 comments where the majority of people are like "HHHRNNNGnnG SHE'S TAKING AWAY MY RIGHTS,,,, ThEyRe AlL dElUsIoNaL...." its like "hey at the very least can i have basic respect and equality" and everybodys like "NO I CANNOT ENDORSE THAT,, SUFFER"
that f*cking doll though
There is nothing to be disgusted about in Rocky Horror
Your intelligence is extremely attractive.
unmisgenderable <3
not to invalidate the genders outside of teh realm of biology, but i often ask and get no reply, could you or anyone please explain what gender is to you if you do not attach it to sexual characteristics? what really makes it a description of gender, cus i could get behind the 4 (feeling like either man, woman, both or a-gender as the description of not feeling gender attached to how you feel and want to be i guess, experiencing life as a human just leaving genitalia out of it), but the ones that feel like they are disconnected from those feelings regarding your biology, to me feels like.. is it really gender then, cus what links that identity to being gender? (genuine questions as i do want to understand to not feel like this is stupid and would just decide not to validate it like i wouldn't validate someone who is otherkin and believed they have invisible wings) I just want to understand, wouldn't you want us to understand so the issue of you not being recognized gets forgotten some day, because i do find it seems more like mythical pokemon that have nothing to do with gender in some cases therefore so many people make the overly used helicopter jokes, to underline the lack of explanation as to what gender is if it is not linked to description based on sex -related specifics of living seperate sex organisms that most mamals and plenty of other animals are. using genders serves a purpose after all as you wouldn't market tampons to men, or ask women to take prostate exams... like it may seem like i am only using the more obvious ones, but there is so much more in terms of male and female organisms and even though there are extremely rare cases of someone not being categorized solely as male / female but even those cases still biologically lean to having a way to recognize that that is a male or a female based on multiple biological factors, like most hermaphrodites are men who just don't fully develop male genetalia but they aren't really women, just something a small process AFTER the conception of the child didn't go smoothly. as to people with extra hromosomes treating that as a sex. sure we all have different genitalia, but they can always be categorized and not just gens make your gender it is all of it, you can't exclude biology from it and pretend that we only made up that there is a clear difference. women have less density in muscles so there is very little chance of a male of the same body mass loosing in arm wrestling to a woman of teh same mass (obviously a woman who is larger in size as previously stated that the density of our muscles is not the same) i know reality sometimes feels frustrating, and sure we made up the names and language and we decide when something can be categorized separately, but when all presented factors point to one conclusion what really is the essence of gender if the research done by people is seen as somehow faulty. and calling it a social construct is a very lazy way to avoid specifying it, since democracy is a social construct but no one claims democracy to be a gender. i want to hear what gender is in the eyes of people who do not link it to anything is all i am saying. I deeply apologize for the long wall of text, as this really is something i would like to explore more in terms of thinking about it and trying to understand that side of the argument
After taking so many gender, women, and sexuality classes at school which focused on science and technology, I can't get the image of most doctors/scientists being apes in lab coats mashing things together while acting very serious, and the normative population who props them up nodding their heads and applauding. It is so refreshing to see that someone else has imagined this, too. "This hotdog, this bun!! Facts grunt grunt!"
Gotta catch em all. All them sweet sweet genders.
WHATS WITH THE SUFFRAGETTE FLAG ON YOUR THUMBNAIL????
I still think being trans is kinda crazy, but I don't care because I like crazy, it's the spice of life. I'm all for people feeling however they want about themselves, and not allowing people to bully them for being weird. I don't feel a "gender" inside me but I'm well programmed for mostly "guy" behavior and that's fine because that's a tiny part of my personhood. Guy clothing is more comfortable in general, though dresses look nice for hot weather, I've looked into those wraps from SE Asia, nice open balls. Seems like it's only a thing if you make it a thing because of comparing yourself to societal standards. I wasted a lot of time doing stuff like that for being bisexual, so silly. If someone gives a shit about me being bi they most likely have suppressed issues themselves. Otherwise, why give a shit? Religion? I only care about religion to the extent of crazy people hurting me because I said I don't believe in their's. We're here, right now, all that stuff other gets in the way. We're all trying to understand what's going on right now from what's happened before, but right now is new. I'm drunk.   I like you, you're crazy, lots of thoughts. The self deprecation is fun. I'm wondering if anyone really has a gender, as in something inherent and important. I get the feeling it's mostly just a perceptual thing, important if you feel it's important. And that's fine, I have loads of stupid things I waste time on that I can't let go of, I'm crazy on multiple levels. Likely in ways I'm not yet familiar with, at least I hope so. So it seems to me that people throughout history have struggled with this facet of identity that's ultimately not important and that it's funny and adorable, one more example at how good people are at making a big deal out of nothing instead of covering our buildings in rose bushes or something interesting. Instead, worry worry, think think. I've probably written millions of words in youtube comments. Why?! Because I'm crazy and can't help it right now, and so it is. Laugh/cry
Stay in milk an drink your school.
Data on biological sex also being a spectrum!!! https://twitter.com/ScienceVet2/status/1035246030500061184?s=19
It's too late here for smart comments, but your content is real good. Makes me laugh and think
Omg where did you throw your phone!!!
I have a problem with "they" cause it reminds me of pluralis maiestatis and if there is something I can't stand it's the aristocracy and the concept of it. The best way is your way where ppl can call you him or her. I don't define you. Asking me to use a different noun would mean asking me to give more shit about you than I give about the next guy and nobody has right to ask me that.
I know this is an old video, but I really wanted to show my appreciation for the Laurie Penny article that you linked. As someone who struggled with anorexia nervosa and body dysmorphia for a long time before realising the overlap with gender dysphoria, their experience was very affirming to read. Your videos always do wonders to help alleviate my feelings of invalidation with being an AFAB non-binary person.
Its just simple science that there are only two sexes. What’s that? This video is about gender? Ohhhh ... let me .. I uh, left my notes in Kentucky...
Do you ever miss your deep voice?
When did you transition from genderqueer to a trans woman, or do you still consider yourself genderqueer?
but... are you a moid or a femoid... WHAT WILL THE INCELS CALL YOU
Despite my different views and beliefs in 2 genders, I can respect you and I find this video funny. If I every meet you, I would simply give you the same respect as anyone else. Do I agree with everything? No. Would I bully and hate you? Hell no.
well, It doesn't matter what gender you are or feel, if any. As long as you dont shove hotdogs into electrical plugs. that shit's dangerous.
thank you... i finally know that im bigender
totally stealing "I drink my taxes and pay my scotch"
But what if I can't bite my peeps off and my mom or dad can't get it off ether do I have to take enough people for it to become used and call off
Hey there, I'm non-binary and omni-sexual (I will fuck whatever you have, lovingly, if I like you). But it's easier to "pass" as a het-cis housewife.  Its depressing as fuck.  If I was to be myself, I'd lose my marriage and my wellbeing.  So, I take the easier route.  Because the other option is losing everything I live for (my children, housewifery, staying at home and crafting).    It sucks to not exist.  Bi-sexual (more precisely, omni, but whatever) and non-binary are both "not real".  Therefore... I'm not re- oh fuck...
The sausage part is how lgbts do sexual education in schools.
The way I like to have things inserted into my anus is Bit by bit and very slowly.... at first. With that in mind why don't we start this thing slowly and avoid unnecessary fissures (rectal or societal), let's just start with three genders: Male, Female and Other. Then as the relevant organs of society or body are loosened by gentle but insistent pressure, more genders can be slowly inserted all while whispering comforting platitudes.  Before you know it the slippery slope fallacy will become a transwoman's slippery phallus bringing society to a new level of coital bliss.
"But also, shouldn't society accept, and maybe even celebrate the freakish and abnormal?"   It's not that it should; it already does. Society in itself has always been queer, and we celebrate freakish and abnormal people all the time, from professional athletes, to politicians, to artists, writers, to the stars of media that we consume. We absolutely adore the strange, which is why it boggles my mind that people waste time and energy fighting against something so trivial to them as what people identify as or want to call themselves.
ContraPoints, I like you so much. I wish you a lot of days where you're happy with yourself and feel fulfilled and just ... good. You're a fucking inspiration for me to always come back to what I know is right even if I struggle HARD sometimes. Thank you. I appreciate you as a teacher and as a gorgeous human being.
Your hair is so lovely and bouncy x
10:23   -   Why not call ourselves "human being" and demand the recognition and understanding *for that?*  Playing the advocate of the devil here.
"Genderqueer". I can't believe we reached this level of Jewish degeneracy.
Hot dogs are gross
Yo so I am a y o u t h who is currently very confused about these sorts of things and how to sort of figure out identity and all that shit and these videos are sort of helpful. So thanks. Either way life is terrifying hhhhhhhhhah
I like my feminine body, but I want to be considered as a man by society. I wonder if I should start presenting more masculine. ;) I have trouble identifying as non-binary though because I'm short and have boobs so I feel like it's obvious what my sex is. It's hard to conceive of sex as being entirely different from gender, because our idea of what gender is comes out of sexual roles.
No objection to your wonderful self here. My sexuality is often erased too. I'm pansexual. By the way, you are beautiful and I admittedly have a crush on you for your humor, beauty, fashion sense, makeup skills, and most importantly your intelligence. Your mind is quite sexy.
No. I refuse to call anyone bigender. Not because of what it means, but because who the hell thought it was a fantastic idea to identify as a BigEnder? Proof read, people!
Dude, just think, it could be worse. You could be a republican.   = )
00:59 great LGBT activism there arielle using the same arguments transphobic people use
Thank you Nat, for always putting your complete self out there. I am just now watching this video even tho I have seen many of your others already. I am genderfluid or genderqueer or non-binary or whatever you want to call it. I am also ftm trans. I doubt anyone other than you could understand just how I feel about my gender.
.
Hello! I only just found your channel and am happy to be a new subscriber!! Sincerely, another grown ass genderqueer freak.
"ass" you showed...He he...oops!
People asking those kind of questions, or arguing those believes ass you showed in the clips, isn't really what makes me angry.  But more...WHY? what does it even matter?   Why do they even care/object to begin with? It's like race-differences and what not...Why do people even care?....I'll never know.
<3
I think everyone needs to step away from the screens for a few hours and go play outside.
Sounds like some made up bullshit concepy pushed by globalists to weaken men and destroy traditional values. Sex is for reproduction. Show me a zebra that wants to change its gender to demiqueef gender whatever...
*is at **2:07* ...*smashes subscribe button* I'M DECEASED
There are gendered pronouns in chinese. They’re just homophones. They’re written differently. Love your videos.
yessss i also am genderqueer and i'd ideally get an epileptic-fit-inducing flashing-lights pronoun flipflop in every conversation yesyesyes i get it's not going to be a thing that happens but i yearn for pronoun chaos, give me the pokenouns
Omg, I wanna fuck her sooooo bad.
yuck
this is so gay
What is wrong with just being a man and liking to dress like a woman? Why do you have to make up all these bullshit pronouns? For people who don't like to be discriminated against, you sure make it easy.
Welll... that went down quick...
I enjoy your videos quite a bit; as someone that considers themselves a "rationalist/classical liberal", at times you've made arguments that have "rubbed my nose" in certain lines of thought I've had that might not bear as much scrutiny as I thought they should. Bitter pills for sure, but appreciated none the less.  I came of age in the mid-90s, and I think my generation was pretty progressive; probably the first where being queer of whatever flavor didn't make you a complete pariah in more enlightened circles. So it really shocks and dismays me how tone-deaf and regressive my generation has become about race and sex/gender identity as we've entered middle age. I swear, we weren't like this 20 years ago. I don't know what the fuck happened.  Anyway, keep doing what you do. I dig the way you attack these issues with your intelligence, righteous fury, and subversive humor.
"Oh no, I can't use they to describe a singular person! It's against the grammatical rules of my fucked up language that regularly ignores its own grammatical rules!" English is a bizarre Frankenstein language people, and we've been using they as a singular pronoun in literature for a very, very long time. I'd even wager you've used it yourself at least once. Example: you see a figure at the end of the street doing something odd, and you say "what the hell are they doing?" because they're far away and honestly figuring out what gender they are is less important than the fact that they're doing something weird like riding a unicycle or something. It's not really unreasonable, English speakers as a whole have been using it to fill the gender neutral pronoun gap for longer than we've been discussing whether we should have a gender neutral pronoun.
Rocking that wavy hair! 😍
This kind of feels like where contra had started to not only come out as gender queer, but also pick up the aesthetic she is characterized with today. The lighting, the colors, the even more on point outfit then usual...it's all here, just toned down comparatively. This channel has been a really interesting linear story, but calling it a story seems rude in of itself to the stuff I know she had to go through...I think an experience is a more accurate term, at least how I interpret her videos.
That fucking doll in the background tho...
Great work.  The world's a better place with these videos in it.
im genderqueer 2
Blagh human-bio biologists think they know everything. What about other organisms that change their sex at certain stages of life? (this fact also changes the plot of "Finding Nemo" quite a lot...).
Welp, I just found my new favorite YouTuber 💕
So that's why sh0e doesn't comment on your videos anymore. Lol.  She's so immature.
While everybody else seems to adore their labels to the point of self-identifying, I do not. In fact, I find most labels too small and very confining so the vaguer the label the better it is for me.  I am an earthling first, a human second and me(fill in name here) last. Everything else seems rather inconsequential. I like referring to myself as a freak, mostly because many of those that refer to themselves as normal are hateful ignorant violent self-centred judgemental sickos. I see nothing wrong with being a freak waving her freak flag in such a society. Personally, I think everyone is a closet freak conforming to some societal standard to blend in. I meet so many people I do not remember because they all look alike, wear the same ugly clothes and have the same boring haircuts. Being a freak is to be original. I like the word queer largely because etymologically it stems from "query", to question or be questionable. And anyway, asking questions is a sign of intelligence. Better yet I like to refer to myself as classical jazz.  Because in such music, there are notes that are 'ambiguous'. A minor diminished seventh or some such. I have heard jazz instructors refer to these as ambiguous. I want to be ambiguous so I am going to be Miss Ambiguity. Love your shows as always.
"Stop being inspired!" Done, and done.
I'm a masculine cis bird. Never fit in, have big hands snd feet, wide broad shoulders. Unfortunately endocrine disrupting foods and shit has given me huge breasts and a bulbous bottom. I've never fit in or had an identity. Looking around, I don't know if many people do..  they change who they are.. hair, make up, body frame,  surgery, sexuality. I just think we have too many self loathing bullies who outwardly project their inner turmoil unto others in order to forge a club of misery.  For on my own or in loving company, I don't care what I look like.
Please read audio books.... *but* don't stop making videos. Your a bastion of colour and texture.  I love your cadence.
Well... In 2018 you're a transwoman... Guess it was a phase.
i started with some of your later videos, went to your early content, got confused and now it makes sense again. I don't know what I didn't remember that people come out at different times and that two years is a long time "^.^
Wtf is it that I literally just think cross dressing is fun? I'm not turned on by it at all and I 100% feel like a dude in women's clothes. But it's fun. What is that?
people who uses 'scientific fact' as an argument forgot that the main part of science is the constant updating and correcting of itself, like how what would seem like an universal truth a decade ago had been proven wrong, over and over again. my science books when i was a small kid still have the sectioning of the taste buds in our tongue, claiming each part sense a different flavor. but thats not actually the case! all tastebuds can sense every flavor just fine! so what if your past scientist of choice claimed that there are only two genders? claims get debunked and corrected all the time. the claims that gender is a spectrum is made scientifically too. gender is binary and gender is fluid theories might also be debunked in the future anyway!!!
This so eloquently summarized what I want to tell a couple people around me tbh Subscribed! 💫👏🏾💖
Thank you
I feel like before committing to transitioning, you should try laser hair removal.
I don't care how anyone wants to define themselves. I just ask you let me not give a shit and not yell at me for not caring.
Kierkegaard has nice lips.
I want you to step on me like a lego brick.
By the way guys I identify as a 1972 fire truck and if you guy's can't get over that well then fuck you bigots, you just hate fire trucks. Transautomobilia for the win.
fuck, for someone who just found your channel it's weird as all goddamn hell to hear you speak straight with a man's voice and have an almost faux-stache. I mean I already figured out you were trans by the first video I saw but damn... I feel like I'm in a goddamn episode of the twilight zone (the good one anyways from the 50's... before the show had to deal with shitty reboots).
I'm agendered and I also don't care what pronouns people use on me. I just don't give a fuck. So yeah, no anger here.
Great video, but just wanted to point out that people in Chinese do have male and female pronouns.
I don't think I've ever related to yt video more than to this. Your chanel brings light to my sad,sleep deprived life at 5am
"There's just nothing less funny than self respect" - Natalie Wynn (2017)
Nice coming out special snowflake.
Hey I'm new to this channel and I must say I am so impressed! I know its a little embarrassing but to be honest I never actually understood genderqueer and non binary people (not even transpeople completely) before until I found your channel and this video. This is still all new territory for me and Im still very unsure about the terminology involved but I am so so grateful to you for explaining these things in such a rounded way. Thank you for making this video so I could educate myself!
Did that doll screw with anyone else? I kept waiting for it to move
Well hello, young Wynona Ryder. It's an absolute pleasure. No, really. Mmm <3 Speaking of sexual deviants, you have turned me into one. All praise and blame to ContraPoints - the bitch slays me every video.  I feel lucky to be able to go back and watch all your videos now, because it's just inescapable how largely honest about your private mental machinations you are even while you're covering up, in ways that are very relatable and understandable in the great human endeavour of self discovery. I hope you haven't copped too much flak for these "inconsistencies" (I actually typed incon*cis*tencies which made me giggle) since we all deserve our little protective bubbles to help us learn and grow. Life is hard enough! I'll admit, the thought of you as this crossdressing sexy smart feminist hetero male unicorn was fun (so fucking fun) but I'd peeked ahead, I kinda knew it wasn't going to last. As such :P  Love all your evolutions, though. You're like an Eevee who levels up in rotation from Vaporeon through Espion (fuuuck, imagine if there was such a Pokémon... my primary school would've turned into an Aussie Battle Royale, and I would've gone on to the Pan-Pacific level, taking on tiny Japanese 8 year olds for a box of Pocky and the promise of a Mew)
You had me since the first video i saw of you <3 Is there a way to put spanish subtitles? wanna share but they don't speak english
2:23 will sustain me for weeks to come
"Stop being inspired!"  No can do, dazzling, effervescent being!
XoxoxoxoX
I'm surprised you didn't mention intersex people as a counter to the two biological sexes argument. Anyways I've been binge watching your videos and they're really good.💙
hand hir a wurst, conchita, we feel inspired
You're just an idiot
idk really what to say to this except that I am glad you're expressing yourself in a way that makes you happy and have found a term that you like and that makes sense. And also thanks for putting in the effort/taking the risk to make this to help educate folks. I only know a couple of NB folks so hearing stories like this helps me understand it on more than just a theoretical level, if that makes sense.
Two word: Two genders. Everything other is a mental illness
You have amazing tastes when it comes to clothing, goodbye
As you pointed, gender is sociological and psicological. For biology, it's sex. So the thing you would have to say against ppl pointing that there are only two genders is that the term is sex and there aren't just to sexes. But the thing is that 99,95 per cent of the time, there are.  About the argument that the term gender queer is important to be clamed due to advocacy against discrimination, I want you to consider that most of people using thoses terms about non-binarity are claming that a stereotype is what makes you a man or a woman. And that is sexist. They are also defending that we should erase female reproduction terms for them to feel included. So claming this term makes you seem like one of thoses people who advocate that. I don't see how the term "feminine man" is derogatory.
Man, I remember when I came out to my sister and her bf as pansexual. While I was trying to explain to her what that is, the bf looked it up on his phone and somehow got the definition of asexual and then mocked me for being an attack helicopter. god.
Drinking your taxes and paying your scotch... good idea
H O T D O G     B I O L O G Y
I love you so much, comrade.
"There's nothing less funny that self-respect."  Well that was a dangerously relatable quote.
You dont bang dudes...ohh no
God, TERFs are horrible.
Yo, willing to share some of that raw ether?
This is one of the best videos I've seen on the matter. I'll be sure to share it with people who are curious about how I define myself.
1. Not going to stop being inspired. 2. Thank you for sharing, your pain wasn't funny.
The hotdogs had me laugh crying, thanks
"like a gay" (:
That doll in the background.
First of all, that top is fucking cute.   Second of all, I feel like even if you don't believe in nonbinary, it's just respectful to use proper pronouns.  I've heard a lot of arguments saying they shouldn't have to change their speech for others feelings. But I honestly don't care about changing my wording if it means making someone not feel like shit. It's not that hard. I've called one friend they from the day I met them because I picked up on some more obvious hints they preferred they. (They never gendered themselves, they called themselves kid rather than gal or guy, it was in their secret insta bio, etc.) This was when I was in my beginning moments head first into the only 2 genders belief. Even then I still respected my friend enough to call them their preferred pronouns because it's not that hard, and if I did misgender them, they were super chill.  But I learned a lot of this with exposure to binary trans people. I saw how some of them reacted to being misgendered, having to say their dead name, etc. And that made me realize how important identity is to people.
watching this back, it  kind of looks like your struggles of coming to terms with transitioning, but it's very interesting and by the end it kind of makes me question whether genderqueer is truly a thing, but I don't mind them, so bring all the genderqueer stuff tbh as long as you're good with yourself, i'm good
Even before watching this, I actually thought you were really good at shifting and changing between genders. And if you want to be called both randomly, that's fine.   I kind of feel the same way although I hesitate to pin a specific label on me.   I don't know if the reason I don't always feel comfortable being a woman is because of negative experiences with the label or if I am actually gender queer or just have an obsession with cross dressing. I think it would be great to be both though and as much as I love being a woman, sometimes I hate having to fill in gender on forms.
was this awakening?
Using the grosse fuge for this topic is just perfect
i loooooove your voice. like..loooooove it. and this video was entertaining and opened up my mind in the way it was delivered. humans truly are complex creatures so who am i to deny that. i myself identify as asexual. you have a new subscriber. cheers.
As a chinese speaking individual, I think english should just loan our 3rd person non-gender pronoun.  You guys have already taken kowtow, rickshaw and boba. Why not take the one that's more utilitarian? I mean, it's just "Ta". He, she, ta. See? Not that hard.
the red light on your hair triggers me
So... was this entire video invalidated by the fact you are actually trans?
but what about the suicide thing in the transcomunity
You mistake personality with gender. You can be femenine, flamboyant, 'coquette', you can like to have your nails done. Nothing of this changes the fact that you're a male.
You're so hot... I know you transitioned since then (just discovered the channel) but you've been so attractive in all stages 😘
The doll confuses me.. Nice voice and kind of humor ^^
I see non binarys, furrys and religious as the same thing bit loonie but totally acceptable (except when their getting on my nerves)
3:42 Finally someone mentions bigender! Thanks for that and this whole thing!
hi ContraPoints!! i love your thoughtful content and unique perspective on so many social issues. and i discovered you from your incel vid and pretty much binge-watched you from there. i think on this piece, an interesting point of view to consider is almost a "marxist" point of view on gender. sure sex matters when you go to the doctor or compete in the UFC, but gender is almost entirely a form of oppression. saying dresses or trucks or certain voice patterns align  with a certain gender (not bio.sex) is almost always a way of oppressing people. in the same way a marxist might say "class" is an oppressive fiction, might we see gender as the same thing? an idea imposed by the bourgeoisie of sex, usually straight white men, as a way to keep people like us down? shouldn't we say about gender what marx says about class, and call all of it oppressive lies? i mean without gender wouldn't we all just be who we are?
I just thought I'd let you I think you're cute. I'm overweight so I know validation is important.
i love you jfc
Thank you for this. I'm also genderqueer/non-binary (though I'm on the agender side of things) so I found this so affirming 💜
I'd be interested to hear ContraPoints revisit this topic, now that they identify as a transwoman. Does she still feel that she's genderqueer,  or perhaps gender fluid, or maybe that particular identification was just a necessary stepping stone to accept herself as transgender.
I don't identify as human. Fite me!
So, I just found your channel. I watched your video on incels first, and this one second. It was really fascinating to see the profound transition you have made in the intervening months, and I don't just mean physically. (Though it is also profound. Your videos, the incel one in particular, have been coming up on my feed for a week or so now, and even watching the first part of that video up until you referenced that you are trans, I didn't realize you were.)   I really mean the transition of uncertainty of self into confidence, of shaky conviction into pride. It's a powerful and very intimate thing to see. Having so much of yourself on display to the world must be scary, but I guess maybe empowering in a way, as well. This video and the one on incels are very different in style and in tone, but both are very good and were very meaningful to watch.   I sometimes wonder how people find the courage to be so real in such a public space, but I'm always grateful some people do. Thank you for sharing. I greatly look forward to your future videos.
These videos are so fascinating and insightful, both in their context and in themselves. Please never take them down. You are amazing.
#1) Shut that damn closet door. That doll is creeping me the fuck out. #2) So, as a CIS man, I have no chance of slipping my tongue down your throat?
It means you're mentally ill.    Not that you should be ashamed of being mentally ill.
I was looking forward to you talking about the *Suffrage Flag* since you used it on your thumbnail for this....  I'm...... kinda.....tempted to call appropriation.... women literally died for those colours.... what are you doing with them?
My objection is basically objection 3, and I read that link you provided, except I didn’t like anything the thee had to say except the various Germaine Greer quotes they said they disagreed with
That sausage part had me in tears. Can't remember when a youtube video had me laughing that hard. Don't know what that says about me, though ...
I am so confused. From what I am gathering, people are just using gender terms to describe their personality. I don't feel like a woman I feel like a person. I have many masculine and feminine traits, but I don't think that would make me agender or non-binary. This whole concept is just baffling to me, and I cant wrap my brain around it.
Dude, you're the first Genderqueer I like. And it's about rainbow flag. You don't wear that shit. Damn, that flag is so annoying. Liked your video and everything that A272 943B said in a comment bellow, except for Sargon.  Keep up with the good work girl!
I worry that my gender fluidity is either a desire to be a special snowflake, a result of mental instability, or a weird sexual deviance. I may never accept it as just being who I am. And that kinda bums me out.
Noticed the doll a few minutes in. Convinced myself it was added when I noticed it. Scrubbed back and saw it was there the whole time! It was scary.
<3
Best intro ever.
Hahahaha there is a doll behind you. It shocked the atheism out of me.
There are only two genders? There are only mammals, reptiles, birds, fish and insects? Then what the hell is THIS? *image of a metrosexual platypus*
That doll though. It creeps me out 😱
Bitch, you are so fabulous. Even though you don't bang dudes, and I don't bang dudes, if you did bang dudes I would be the first in line. You destroyed my soul with cognitive dissonance in this video. Calling nonbinary "agender" made me feel like the asshole I always knew I was. I wish we had more motherfuckers like you who could describe this shit in palatable ways. When I'm no longer a pauper I'll toss you a few shillings. Then I'll toss your salad.
I love that shirt, I really want one. You have an awesome style in general!
Trash
There are not more than 2 genders you can dress and act as you wish your problem. People lose jobs and everything bc they won't call you xzi or what ever or today he and tomorrow .
You look like you have XY chromosomes.
Another entertaining and educational video.  I'm gay and I directly support (the computers of) our LGBT center.  While supportive of the T (and not listed Q), I didn't fully understand it.  I still don't and never will.  But I have a much better understanding of it now, so thanks for that.  That said, would you agree that Google (and others) offering 32 (or possibly more) options for gender identification on forms is possibly too much?  Is it reasonable to limit it to maybe 8 (or 16, etc.) and also include "other."   I'm not suggesting people be limited to only x number of options to describe themselves, but for the purpose of business forms and operations, isn't 32 (from the previous 2 of M/F) a bit problematic?
Gender is a construct TEAR IT APART
3:26. Wow. And in real time. A magic moment. <3
What a lot of people forget to mention when talking about this topic is that it's also a scientific fact that there's a natural Midway point between genders called being a hermaphrodite. If people are fine with transitioning between man and woman then why aren't they okay with people transitioning to a hermaphrodite?
All foetus are women first lol. Also everyone has male and female traits, and a perfect male or a perfect female, in the ideal sense of the word, have never even existed IMO. So to me it's just a matter of personal liberty, be whoever you want to be as long as you're not judging me for who I want to be.  As someone from India with a very small gender identity movement I'm not very conversant with the language and sometimes nuances of it. Please correct me if that is so, id really appreciate it. I value conversations more than google.
Hmmm...6'+, wide shoulders, narrow waist, lovely, wears clothes well...ever considered a career as a fashion model?
Beautiful outfit.
I was already bery aware of the trans and non binary community and their struggles but you made a few points I hadn't thought of or been confronted with. Thanks for that, you freak! ;)
That top and your hair are GORGEOUS here! And all of the crazy psychos online are a biiig part of the reason I don't even bother explaining why I'm genderqueer. It's like their brains just don't have the capacity to understand that my gender is "Meh 🤷🏻‍♀️ Call me Daddy, call me Ma'am, I don't even care. I'm just me."
You’d better eat that food don’t waste it reeeee
I want ppl to be happy, but this non binary stuff is absurd, in fact MOST of the SJW stuff is absurd, just because ppl voted for trump doesn’t make them racist or sexist or anything. Stop assuming they’re intolerant.
i’ve been watching your videos nonstop for the past week... you’re fuckin’ amazing
I think it's too bad that she thought she couldn't identify as a woman because she'd have to try to pass or that she'd have to change things she likes about herself. Obviously she has moved past this but it makes me sad to hear. A woman doesn't need to have any certain kind of body to be a woman. My girlfriend doesn't plan on having any kind of surgery any time soon. She let's her facial hair grow out sometimes and has told me on multiple occasions that with hrt she has transitioned enough for herself even though she doesn't pass and a lot of people wouldn't consider her a woman "yet" because of it. She has things she does want to change, like how she struggles with vocal training but that's personal to her. TBH a trans woman doesn't even need to medically transition at all if she doesn't want to. I know of some who haven't changed the way they present themselves at all. If this is getting in the way of anyone calling themselves a woman I think that is a shame.
I am an MWMLW. Incredibly lonely. No support groups or understanding at all. Help.
You are an incredibly inspiring person!
Fuck that doll is creepy
Chinese language has different gender pronouns for he, she and it. They write differently but sound exactly the same - TA, first tone.
im afraid to call myself genderqueer because uhhh it's a form of identity which has to do with the reactions of others (bc it utilises societal constructs of gender? may b) and i try to only define myself on intentions and the life circumstances which my initiative directs. im uncomfortable when people compliment me, kinda.. am i getting the wrong end of the stick?
BLESS THIS VIDEO
I like you the way you are so far - I dont mind the humor BUT looking at the issue like race* the role models like Nipsy Russell who stayed classy and rejected the stereotype humor was cool. But he was very positive about the low brow humor and the successful actors who did the Comedy Stereotypes   ---basucally a role model for both being true to self and respectful and accepting of others <3   Been sharing your videos a bit.  Screenshoting some of the diagrams.   In general Lables are evil
"The left can't meme!" he jokes, as he hilariously identifies as 'attack helicopter'.
I still want to bang you.... I need to stop writing these comments but I just found you and I think I'm in love. Also, I'm happy that you're happy and finding out who you  are.
Im sorry if someone already commented this but Chinese pronouns are gendered. They are pronounced the same but written differently. 他 and 她.
@8:50  'Nu-ren' & 'Nan-ren' are Man and Woman in Mandarin...?     Couple thoughts you inspired:  (First and foremost,  I appreciate your relatively elevated level of reasoning per these subjects.) You were sharing your history/feelings at one point, which is RARELY a negative thing, but then redirected...  @6:10  The fact that you outright admit you're disgusted by yourself concerned me most...  I am curious what you did that you haven't forgiven yourself for prior to the becoming 'genderqueer'...or perhaps something someone (likely a man) did to you?  I know self hate when I see it and I have had some extraordinary failures in my life, which made me question everything, including if I was the person I thought I was..   If you really want to get down to it, we are all just collections of electrical activity between neurons and synapse in the brain.  The neocortex is a self evaluating phenomenon and its not outlandish to think some aren't going to handle it well, let alone be raised/taught the tools to mentally moderate the neurological disconnect between mind and body... We all, individually, need therapeutic outlets, but too many believe buying a new car, shoes, or from what I can see, 'gender', is the way to mask and/or solve these destructive insecurities...    When its a heart attack, we hire a professional, and so should we when it comes to the foundation of our working coincidence.  Therapy is effective because you realize how much you not only don't know, but can't know due to the inherent bias of human perspective.. Stability is paramount in a world of external threats, find purpose beyond "who you are", only then you will discover "who you are".     Thanks!
You are beautiful maybe a little androgynous but so did a lot of female models.
I myself have conseidered me as genderqueer, but also dont feel that these label as for me. And aside this i'm in relationship with a "normal" woman and manager to role as a regular white guy. Even cut my hair (whorst part). I think you could may consider genderfuck, at least for your on videos character.
1:45 This!!!
It's amazing how much I can genuinely enjoy your content while also disagreeing with so much of it.
So this might just be the ramblings of a drug addled neive fool, but shouldn't we strive to abolish gender labels rather than inventing new ones? First of all, male and female characteristics outside of medical sex characteristics are just social constructs anyway. Second, I don't think anyone truly fits into the "male" and "female" roles society assigns with 100% accuracy all the time. If they did society would fail to function. Therefore, rather increasing the number of boxes to shove people in, shouldn't we just get rid of boxes all together? Doesn't saying "I fall outside societal gender expectations" VALIDATE that there are concrete male and female characteristics and roles?   If you are afraid of global warming, Eat crickets to save the world!
well. and here we are
♥♥♥♥♥♥♥♥♥♥♥
I'm on a re-watch kick of all your videos, because I love all your content. When you mention your hesitation to transition, my heart broke for you. You're amazing, Natalie! Thank you for your integrity and courage!
I'm so glad I've discovered this channel.  You're just a wonderful person, really.
at 8:52 you say that chinese has no gendered pronouns. This isn’t exactly true 1) Chinese is a group of languages 2) the form of Chinese I have knowledge in is Mandarin which does have two pronouns, they’re just pronounced the same way. They’re tā 他 and tā 她 , the first meaning he and the second meaning she.   There are languages with no gender pronouns like Finnish which uses “hän” for both he and she. Although this isn’t really used as much as their other pronoun “se” which directly translates to “it” but is used in everyday speech to mean he/she/it. They only have hän after they were christianised and people thought they needed a new pronoun to call god because calling god “it” would’ve been disrespectful at the time
What I really don't get is this: why aren't there heterosexual non-binary people then?  I'm serious I'd like some examples if they exist. Cause otherwise it seems to me like  some people are living mixing their (gay) prefences with the concept of gender. Mah!
I can stare into the middle distance a lot over stuff like "well how can you really be trans if you don't have much dysphoria" and the need for validation esp when you don't neatly fall into the narrative that gets told a lot of 'well I was always this other gender and felt intense discomfort about being misgendered.'  I eventually settled on bigender for myself but besides for days I want an on off switch for my breasts ( because ofc things couldn't be easy as always wanting them or not), I tend to not care what pronouns people use for me and vary what my gender performance is day to day while also going "yeah no I'm always a boy and a girl"  And like I didn't even think to start reflecting on my gender until the end of high school. Was that because I was a tomboy growing up, was it me honestly not being trans until then, was it me not knowing that was a thing but quickly going "oh that sounds more like me now that I know it's a thing vs there just being mtf and ftm people?"  Who the fuck actually know. When I'm not stuck on existential dread I guess it's nice to actually have some vocabulary to explain myself to other people.
very enlightening video, i was assigned female at birth but seem to experience a sort of "mirrored" sense of gender to you (i.e kinda both, kinda dont care, enjoy "crossdressing" although when females dress as males its not considered such a big deal? which i kind of dont appreciate because my clothes and fashionable expression mean an awful lot to me)
6:28 "STOP BEING INSPIRED" Well Buhoo!! Too late, I'm already inspired by you.
"You are the Man" or "You have brass balls" seem out of place, so I will just say how much I admire you. I'm 54 and the product of a conservative environment but in a freer world, I would have been a lot like you (and I haven't given up)
Love your channel, i like you as a person, but this is one of the videos i disliked. Contrary to what you may think, you didn't provide solid proof for any of your points. And since you can't really oppose the argument that there are only 2 types of reproductive organs, you decided to joke about it with hotdogs instead... This is not an argument...  I am sorry, gender is not a social construct, it is a biological truth. There are only 2 genders in humans and that's that. I can understand that some people may feel disphoria or have some other health issues that blur the lines between the genders, but this does not change the reality that the genders are 2. Sorry.
LOL, You could've actually electrocute yourself with that hotdog in the outlet. Would have got a good jolt and cooked the dog all at once. Be careful.
That... Fucked up... PIXEL
Ive counted maybe 3 people so far that have "corrected" (called someone else along the lines of an asshole) someone else (including me) of using the "he"  pronoun for contra.  There is still so much confusion about the correct pronoun usage even after this video was posted.  I've been using he/she/contra and ppl still give me shit for it.  Please someone correct me if I am wrong... Im pretty sure contra really doesn't mind being called he/she.
In chinese, when you speak, there are no gendered pronouns.  HOWEVER, when you are writing, the word is written differently for males and females.
I have to say, I LOVE your music choices! How many other youtubers use Groß fuge as background music???
I've never found a youtuber who I've related to more. I'm so happy because I've had such hard time articulating my feelings with so much negativity around. Thank you so much for making videos
Total egg mode.  Also your voice was quite feminine already.
Sorry for all of my comments, just discovering your channel, and just want to say that you are fucking awesome and one of my favorite YouTubers now
you're fantastic and I love this video!
Honestly, I used to be one of those people that was like “none of this is real!!!!11111!!!” If you go through my comment history somehow, you might even see that. But your delivery and way of presenting information in a comedic while still feeding me the information in a digestible way, you have me completely convinced.
Waiting for the doll to move
I like your voice.
Absolutely loving your top.
Rip off of how to basic. Your nails are too fabulous and your sounds are off
It was a phase.   Since now you are trans
I’ve been watching back some of her vids from the most recent to older and I’m shocked at how much her lived experience at this point mirrors my own. like almost to a T. Even though nat has come to conclude that she’s a woman , I really appreciate that she made this video.
You're a man.
Also, omg I like you. You earned a sub~
THAT DOLL IS SCARY
You are very cute! That said, my first argument against "there are only 2 genders" is very basic, babies are sometimes born with both and female, or no genitalia at all.
okay got it gender queer = non binary , but even if gender = the sex u identify as apposed to it's original meaning gender = sex . How can u have no gender as is claimed in this video. You don't identify as male or identify as female ? , do u identify as human ? because there are no other types of humans .
The doll! IT IS WATCHING ME
These are like video essays I love the format.
This is such a great video
Bullshit.
i fucking love you oh my god
I L-O-V-E THIS
It means I’m very privileged and I want people’s attention desperately
objection 1 is a pretty good objection, but its like those shut up and enjoy the music t shirts, you see people arguing about genres and that one fuck boy with the 100 likes and the shut up enjoy the music comment bitch i want to know what the thing im listening to is called so i can google up more stuff like it
Cool vid C.P. Very interesting way that you see things. I thought when you brought up the Doctor bit you would have spoken of Inter sex people. Since their argument doesn't even fit fully in the science.  (Yeah calling it the science as a joke. Long inside joke.) Still, funny and fun yet informative video. I my self m Just a T-girl in training. I only go into male form to pay bills. Cause got to have a job. Saving up for steps to get to ware I want to be.) But, I under stand some folks are Gender fluid or  Genderqueer. And that's cool. You do you. Can't wait to see your next video.
This is so goddamned real, yo.    (I'm not crying, you're crying.)
The doll in the background. You're sick and you know how to harass your anxiety ridden worshippers xD
So hey hi, im new to ur channel, i just watched this one single video, and it felt pretty honest, so imma stick around for a while. But man, that doll on the background sure is creepy! D: #CreepyDollisCreepy
What is the point of the concept of gender? In general
Nah. Gender is a grammatical category that applies to substantives, similar to e.g. animacy. :o)  I should probably add a smiley to that.
I needed this video.
I know this video is like more than a year old at this point, but I couldn’t think of a better place to leave these thoughts so here we go.   So something I’ve always struggled with is what masculine and feminine actually mean. Like to me, they should mean nothing and people should be able to be how they please when they aren’t hurting anyone. I know that in general (in my life experience specifically) masculine was supposed to mean like sports and toughness and stuff. Now I identify as a man, I use male pronouns, but I don’t identify with most if any “traditional” masculine traits. I’m pretty soft spoken, I believe in talking things through and being kind and trying to help people. And I love all kinds of different personalities, I find them all interesting in their own ways. I guess I’m saying all this to say, I don’t understand gender or why people people hold certain traits or qualities to either end of the spectrum. I don’t even think there is a spectrum. I don’t know. I’m weird. I just needed to put these very confusing thoughts somewhere possibly appropriate and see if I get any meaningful responses.
Barry motherfucking Lyndon
My bigender ass will have to rewatch this video a couple of times in case I do have to defend my own gender identity. Also, dude u r so smart ❤ (i know this is hella obv i am tryna compliment u). My bi ass can never get to your level of gender expression.
Amazing voice :P
Hey Contra,  Not sure if this is appropriate, or if you'll read this; Straight white male here, probably this is the third time I'm watching the video(subscriber and find your takes very interesting, to the point and most agreeable). and I'm just wondering, as someone whose never thought of myself as a sexual person(but has that drive like all others, sort of), I do not transcribe myself with any of the defined pronouns related to this subject or others. I don't really know how to describe where it is I'm coming from; like I said straight and male, not gay, trans or gender-queer, just your milquetoast quazi-normal, insanely shy person who can't perfectly navigate society or the social interactions easily, I've a personal life hampered by crippling public anxiety(most of the time I can't even write comments as an anonymous, as I edit this it's been over three hours and stressing on how and what I say will be perceived). Bad experiences with both sexes, but mostly women from a high school bullying perspective and an adult one because of the way I look, how I communicate, I still don't know why, which has resulted is some not so great, all around dysmorphia about my body and especially my face, it has also caused aspects in how I relate to women, not as a whole but individually, to be a little skewed. to that, maybe you or others have felt like this. Is there some term or idea or pronoun for this, the absence of sexual tendencies, yet still having them.
i wasted 3% battary watching this
objection 3 is why po-mo and marxist can cowork?
dude ... that doll is freaking me out O_O
Idk if you'll read my comment but I feel like proliferation and exploration of gender pronouns is important and good for destroying gender norms. I think we'll hit a point where masculinity and femininity and nonbinarism will because so widespread that it'll make gender to complicated to care about. Gender has  been about perscriptive presentation for too long and I think it will lead to a future of people who have no "norms" on how to act and just act as themselves and express themselves with no prescriptive coding. Then they can look at the swath of pronouns and identities as a shorthand for what they might like and go with what feels best. It's not silly and to those that think that it is ENFORCING gender norms to use demi girl and nonbinary and all that, I feel like the ultimate end game is just to give freedom of choice to everyone in regards to how they feel and present without judgement, harm, or job restriction
Nah, dude.  Not buying it.
i love this video so much aaa
i need to find a way to be a Professional Weirdo like you 💗
Your hair is really pretty (if it’s not a wig)
This is all a little heady since it's all happening in 24 hours, but I'm fascinated by this channel in a way that only partly can be justified by my Male ability to find images hot by themselves (by which I mean, hey there, you're pretty :) ),  but also because of your writing style, use of lighting and content.  But also because you're both smart and clearly have the ability to think critically, and really, what does it say about me or the world that I find that specifically attractive.  Anyway, I also seem to be viewing this channel in reverse chronological order, which is itself interesting (and the thought of which may make you cringe) but its fascinating to see you grow and adapt to your gender/gender expression at the time, and despite the humility you show in this video, let me make this clear, for people like me who are somewhere in their lives which this particular video makes tremendous sense, YOU ARE ADMIRABLE, and YOU ARE INSPIRING, and can I meet you at yours for a cup of coffee?
the word gender is used for too many things tbh I think it would be better to just call it personal identity it would cut out all the confusion most people have
There’s nothing to argue about honestly, he only needs one, and uh... if it’s “sexual” it’s understandable if that was for one person... and well, you guys being there is like studying to be male and female? Which is completely nonsense, so don’t make up new terms... it’s unnecessary.
I love your channel!
Face it. You're a transvestite in a nutshell.
That hotdog scene was way too explicit
I think I can understand Agender, after all, machines can be intelligent, and they have no gender, even if we acoplate a dildo on one of them. I can see how that could also apply to humans, if we consider one's mind to be kind of like software. But the other ones sound a little stupid, specially the ones which are both female and male at once.
These terms are pretty new so I'm glad to have someone finally try to explain these concepts to me. I mean I'm quite convinced that when it comes to humans biological sex is pretty binary with very few nebulous exceptions but I am willing to believe that people have problems with how they interact socially with the concept of being male or female. As such it's nice that you're actually reaching out to your audience to explain these issues though at this point (part way through the video) I am still a bit confused and I really don't like the way using the word "they" sounds in English but you seem like a nice "freakish hybrid" to me. Good luck with your future endeavors (this near the end of the video) and where your YouTube career is concerned I might "tune in" occasionally. again from the bottom of my "cis scum" heart thank you.😁
As a nazi (im really into marching, geometric symmetry, ethically based holiday camps and torches) im fed up with the constant bullying i recieve from progressives. Considering the emphasis they place on tolerance they quite unfairly bully me cause me to break down in tears much of the time
This is my honest opinion, in no way looking to offend anyone. One can have any sexual inclination imaginable. One can like to fuck men who dress up as dogs. One can have any fashion taste imaginable. One can like to dress up as a dog. But there can be only two genders because there are only two biological sexes from which we can analyze cultural patterns. So why instead of coming up with names for genders, wich don't describe any sexes, people don't come up with different names for sexual inclinations and fashion tastes? And this doesn't have anything to do with gender dysphoria (which should be called sex dysphoria) in which the brain is not in sync with it's body. Those people need help, but even with treatment, unless they can change their DNA, they will not be the opposite sex.
i see a lot of my own 'gender journey' in what you describe here. i'm not out to everyone yet but at least with a few trusted people i identify as genderfluid now and accepting and exploring that has been absolutely amazing for my self-esteem and identity
Hahahaha
I don’t think this would be such a problem if we just let people be themselves. Even though dysmorphia is a horrible thing to deal with and I will never be one to claim that it’s made up, I feel like if we didn’t have such black and white descriptions, then we wouldn’t have to deal with the drama that comes with it. I’m a very masculine female. I was always mistaken for a boy before my boobs came in . It made me really sad at the time because I just didn’t feel like other girls. I’m sure this isn’t dysmorphia, but a lot of people don’t fit in with one or the other. The trans issue is in your head. That’s why I’ll never get it. It’s not for me to get though. I still respect pronouns and I only call people their preferred names. I have respect for them, but I just wish it wasn’t such a thing.  I know I’m being insensitive though
He she is kinda hot
i disagree with your beliefs and fail to understand and empathize with how you feel and experience life but i can't really not watch the content you present  you have an interesting way of expressing yourself and in all honesty, i find your eyes very alluring and fascinating to look at. hope you keep existing and have nice and profound experiences in life  good journey
I only started watching your videos yesterday, but it's hard not to be inspired by you.
I think you actually look quite normal and comfortable with the way you look, nothing weird at all.
Thanks for clarifying all that. I have always been behind the times a little and I was confused. BTW your videos are hilarious!
Do 10 situps everytime you hear gender. No gym from the next day
Also yas queen go off about the nebulousness of biological Sex, people are born with different chromosomes all the time, estrogen and testosterone come in plants and food, we can literally consume things to create these, anatomy can be disfigured or dysfunctional. Is a woman a person with such and such chromosomes and such and such anatomy. What if a person was born with a dysfunctional penis but functional ovaries? For some people, this isn't even a thought, but for people with people in their family and life who aren't ashamed of these things and hide them, it's the reality.   Coming from someone with doctors in the family, people are constantly born with "defects" that we might as well not even call them defects, because parents constantly choose to ignore and hide information about their childs actual biology from them. It's still -uncommon- but the number of babies born (not a new thing btw researched for a while now) with anatomy of both sexes, and the decision to create the most passing sex of the child is a very happening thing.   My science parents really wanted me to not be ignorant on false truths, girls can be born with a vagina that looks like a dick, be born with faux testes. Like... biology is not a tool of god, it is random just like everything else that is ruled by nature.
Woahow0pwooaohwahawhwaohaw at that ytdude saying trans pronouns aren't a thing, when he shoulda put up a picture of people saying they identify as a specific character of a tv show in a au universe where they are an anthropomorphic animal.   Like, he literally pulled up the T in the LGBTQI.
I'm late to the party, but this is all super relevant to me now. I've had on an off gender dysphoria for a long time, and it's so confusing. Sometimes I feel like I should be a woman, sometimes I am totally confident in my masculinity. It's nice to see a video somewhere on YouTube of someone talking about this honestly, and not just denigrating the concept because it's trendy.
Do whatever the fuck you want. Just don't get all pissed or violent when i call you him/her or whatever you want to be called before i even know you.
I love your channel and I really appreciate your videos. BUT - I'm pretty sure mandarin does, to a very small extent, have gendered pronouns. The pronouns are homophones but the written characters are different, they have a different part or "radical" which is also the character for "man" or "women". 他，她，女 checkitout http://blog.tutorming.com/mandarin-chinese-learning-tips/gender-pronouns-ta-in-chinese
you're dope, I love you
Thank you
Someone please explain them
the doll in the background ❤️❤️❤️
the most terrifying and disturbing part of this video is THAT DOLL. you rock and youre funny as hell. keep it up
Pfft, you're beautiful queen. ❤❤❤❤
I'm a cis scum! :D
Of course u are 🤪
This is me, but I can't bring myself to put the work in to look half as good as you, so fuck it, plaid shirts, jeans and hair everywhere until I'm buried. #lazygenderqueerproblems
Hate to break the news but there are gender pronouns in Chinese. They are just pronounced the same. Chinese culture is actually pretty traditional and sexist. I like your vids. Also not trying to step on your point, but wanna be accurate here
As an organism evolves and becomes more complex, you don’t know the ways in which it will express itself. We thought the future would be flying cars... It’s Caitlyn Jenner.
This video makes me hungry for a hotdog.
There are gendered pronouns in Chinese.
<3
Wow boxxy went edgelord
there are only two genders  that which i would stick my peepee in and that which i would not  I would stick my peepee in contrapoints  I would NOT stick my peepee in shoe on head. i kinda don't want VD thank you
I think you're beautiful, funny and too smart for your own good and I'd like to kiss you on the forehead and give you a beer.
I like the freakish hybrid aspect.
You’re really beautiful
I love this video. Thanks so much! There really needs to be more content like this :) But also why is there a scary doll in your closet?
I really feel that the term 'they' should also apply to God or to Gods, its weird how God is usually a guy.
So there's two sexes, but how much you conform to the norms of your sex is individual. Isn't that enough? Do we really need words to specify exactly where on that spectrum you think you are? Literally no one should give a shit, that would be progress.
Thank you for this! This video came up at the best time an is helping me on my own journey of self and gender discovery as a gender non-binary person.
Estonian (also Finnish) has no gender in the language, and as a result we tend to accidentally misgender everyone, when speaking English. EVERYONE. Even our own mothers. Haha.
Natalie is like an archangel. They transcend such a frail concept as gender. Deal with it.
Reminded me of Hannah's Nenete
That was a pretty good sarabande remix, though I feel like a class traitor for recognising it immediately.
You know, Christiany sounds an awful lot like an individual person's gender identiy.  "Is Christ God dressed like a human?  An even mix of human and God?  Both human and God at the same time?  God who became human but then became God again?"
Fucking Mood™
Chinese has gender pronouns: see 她 (she - ta) and 他 (he - ta)
Thanks for the explanation! I really like your videos. They are always on point and very informative.  I say just be who you wanna be and if people don't like that then to hell with them!  Oh and I do like your voice. Don't try to change it.  :-)
Watching this late, but should I be worried about feeling like this? I don't feel comfortable in my body, and I feel the same way as you about personal pronouns for myself... nah, I'll protect my shell, I mean ignore these uncomfortable feelings as long as possible...
God I fucking love herimhimerherimhim
WHAT THE FUCK IS THAT DOLL IN THE FUCKING BACKGROUND IT'S TERRIFYING!
You're a gay crossdresser. That requires no explanation 👍
i think you are lovely the way you are.
I can't rly add anything to the 'nb' part of the discussion, but I like how this is not the sanitized everything-is-clear-and-obvious tumblr take rife with essentialism and purity culture, but like real and unabashed.  Even as a 'typical' woman who has the privilege not to care too much about this sort of thing, I feel that if you take my freakish dark urges away you've basically napped my humanity.
As a pretty young genderqueer this was really nice to watch. Thank you Nat you're lovely <3
I identfy as a attacking helicopter
Woops, in what degeneracy did I stumble here. Better get the hell out while I can before my brain is turned into mush.
Being nonbinary is impossible unless you are born without genitalia or with both. Anyone else is just guessing and copying what they see. You may be a guy who feels like being pretty, that's ok but that doesn't make you female. Mainly because no man born with testicles can ever know what a female actually feels, due to the lack of oestrogen and 1600 other differences between males and females. What they can do is guess and reenact what they observe. Often also when trans people feel female, they exaggerate clothing and behaviour, often wearing stripper clothes or having their breast and hips enlarged, none of which is actually female but only what males would consider female.  I know, I am a female and I can go from pretty goth to swearing beer drinking nuisance. Women don't always behave like women, especially not when they amongst their own. But trans people don't see that, they think feeling female involves dresses, make up and giggling. There is so much more to being male or female than looks and behaviour, something nobody of the opposite sex will ever truly understand. Being genderqueer IMO is just wanting to emulate something you like. Good luck and all the best [you look pretty] but it's just having your cake and eat it, you are still a male.
I’m not sorry let’s get that out. This is what’s wrong with our society now. With the transgender community being excepted now in society we now have this too. I can see it now there will no longer be a women’s section or male section of clothing but all clothing made the same with no label. Then will come all sports coed there will no longer be a mans team or women’s team. So now all our feminist are going to be out raged because they are going to lose all rights that they feel entitled to because now society has two on Weibo everybody so there will no longer be in exception of male or female anywhere this will ultimately crash our society as there will always be a group that feels left out or not excepted. I see this as a failure to our society
Ok honestly I like your personality but I disagree with you.
I might come off as a hater, but I'm not, I'm honestly open for discussion and think it's more productive to have different points of view in the comments rather than just people who are naturally going to agree with most the things you say because they follow you.  So to me yes, there are only two genders and the whole idea of queerism or whatever it's called is pretty stupid.  I have two main points about this:  First of all, you have a very well defined phisical gender, aka sex. For instance, you're male. If that doesn't match your mental gender then that's a clear anomaly. Now, why are we supposed to assume that the mental gender, something aethereal and arguable is right, while the phisical, tangible, sex is wrong? If a trans has the body of a man, but the mind of a woman, what sense does it make to assume that his mind is right in wanting to change his body, rather than the other way around?  My second point is that even if I can accept the idea of gender being on a spectrum, it's pretty pointless because men and women are not that different. If we compare it to the light spectrum, it feels like male and female would be at the ends of the visible light, which is a very small portion of all light, meaning they're very close to each other. The main differences between men and women are phisical, even some emotional differences depend on hormones. So to me all this intragender stuff comes off as snowflakes wanting to feel special. How can you feel any difference in your gender when men and women, people on the opposite sides of the spectrum don't feel that different?  With all this said I truly appreciated the video, it was very informative and mature.
I just discovered your channel because of Lindsay Ellis and I love you?
You are far more inspiring than you give yourself credit for
oooooo your voice and accent reminds me of Winona Ryder!
thank u very much, I'm from Brazil and didn't find anything about "genderqueer" in portuguese, u helped me a lot
2:10 is perfect
I recommend y'all google the "Genderbread Person" infographic for further illustration of the practical inner and outer dimensions of the gender concept. It's a bit convoluted but also quite the smart synopsis.
I wish y'all would read de Beauvoir and understand the concept of gender roles. Gender dysphoria is a real thing. But tumblr teens telling us that they are "gender fluid" - because sometimes they feel so girly and shy and like to wear pink dresses and sometimes they feel so manly and strong and want to wear jeans - make me cringe. They are just reproducing gender stereotypes and don't even realize it.
This is such a great video, thanks for helping me to understand. I hope it reaches even just a few of the people who need it most.
Didnt she just come out as trans?
Nice dress
It is so important to maintain a sense of humour. I’m really trying not to be inspired but no promises.
I loved your video and your so funny and attractive.
In hebrew genderqueer peole usually choose to use mixed pronouns bec we don't have a gender neutral pronoun, so we just switch it up👌❤
Anyone else really creeped out by that doll in the closet?
Wow, this was very much how I felt pre transition. It took a good push to make that leap. Life & how I view myself has changed. I'm definitely a lot more comfortable.
Just a quick FYI, Chinese does have gendered pronouns. The written characters are different for he, she and it, and that even carries over to gendered they. However, while speaking the pronouns sound the same. Love the video!
Why do you use that tinyass mirror to apply make-up? I don’t know about that...
Found your channel from a lot of positive talk from other channels and friends. Not only were your ideologies, experiences, and humor shockingly similar to my own, but your presentation was my aspiration. Now with your admission in this video, it's very much like watching a successful version of myself. (Which as a vain person delights me.) So just saying thank you for your content and being a palatable translator of "leftist ideology" and answering the what it would look like if I had become a youtube personality. Wish you all the best and thank you for sharing yourself with us.
Is your background light the genderqueer flag?
Idk why it makes me so happy you started the index at -1
Labels are weird. Also All those are makeup just like the entire language is made up.  I think the issue is just misunderstanding, both sides are hating each other over just labels. I mean I know you're feeling whatever but just choosing 10000 labels confuses everyone, How about we just use like they and stop caring? I mean I don't understand at all how being non binary is like but I mean screw it who cares?! Half of these issues are not scientific or anything they're purely the dumbness of the English language having 2 pronouns instead of having just one.  But again I'm a stupid dumb teenager who doesn't know anything so yeah i donno
You don't need to beg the gatekeepers for a hormone-tweak: pueraria mirifica really is a powerful phyto-oestrogen. Silky.
And here, due to good old-fashioned confirmation bias, I'm quite glad I subscribed to your channel (gender is far more interesting than politics will ever be).
I just watched your most recent video your transition has been amazing to watch even if it has been in reverse. You do you girl.
I absolutely love this video especially how you aren’t yelling at a screen to prove your point. I started realizing who I was some time ago and got a lot of hate for it, I really started to question whether I was just wrong. But growing up I started to notice that I could do and be who I wanted to be. Now I have friends who at first questioned my sanity but began to come to an understanding and are now basically my family today.
Alright, here is my shitty hotdog biology argument. Well, first, I should make a semantics argument.  Gender is not the same thing as sex. Anyone who knows at least the rudiments of any Romance language should know this. And German speakers know that there are three genders, not two! OK, semantics over.  As for the biology argument, female hyenas, also bees, and clownfish, also amoebas.
I like you so much
F64 ;)
Who is that on guitar? It sounds like a sligtly sped-up Benitez. Oh, and thanks fir the great videos!
I don't care much about people's gender presentation unless I feel they're using it to score points in a political or social game of some sort. Or, if it turns out that their genetalia have come to be a significant concern of mine for purely personal reasons.
I fuckign love you contra! Big feels.
Having seen your newer work, the pick-up artist video and this one: in that order. Has shown me one thing clearly: i need to watch it all. The evolution of a view and (to an only slightly lesser extend) willingness to share is really interesting to me. (especially when it's a view (of the self) i'm not directly familiar with)
Contra, you are one of the most inspiring YouTubers on this site. I can't directly relate as genderqueer, I'm not trans, I'm not bi, pan, or gay; I'm actually a cis, straight, male so when I say you've inspired me after watching all of your videos (and yes I've seen ALL your videos) I mean that your honesty, intellect, sensitivity, humor and overall understanding, have touched me and restored my faith in this platform. You have helped me learn so much about the beauty in this world and the people in it (while also criticizing all the dumbasses and how much longer we have left to go). You are one of the beautiful people in my life and I love you. Keep being you.
I Like your stuff. I have learnt a lot from you
I love the allusions to Hunter S. Thompson scattered in your videos.
I love how sassy this is
How about using the pronoun 'hir' from the chaos magic current?
Hahahahah....”the gender I always knew I was”...NEITHER....hahahahahaha..... (yeah...actually it’s true). But, yeah, I didn’t hear the term non binary until I was 49....so fun life...I prefer people having trouble labeling my gender...bwahahahaha!
contrapoints needs to be an hbo show or something.
just call yourself "Hershey". It's funny...er  on "oh so many levels".
Awesome video. Most humans are light years behind science. Thanks for the education! I am impressed about how mature and educated you are on this. By the way, I think you are super hot and sexy!!
Bigender high five!!!  Thanks for recognizing my gender.  Even my autocorrect can't do that.
I have been pretty nasty about the gender discussion. I believed in transitioning but only two genders. I will chill out on the common folk. Anything medical or legal requiring gender expression to be reported are the only things where this stuff matters, anyway. Thanks for the great video
You have the best fashion!
First off you don't "drink" taxes you gently sip them in a smokey room with jazz playing in the background jeez
Just think back to your favorite early modern "Queen," David Hume. We can't postulate "identities" or essential attributes of subjective selves. Qualia is in a state of continual flux. The post-structuralists who so frequently defend the idea of other "genders" complain constantly about 'essentialism,' but the idea that we can have or be an "identity" sounds an awful lot like essentialism to me.   So there aren't "genders" at all, just feelings, inclinations, or if you prefer Humean language, "passions." You're a man because man is biological. If you have a penis, your morphological sex is male, if you have testicles, your gonadal sex is male, if you have XY chromosomes, your chromosomal sex is male, and all these things usually correspond with one another in the same person. You might feel feminine, and you might even be neurobiologically predisposed to feel that way due to androgen insensitivity or exposure to abnormal androgen levels in the womb, but you're physically a man.  That said, your sense of humor and intellect are both amazing (more proof you're a man, sorry) and I love your videos.
<3
You're still a "mayn", and always will be.  Otherwise, my gynandromorphilia and guydyke/girlfag-ness don't make sense. ;-)   We need terms to describe ourselves, and the foundation to build them is "The Binary".  Sex and gender are synonyms, and there are only two: male and female.  The fact that a wild variation exists,  or that it's sometimes difficult to classify, doesn't mean there are infinite genders.  It means there are infinite ways for the two genders to be manifested, IOW "gender expressions".  Think of the yin/yang symbol in the Taoist context.  Terms like "genderqueer" are an attempt to describe one's "gender expression" (You used that term once in your video, demonstrating that you grasped the concept, yet still managed to conflate expression with actual gender the rest of the time).  Some people use gender descriptors or labels as shortcuts to describe multiple dimensions of their sexuality (gender, gender expression, orientation, interests, preferences, etc.) all at once.  I understand why it's tempting to do that.  Those long Greek, scientific words are clumsy.
It took me a long time, way to long , to realize I was much like you or how you describe your feelings on your own gender at least. I always felt this abundance of both in my thoughts, even leaning towards fem in a lot of ways. I sort of tired leaning into both, trying to "choose one," but in the end found that I didn't want to part with either...and being the self-righteous asshole I am, I decided I didn't have to. It's nice to see I wasn't the only one however that's gone though a sort of "building process" of sorts to reach the Queer marker. Though even now I find it really hard sometimes to have the energy to shave, put on makeup and be brave in even somewhat fem clothing in public.
I’ve always supported LGBT community, but I would be lying if I wasn’t completely clear on the subject. This video was a great explanation , and I have definitely learned from it
Thats so sad shoeonhead is mentioned as one of the less informative examples. I get why but most of her stuff is fairly no nonsense and down to earth. I still love her though:)
The comments are much nicer than I expected, wow.  Anyhow, I'm nonbinary, more specifically agender though I usually just say nonbinary and anyone who actually gives a shit can ask for that specification. I like that bit about being a "political woman" because while it's not how I personally identify I understand that when people look at me they see tits and assume I'm a girl and treat me like one. I'd never heard that terminology before
uh,,, your pretty ! ...
i love your voice
You are so fucking awesome.
This was a lovely video! One of my very best friends is in a very similar position as you. You are definitely not alone.
At least in NY they acknowledge genderqueer, agender, and bigender if you go to urgent care (:
U are the cancer of the west
Thank you, I enjoyed that and learnt something (despite being cis scum!). It's great to stumble across channels of well produced content on subjects I know little about - very much the the positive side of Youtube.
Your uninspiringness is inspiring
The real How2Basic
OMG, the doll
I'm female.  Just because I sometimes like to watch basketball with my hand down my pants doesn't mean that I feel like I'm gender fluid. You seem like a nice person, but the creepy doll and the hot dog lost me.  Sorry.
Ohh, I thought genderqueer was an umbrella term for people who don't comfort the binary gender. It's nice to have that cleared up
I really don't give a damn about the gender pronoun "debate" nor do I care about this topic at all.
Can anyone give me the link to buy Natalie's dress (or something very similar)?  I need it!  I like Stuff.
You’re right JBP, watching too much porn isn’t good for the brain. So now I’m watching ContraPoints videos instead. Post-modern-neo-Marxist lobsters watch out (I want to toss Peterson’s sexy word salad).
So I'm a cis male. But could I call myself a 'Gender traitor'. 'Cause that sound f*cking awesome.
I just found out in 3 days 2 of my favourite youtubers are gender queer
I wish I'd found your channel sooner.  This is a fantastic primer on the nonbinary concept, something I'll definitely be passing around.   I feel like we've walked on some similar paths given what you've shared here.  I'll happily raise my glass to all my fellow freaks. (I also enjoy twisting words of hate into badges of pride, I'll raise a freak and a queer flag high)
8:27 I'm not going to go passing on male privilege just to be true to myself.   fucking ded
people in the comment section make me wanna jump off a bridge
how do i unsubscribe without subscribing first
I just cant help but think: so what? I am certainly not a transphobe (although some people will obviously think I am), but i allways think, what is all the fuzz about?  If you say gender is a purly social construct, i would disagree, but i would accept that it is partially a social construct and i think it ultimatly doesnt matter. My problem is, that I have the feeling a lot of people are out in the world trying to be offended. If someone wants me tell call them he/she/it, i certainly will and i have never met a person, who wont. But when it comes to Toiletts and refering to people in official dokuments and stuff I think it really is practical to keep it binary. Beside the point that the vast majority of people are in fact binary (well over 99%) i just dont see the harm for nonbinary. To expect everyone to learn a new way of reffering to people, so that a very small minority is not called by a gender they dont feel like, is asking a bit much I think. If you care, tell people to call you anything you like and they probably will. But I wont refer to a person as xi or anything like it in the chance, that the person is binary, because empirical when i see someone who looks like a woman, i call them she. If that person doenst like to be called she, i apologize and call them whatever they want to be called like. Where is the problem?  About the toilets I just fail to see how anyone would think it will be practical. Most people who will object to genderneutral toilets are women. Sexual confilct (lets call it that for a lack of a better word) will be inevitable. As a man, i dont want women to walk by, when i am at the urinal. These things will cause way more discomfort to the vast majority of the people, than it would for a nonbinary person to just choose one toilet. Noone is asking you to show off your penis, when entering a mans toilet. So what is the deal? When you look like a woman, than go to a womans toilet, if you look like a man, go to a mans toilet. If you look like someone in between, just go anywhere and you will be fine. Opening a third toilet for nonbinary is just not useful given that at any given facility there will probably be to few nonbinary people, who will use it.  As for the passport. It refers to your sex, that is something different than your gender.  So i seriously dont see why everyone is making a big deal about that. I am not saying, that LBTQ rights are not important, i am saying, that it is counterproductive to try to force policys that are just not helping anyone. Most people will out of reflex be against it.
omg your awesome x
you had me at drinking taxes and paying scotch i'm so frakking inspired <3
Did you shoot this video in the middle of your hallway?  "Cue shitty, unoriginal jokes about attack helicopters." Holy shit, yes. If you're gonna use the comment section for amateur standup, at least get some new material.
You lost me at "demand." This is one of the main reasons for resistance, demand & conquer: red alert 2.
life lesson: there aren't only two of ANYTHING.
How is it scientifically a fact that there are only two genders? Psychological research on the development of children shows that the roles we teach children, to be either a boy or a girl, are directing them to develop in a specific direction. This may either give purpose and clarity or a sense of "not fitting in", but most importantly, it limits the choices they have in regards to how they solve problems, express themselves etc. Children that grow up more androgynous tend to be more creative then those who are told: "A boy/girl doesn't do that". (Of course, the right genes are important here too.) This clearly shows that we are not just biologically determined (which, btw, who thinks that?!) and there is more to how identity is shaped and how it influences us. (http://people.wku.edu/richard.miller/creativity.pdf  p.669)
I just found your channel and I love it! Keep on being you <3
Is that Boxxy being a fucking transphobe? Or is it just someone who looks a lot like boxxy?
Hold up just a sec ...I am 6'2", my shoulders are twice as wide as my waist, and I'm AFAB.
Outstanding vid...thanks for posting...👍
Objection 5: Stop confusing my sexuality you god damn sexy beast!
To sum up this video you're either male or female.. Anything else is clearly mental illness as the delusional dude in the video..
How do you  'pass‘ or what you 'truly are'?!
I came here both for validation as a nonbinary person and to find out your pronouns but got distracted and unnerved by the doll be careful mom that thing looks like it's out for blood
<3 <3 <3 <3 <3 Thank you for making this!
Please could someone answer a few questions, would appreciate it! I think I may have missed something, but why cant you just be called a feminine man/male? Also you said something about english pronouns being used to differently for males and females, which are sexes and not genders. So why have any other pronouns at all if they only describe sexes and not genders?
AND A PINT OF RAW ETHER!   BTW: "sex is fucking, everything else is gender", but of course, you know this...
This is an old video so i know nobody will read my comment, but you look really good and you shouldn't worry about what other people think.
You are a cool girl. I love you my dude.
Im bigender who uses they/them or he/him
i've tried over the years (as the poster boy for boring, white, cys, blue collar men) to understand things like bisexuality and gender-non-binary, but i really never have been able to get my head around it.  not to say that matters at all, i think people should do what they want and everybody gets the same rights no matter who they are, regardless of my opinions on the subject.  but i've had friends who identify as bi or trans or other things, and i have a trans niece now, so i continue to try to understand like a dog who can't see rainbows.  if we're not in one now, i'd say there's definitely a war ahead on these issues, and you probably have a lot more allies than you think.  but it's easier to understand something you're living than it is for someone looking at it from outside the proverbial glass box.  i came here from your Jordan Peterson video, which managed to be both insightful and childish, and both profoundly fair and unfair to the guy at the same time (binarism!).  JP has definitely gone down the rabbit hole on his own agenda, but the only reason i ever noticed him is he tends to spearhead his points on trans-activism with the idea of free speech. i'm a vicious free-speech advocate.  and i mean it in the legitimate, first amendment way too, because he contends that the Canadian government is creating lawful punishment for people don't adopt the plethora of terms for ..  i'm not even sure what the wording is, "queer"?  i can't imagine any wording that won't get me angry looks.  i'm an American, so i'm not overly concerned with Canadian laws, but i'd say a sticking point for people like me is being forced to do something.  that can go down a bad path and i think it's counter-productive.  and i understand the swinging pendulum of social justice argument, i'm just generally against it, which is unfortunately my privilege.  so i'm going to dive into more of your videos, the alt-right one is up next.  my brother says he's alt-right now, and my family are all trump supporters.  maybe your video can give me a way to deal with them other than fire and fury (hashtagcallback)
Love to see what happens if he went to jail. Pretty sure if he has a sick he goes with men if a pussy then women but I'm sure you'd find out real quick what you are
I'm sorry, but biological sex in homo sapiens is strictly binary. And don't give me that intersex crap. Intersex humans are people with a medical condition, sometimes it's harmless, but some intersex people are unable to pee normally or are born sterile or worse. It is not a third gender.  However, gender. idc identify as whatever you feel like, but don't undermine biological facts with your propaganda. We can be equal and queen, it doesn't have to be "natural" to be okay. So don't pretend like it is natural. And I'm only talking about the sex here, not gender identity
You are so calm, i get headache whenever i hear a thing from one of those master scientist teenagers.
I still think agender is like aethnicity. You can't be without culture or you'd be a wild forest person, and you can't be without gender unless you've never been exposed to the idea of gender. (nonbinary and the other terms make sense)
How fucking fucked up are you? There is a only two genders you fucktard. Born in the wrong body? You were born either a male or female. Genitalia will match your gender always. If not. You are a sexist. Meaning  if you dress like a woman.  you say women arnt equal to men. Or men arnt equal to women. By describing your own gender by anything other then your genitals it affirms that you want the opposite sexs' disposition. And for what ever reason you prove that pronouns give you an advantageous embodiment of youself. Youre a fucking disaster of self. News flash No one gives a fuck about your body.. it will wither and die like everyother human in history or your clothes for that matter.  You are a cross dresser. You are dressed like a woman. (Because you want to be.) That doesnt make you any other gender. Your own tombstone will be your legacy.    And yes,  you can choose any pronoun you'd like on the epitaph. Be it mister, or miss Thats what makes america great.
I am getting super triggered by that dead pixel
I LOVE YOU
Omg I love that top! Also thank you for infroming me ^^ I'm a demisexual :3
it seems to me that much of what we would call the culture war can be reduced to the observation that patriarchy is integral, and matriarchy is differential, in the broadest sense  men tend to like to reduce things into as few groups as possible , women tend to like to dwell in the complexity of things. yak hunters vs berry pickers
My daughter told me she is gender queer but she wants to be called a "him". I am trying to watch this video to help understand. I am 52 years old, and I just don't understand what you are saying.  I hear the words coming out of your mouth but I don't understand the meaning behind them. It is very confusing for my generation
Et non, tout ta video compliment ridicule tombe à l'eau , puisque le genre (justement) n'est pas sociale, mais biologique, et il y en a que 2.
Dégoûtant
Dude/tte, you're not inspiriational - bullshit.  You're more incisive than almost anyone, intimidatingly learned, and obviously quite talented. I'm on the edge of the bell curve myself, and you make me feel inadequate. It can only be in that sense that you're not inspirational - you're too good.
How the fuck can you be "trans" or "transqueer" or whatever the fuck you claim you are? You are absolutely not feminine at all. Your voice is deep, your mannerisms are male, like what the fuck? So because you put make up on you're trans? Your creepy humor, the way you talk, the way you address things, you have no feminine energy coming from within you whatsoever.
The doll in the background is creeping me out. Kill it with fire.
Holy fuck get that doll out of the doorway or close the damn door. I'm watching this ar 3AM in a pitch black room you inconsiderate shit. Otherwise good vid I'm rewatching past videos because I just found your channel. Quality stuff.
I’m a 1957 Mack truck, please call me hard start when addressing me.
Your voice is so peaceful, you're beautiful. I'm a French genderqueer artist and you inspire me.
Oh... and PLEASE... we've seen this on YouTube before... don't make the horrible mistake of cutting parts of yourself off waaaay too soon! Sexuality and identity shifts and changes throughout life. PLEASE don't make the mistake that you can't take back. We've seen people do bottom surgery after less than 2 years ... only to have them report that it that didn't work.  Having the original plumbing gives you options ... especially seeing as you like vagina.  But more ... what animates life?  All this discussion about AI becoming a "living being"... as if an machine that can calculate information can ever acquire this thing we call a "soul" .... something science fails to quantify... and the thing we know not if it existed before we were in the womb. There are gifts and talents BEYOND the physical ... that historically "Trans" people brought ... that will be needed again.
Ah. "The Problem." 1.) Geneticist commonly remark that if there were only two genders, humans would have died out while still in the trees.  2.) Clearly there ARE more than two genders because ... what are Intersex People?? How can we say that "when a child is born so noticeably atypical in terms of genitalia that a specialist in sex differentiation is called in, the number comes out between 1.7% and as high as 2% of live births." (Unfortunately, these poor kids who "came from God" that way are usually butchered to make their genitalia look like one gender or the other... rendering them confused and pain ridden for the rest of their lives.)  3.) Gender ... as with sexuality... can be a product of Nature AND Nurture. (Enter Foucault's Theory of Sexuality: He believed only 10% if the population was born PURELY Homosexual... and only 10% were born purely Heterosexual .... leaving the remaining 80% to have culture, and Early Childhood Development to imprint upon the child.... by the way, have you ever noticed that the more Macho and religiously oppressive a culture is... the more Transgender and effeminate males it produces?)  4.) JESUS when asked about Eunuchs (... the Biblical equivalent of Transgender) He replied: ...11"Not everyone can accept this word," Jesus answered, "but only those to whom it has been given. 12For there are eunuchs who were born that way; others were made that way by men; and still others live like eunuchs for the sake of the kingdom of heaven. The one who can accept this should accept it." ~ Matthew 19:12  JESUS... JeZUSE ... said it... and that's not good enough for the Bible Thumpers (... who have no clue what those books really mean... nor what "Jesus" is.. but I digress...) This is also said to be the only thing "Jesus" said about Homosexuality.  (The religion of Duality ... lumps them together in the minds of those taught by fear not to study to hard...)  5.) This brings us to what I feel is the most interesting aspects: ..............(a)  Why is Hermaphroditus (the Hermaphrodite) such an important Archetype in the human psyche? ..............(b)  Why was "God" represented as being of both sexes? ..............(c)  Why are the Angels said to be of both genders?   6.) And now... the LONG history of "Two-Spirits" ... Shamans, Witch Doctors... Root Women... etc... and other indigenous healers who were either considered Transgender or went through initiation rites of living as the opposite gender for at least a year before they could be a true Shamanic Healer?   7.)  Intersecting "Orthogonal" elements of body, psyche... and whatever it is that animates life... is said to be a better way of describing gender, sexuality, and identity rather than a "Spectrum."   8.) Was Leonardo da Vinci just a bisexual cross dresser? It's said that if Michelangelo had been straight, he'd have painted the Sistine Chapel, Flat White.   Out of chaos comes order. Out of ignorance comes a Renaissance that lifts consciousness.  Right now, we can't keep running into the horrors of Manifest Destiny. The same thinking that has us running towards extinction cannot be the thinking that saves us.   9.) We're leaving the muscular Age of Pisces and entering the feminine Age of Aquarius. No one should fear it. Only ignorant homophobes attack the obvious.
2:29 nah watching this in 18th century
ok i think i'm in love
Chinese does have gendered pronouns, just not phonetically. They sound the same, but post-simplification saw a written distinction between masculine and feminine pronouns, with no gender-neutral alternative except for "it", which, when written, doesn't remotely resemble the "human" pronouns.  he+she: 他＋她 it: 它
I don’t think you should have to conform to gender rules at all, but dressing in stereotypically female clothing doesn’t make you a new gender. Can’t we just accept males cross dressing? It doesn’t biologically make you a new gender though. No disrespect, do you.
I consider myself thoroughly masculine of centre (think Ari Fitz) but everything you’re saying echoes my own feelings....it’s difficult and very disfiguring at the moment and in this political climate.
4:00 gotta catch em all
i met someone who had the same preference of rapid pronoun switching once - talking about him was fun
I don't really understand much of the gender stuff, but that does not really matter. It in no way personally effects me if someone wants to be referred to by a different word. Its simple politeness, like my friend John who hates being referred to by his birth name of Jonathan.
Youtube recomended this for me the instant I was asked to explain my gender.  Thanks for the practicalities, lizard overlords.
11:19 intersex people exist
sekse is something  gender is OPPOSED on people  woman learn to PERFORM femininity    its a social construct, it has nothing to do with psychology  the face uou stick to it, proves you think like a conservative  gender doesnt exist, sekse does  i have a dick, im male, thats all there is  i have no gender, i have a sekse  there is no gender , so there is also no trans gender...
I drink taxes, I pay my scotch
I fucking love you
Your voice is so incredibly soothing.
So you are a boy
I love your top :)
Doesn't a collectivist label go against the idea that everyone experiences this generalized notion differently, especially when there's 4 of them that are used seemingly interchangeably? What exactly is being defined when someone says they're agendered, considering all that seems to be discussed when the topic is brought up to specific people is a list of things they are not instead of what they are.  Also, is it a genderqueer position that clothing and presentation are made up of things that are implicitly or explicitly gendered?
The chromosomes and anatomy not being strictly binary is where you already lost me.   Chromosomes: XY or XX. Binary.  Anatomy: Penis and Vagina. Binary.   I can take these science deniers. If you don't get the facts right first your argument is already weakened.
I'm getting old. I was taught at uni muchof this as stuff in biological terms, including genetical stuff such as when people grow two penises or has a dick for a clit. Transgender people were fighting *for their right to get treatment* at the time which medically was obviously their right.  Now it's not a medical issue. *It's an identity issue and maybe even a cultural one* no less... People demand to be addressed as this or that, laws are being created to enforce it and safe spaces at unis proliferate in case someone just calls you a she or a he. I totally agree that you shouldn't need to justify yourself at all, cause really WHO CARES?? We're all individuals in individualistic societies, we should have mastered live and let live by now. I also get that you want your identity held to a high standard.   At the same time this whole thing with language and oppression and so on... It's a nope for me. As much as I got into screaming arguments to defend bi and homosexuality when I was younger and sexual preference was the issue, this just feels waaay too convoluted for me. I'm filled with intellectual and emotional laziness about it all, I think mostly due to how it's been done or portrayed. Rooting for each one of you I'd say, but I just cannot care about the movement you're trying to set in motion as a minority group.
I'm worried about your power outlet
她的 + 他的。
No, I am inspired. Well done.
Wow, you're so open. Impressive!
Just thank you.
It's it okay to identify as a black Chinese woman?
The only reason nonbinary genders exist is ideologically-possessed radical social constructivists like yourself.  You said it yourself. The first few times you heard about nonbinary it sounded like a bunch of made-up nonsense to you too. That's because it is; gender ideology created this, and your transformation from "this is made up nonsense" to "I'm this!" was gender ideology. You would not even consider being like this otherwise.
I'm an old cis white guy who just discovered your smart, funny videos. And now I have a crush on you so I better pony up a few buck to Patreon. Cheers.
I'm an old cis white guy who just discovered your smart, funny videos. And now I have a ridiculous crush on you so I better pony up a few bucks to Patreon. Cheers.
Am I the only one that can't focus on the video because of that facking doll!? I was so scared...
Most people conflate gender with sex.  And upon this is built the entire anti-feminist/"skeptic" movement.
I'm glad I subscribed now, I need to remember all these terms. Also, I like your voice too, if your voice was too girly, depending on the pitch, I probably wouldn't have listened till the end. The way you are and just how random and funny you are, I would love to have a friend like you lol I've only had straight cisgendered friends
There are XX men! There are XY women! There are people with neither of those, like people with  Turner's Syndrome. FURTHER, everyone starts off intergender. The default gender is female+the ducts that would allow the testes to drop. Hormones then modify this... unless you happen to be immune to one of the hormones.  Intersex is a biological reality. "It's biological fact" is a bad argument.
The creepiest thing about this video is that doll in the corner.
You look beautiful in this video - thanks for the eloquant explanation!
Clarification in Chinese. There is no "gender less pronoun" it's just "he" and "she" are said the same (but written differently). 他=he="ta" 她=she="ta" 它=it="ta" applies to objects only  I presume some may use 它 but it would seem like making you less humanlike. If there are any non-binary chinese here I would like to know what you would call yourself. It would be really interesting :)
Man, woman..... My favourite human <3
Ok that hot dog bit just killed me. "Thank you, doctor"😂😂 But it's kinda pathetic why people care so much and why there is this desperate need for other people to fit into neat categories and how upset they get when that's not the case. Why do they care what another person identifies as as long as they're not hurting other people? I don't get it...
all gender is a feeling. and how you see yourself. like how there is a gender relating to the scarry things or the Gothic aesthetic   i am told anything not cis is trans.  nb is trans, agender is trans.  some say gender is the "sex of the brain"  what about neurogenders? like genders only for people with NPD or Autism?  or genders only for otherkin, like the angels and therianthropes.  wouldn't being dragongender automatically be gender queer?  on some things I've seen, the afabs who are not girly girl, automatically think they might be not cis.  there is a gender relating to feeling disgusted with themself. I think. there is dread  and anxiety relating genders   is there is a difference between that, and dysmorphia?  there is a gender about having a lot of genders. you can even make up a new term, if you call it melangegender! and it won't be pangender or omnigender or anything else like it.
I thought you were assigned female at birth at first so stfu
The problem I have with non-binary is that it has a few presuppositions that I don't believe have been proven. In order to be non-binary is must assume that binary things can be avoided or eliminated by human endeavors: namely that it is a "social construct" and not a natural quality of the world. I would disagree and say that the binary nature of the world, namely the idea of opposites exists in nature and more specifically in our very nature philosophically. From and existentialist perspective the ability to negate is at the core of human beings. The word has shape and form because we are able to distinguish and create disparate, This is not that. The chair in my house in not the chair in your house. This approving or rejecting of a concept is the binary negation build into us. No you may wonder what this has to do with Male and Female and gender. The argument I am making is that since it is not our conscious choice to produce a binary it can not be dismissed consciously. It can of course be ignored, which is what I think gender non-binary people are doing. This would, however, be similar to pretending that our drive for sex and our fear of death is a conscious choice and I can choose not to be drive by sex or scared of death.   The other idea I would take issue with is that people's perceptions of themselves are accurate. Since poor Freud and Jung have fallen out of favor and the cognitive behaviors came into the picture people have been believing that they know why they do things. The truth is, just because you think something is the case about you does make it true. This also does not mean other necessarily know you better then you. There is that idea that you can see a splinter in someone else's eye but not the tree truck in your own. This does not somehow mean, though, that others should tell you that you need to conform to male or female.   There is not good answer to the question, the idea is that there are things outside of our control, the binary nature of our own existence and consciousness and that we tend to create similar patterns unconsciously and thus have very little hope to address it. My opposition to acceptance of the notion of non-binary is not about the person expressing themselves but that somehow if you express something in opposition to the reality that is constructed others need to alter the perceptions that did not even choose to produce in order to accommodate your feeling. The true is life sucks, it is not designed to make us happy or be fair and though he strive to make it more fair as well we should, to fool ourselves into thinking we can actually make it fair is foolish and simple minded. The problem is some on the left (I count myself as liberal) only pay lip service to this notion and secretly harbor the hope that one day things will be fair. I am too much of an existentialist and a realist men and women will never be equal, we are more similar then different but we have innate difference that will always affect us. Pretending we don't, pretending that we constructed them so we can fix them or pretending we can destroy them will not work and will get us no closer to helping figure out how to manage the difference that advantage and disadvantage both sexes in various ways.
I'm kind of giddy you mentioned agender people more than once. Look, Ma, I'm on TV!  Also, this is totally unrelated, but I really like that shirt!
Where can one get that black top at?  I really love it!
There are gendered pronouns in Chinese: 她(she)，他(he)，它(it)，他们(masculine they)，她们(feminine they)，它们 (neutral they).
Trans people wouldn’t exist if society didn’t categorize attributes and interests to gender. By creating more labels, you’re only creating more societal stereotypes, not addressing the root problem.
self loathing self denigrating....i'm still there. sorry babe, but you are an inspiration.
Thank you for this video, and for the link to the Laurie Penny article.
Came across this video by accident after I'd had to try to explain to a friend what the genderqueer term meant. Which was ironic, since I've never personally known genderqueer people. This video was an excellent sum-up of the answer I needed and what it entailed, and I loved the humor you used throughtout. Kudos!
thanks for the video, now i understand topic a bit more. :)
Natalie, thank you for the honest, insightful and entertaining piece. I am making my way through all of your work and haven't found anything yet that I don't like.
Gender identity != Gender.  I'm pretty sure this is where most of the misunderstanding occures.  As I understand it Sex != Gender.  This is all just one big issue of semantics
I'm sorry but that LASER DOT is fucking annoying!
Well, I'm not fully convinced yet, but you are still a liberal that makes the most sense of any one I've found so far and I am willing to hear whatever you have to say.
Youre still a man hun, sorry.
So, explain why animals have only two sexes? And they preform the acts of a male or female. Let me guess your dog thinks he is a cat so a gendercat for the dog? You can name them Catdog, or Dogcat or  Walking my cat name dog title of a song.    So, the Chinese  (8:51) (Pronouns) do not have gender pronouns but Japanese language there is words and how things are said by women only or men only. That is why when an American service members who dates a Japanese women and learns the language are talking like a Japanese women very feminine.  "The Japanese language has some words and some grammatical constructions that are associated with men or boys, while others are associated with women or girls. Such differences are sometimes called "gendered language". So that is out there.  I don't care if you are a man and wear a dress, I see it as a transvestite like Dr. Frank N Futer in The Rocky Horror Picture show. I loved Tim Curry as him.  BTW like your make up and that dress is to die for. 😉 But remember a kilt isn't a skirt, if you do say that you will end up on your a$$ as the Scots will knock you down it is offensive to them.  😆
Contra:; What you say is partially true; you conflate the differences between genetic sex, gender sexuality with Bell curve outliers and not the mean in order to extrapolate that gender is culturally created.  Great videos, btw.  You are brilliant, but biased, as are we all.
Nah, you're just a dude with a weak sense of identity.
Let's be honest, aren't most nonbinary people kinda weird and freakish anyway? I mean, i say this as a nonbinary person who has difficulty self-identifying as "human"--oh hey, that even showed up in this video! Hey, neat, my identity is being attacked on the internet!  Now where was i? Right, i think you've gotta be willing to cast aside societal norms and be willing to be a little weird and queer to identify as nonbinary. Not that i'd ever say that to the anti-feminists/TERFs/anti-SJWs/fash in general. They don't get to call me weird.
You are adorable.
Genuine and honest 😊 loved it
So this is weird. I am a fan of Peterson and Shapiro. But I like the clarity of your videos. I probably have points to argue, but that’s not the point. The point is I have to deal with my dysphoria in my intellectual non-binary approach to gender. The arguments around gender identities don’t really hold with my 50+ years of accepting and rejecting ideological positions. But your right to respect as an individual is at the core of your existence and I tip my hat to you. So “don’t dream it, be it” Now stop smashing sausages.
You look great. You sound great. Thanks for being you.
omg the hot dog bit was like watching fox news hosts trying to grasp anything
At 10:27 . Have any nomenclature you like. But don't expect the world at large to be :  A.   Automatically cognizant of it at all times  or B. Think it is part of some demonic plot to erase you from society  How about this as a strategy to deal with normie-mangling of pronouns. Imagine they are mishearing your accent and think you are from another state or country (I am Irish and have a very peculiar South East Ireland dialect and I am continuously assumed to be Northern Irish or even English sometimes) it's a bit of a pain sometimes but sometimes it can be a topic of conversation.  Incidentally there are no normies. Everyone is a freak on some level to a greater or lesser extent.
Sometimes I wonder if reincarnation can be a factor in why a percentage of people identify with the gender not of their body, or both, etc?       If you've had the majority of your experiences in a particular gender, and then for some reason decided to switch it up, chances are, subconsciously, you'd probably still identify some with the other gender.         Switching gears some, there is a concept I've come across in some spiritual/metaphysical oriented sources that indicate as a Soul evolves more and more CONSCIOUSLY to it's original, Source/Oneness/pure Love state, that it becomes more and more merged/balanced between consciousness oriented Yin/Feminine and Yang/Masculine.        There is the infamous meeting in one of Bob Monroe's last book, "Ultimate Journeys" where during one of his OBE's, he asks his guidance if he could meet the most spiritually developed/mature human living in his space/time reference.  The person he was led to, at first, he couldn't tell if they were a man or a woman as they seemed to be perfectly balanced and merged between these.
I don’t think it makes a big difference to me what other people identify as.
Thanks for the lesson
I think you’re beautiful and my cup of tea, but alas you won’t remember this comment because it’s not broiling in charming hate. *sigh*
How about I simply call you FABULOUS!!!  Also, Fun Fact: those of The First Nations call Trans ppl and most of those on your list as Two-Souled ppl & they are Revered and considered to be Touched By The Gods.
☺☺☺☺☺☺☺☺ Fellow Genderqueers 💜💙🧡💛💚❤💖
I followed a link to your videos from 4chan. I watched a video and now I am working my way through your content. I had a lot of probably wrong opinions about trans, queer etc etc . I no longer look at the few trans co-workers i have like they are mentally ill. I cannot say I fully understand , but I now have a better understanding. Also your content is entertaining while educating. ( sorry about my english , it is not my first language) I will continue enjoying your content. thank you
mental disability
Biologist here who actually studied the evolution and biology of sex and gender.  And I have to say, there's nothing I hate more than people who know jack shit about biology trying to misuse the work of me and my peers to bully others.  Thank you for your videos and thank you for taking the time to explain to us who you are.
the right: tran are snowflakes that hide in safe spaces also the right: yOU WANT TO USE OUR BATHROOMS AND BE CALLED "THEY"?? THIS IS COMMUNIST OPPRESSION WHAT HAPPENED TO MUH FREEZE PEACH *REEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEE* MOM GET MUH TENDIES
I know a Queer "Girl" too... she grew up on a Farm with 5 Brothers...she wanted to be like her Brothers since she can think...for X-mas she wanted a 22 Rifle not a Dollhouse.... she is now doing webcam shows to fund the surgery to remove her breasts and she takes hormones too... but honestly i must say... her face is too cute... she looks like a girl with beard ...like Michele Rodriguez in that Movie where she plays a Guy. I guess it needs some Years to get a male chin and a big larynx and such stuff
Thank you for this. Not just this video but this whole damn channel. It’s weird in every way possible and that is awesome in and of itself. I’m learning so much about topics that I’ve been meaning to read up on.  Please do not stop what you’re doing.
You're a dope ass person
...wait...is Contra Points 'The Last Psychiatrist?'.............
this is hella sick
Sex is NOT a nebulous concept
Gender is largely informed by bioligical sex.
You're either a grown-ass adult OR you're genderqueer … these categories are mutually exclusive.
My gender is a puzzle, a work of postmodern art, and a work in progress.  I want my own bathroom full of transtoilets that were assigned washing machine at birth, and otherkin toilets that identify as fire hydrants (dog toilets) and X-gender nekomimi male calico eunuch electronic bidets with Klinefelter syndrome filled with kitty litter, and R. Mutt signed urinals that identify as Uranians and gay traps, and third-gender undocumented Latrino outhouses for Muxes with a crescent sun on the door and for guevedoces with a blood moon on the door that become lunagenderfluid during eclipse season, and I want it to accommodate attack, transport and recon as well as Three-Spirit helicopters of every tribe (including the Wälkures of the Nazi tribe) by placing it inside a mosque (where attack helicopters dump their loads)  that doubles as a cram school for overbearing recon-gender helicopter parents and triples as a black bloc hideout so transportgender helis can give them free helicopter rides.  Oh and don't forget adult-sized baby change trays for babygendered individuals who were assigned male or female at birth despite identifying as a baby, and continuing to identify as a baby even at toilet training age.  But make sure that the handicapped stalls are tiny because large stalls are triggering unless they identify as a wheelchair. And make sure the tampon dispenser includes ultra-skinny tampons for that one gender that bleeds out of their penis.  And include urinals that identify as men with micropeens.  And make sure that the stall for Hijras has instructions on how to poo in a first-world loo, written in every language that uses Devanagari or Tamil script but not in English so as to prevent the baizuo from appropriating the Hijra gender.
i love this
come on? no bun on bun action? I am disappoint
Wait. You just like girls... and your tall...  oh.. uh.. heeeyy.. there... I also like removing all my body hair.. (Yeah..I'm good at subtle flirting)
There's only one sex, the human sex
Arielle ScarOnTheHumanRace, Jaclyn Glenn and ShoeOnTheHead (or whatever their names are) never cease to suprise me, sad to see they're still as trash as ever.
In May 2016, I sat down with a pint of raw ether and streamed Trump rallies for several hours, huffing from a washcloth, until all the ether was gone. In my altered state, I was no longer in a position to understand coherent thoughts. But my emotional self was still fully intact. It was the perfect state for understanding the Trump phenomenon.   I felt a warm glow toward the man and the crowd. Trump seemed like a masterful conductor, bringing together a symphony of emotion and chanting from the audience. With every gesture, the crowd responded. He went on and on, conducting surges of positive emotion towards various local businessmen (rarely - but not never - women), veterans, and even ordinary Joes who had done something above and beyond to show their support. Along with, of course, all the politicians who had supported him. Negative emotions were even more expertly beamed at politicians who had dissed him, and at groups of his opponents. There was plenty of vitriol for the elites of the country, along with liberals in general. The overwhelming emotion, though, was not hate. It almost kind of felt like love. Love for all the people who supported him through thick and thin, who were part of this movement. Even love for those few minorities and LGBT people who supported him.   ...and then I had an empty bottle of ether, and the rag was dry, and it was 4:30 am, and I was naked, and the orange guy started not making sense again. I think I was naked because it felt better that way. Pretty sure I wasn't jacking off. But not like 100% sure.  If anything, Hunter S. Thompson underplayed what ether is like. It is one hell of a drug. Highly recommended, and you have good taste: it is by far the best drug for understanding kekistanis.
This video needs more views.
The thing is all of this seems incredibly incoherent to me. If you care to explain... From what I heard and read about the whole gender theory, the first premisse is that sex and gender are not the same and are not necessarily correlated. Sex is a set of physical attributes while gender is something ill defined along the lines of the set of roles, expected behaviours, manners, fashions, etc that we have attributed to one sex or the other but that we supposedly shouldn't have because that's limiting and leaves out those who don't want to conform to what's been assigned to their sex. So sex would be something physical while gender would be something social. I think you also added psychological there. To address the incoherences so far: As to the psychological side of gender, it has been studied that there are in fact many psychological traits that manifest themselves in your personality, way of acting and reacting that are strongly correlated with your sex and that you can verify cross-culturally. So to say that there is no correlation between sex and gender is either false or gender doesn't mean what you say it means. There seems to be a very strong correlation and perhaps it's not even clear that there is a distinction at all. And this does make sense on a biological level. Men and Women are born with different physical attributes and different roles (at least in terms of reproduction) and it seems obvious that they would've evolved differently on a psychological level too. For example, being that women are born with the capacity of having babies, it seems that empathy would be a trait more useful to someone taking care of something as fragile as a baby. Men are born with more physical strength, making them capable of hunting and fighting, if only they had a bit more of aggression than women. So our personalities are also evolved, not just a social construct, and are pretty correlated with our sex. This is not to say that there is no variation and that you can't be an empathetic man or an aggressive woman. And now, on the social level: either there is something intrinsic about social norms that correlates them to sex or social norms are just social constructs with no inherent link to sex. Now if there is an intrinsic link between social norms and sex, then it once again becomes less clear to me that there is even a distinction between gender and sex, or at least that they're not correlated. But if social norms are just social constructs, then why do some people feel the need to change their sex to match their social code of preference? Isn't it incoherent to say that sex and gender are not correlated and at the same time lining up with transexuals who not only adopt the socially defined parameters of the other genders but also change their sex to match them?! Why match them if there's no match to begin with? Or insisting on being treated with the opposite pronoun when these pronouns were made to distinguish between sexes (and not genders, since all of these theories weren't around)?? Not only do I adopt the posture, manners, fashions, etc of the other gender but I also alter my body to match them, by the correlation "wrongfully" imposed by society, and demand to be called whatever people are calling to people of that sex, while supposedly sex and gender are unrelated... It seems to me that there is both a strong insistence on breaking the ties between sex and gender and a strong insistence in aligning the things that define you sex with your adopted gender. But on to the point that confuses me the most: if the social aspects of genders are SOCIAL, that is, artificial, transmitted and learned, changeable through time and geographically, etc, HOW CAN YOU SAY YOU KNOW THAT DEEP DOWN YOU TRULY ARE A MAN/WOMAN?! You LEARNED and ADOPTED these aspects! You were not born with a preference for dresses or pants, long hair or short hair, make up or no make up, etc! How can you say "this is who I really am"? Or "I'm a man in a woman's body"? Social norms are NOT who you really are! What do they matter and why do you insist on them being YOU? If the social norm was that men wore dresses, I'd wear a dress! If it was the social norm that men would wear pink, I'd wear pink! What does it matter to me?! That's no who I AM, that's what I put on and says NOTHING relevant about me! I wasn't born with that and it doesn't change a dime! And same thing applies to you! You could be born before dresses were invented or after they were extinct! There is nothing in you that says that who you really are is someone who wears dresses! That's a choice, that's a construct, that ABSOLUTELY extrinsic. It boggles me how people try to identify so hard with these minor things! You are how you act in the world.
Quick correction, at 8:51 you say "In some langauges, like Chinese, there are no gendered pronouns." This statement is actually false, Chinese does contain gendered pronouns. However they are all pronounced the same as Ta (first tone), so it is indistinguishable in the spoken langauge. These are the seperate types:  他 (he, it contains the male radical, 人（ren) , on the left),  她 (she, it contains the female radical, 女 (nu), on the left) and 它 (meaning it)
I call ya both
I'm a transgender guy who has had a hard time with understanding and being open with genderqueer identities. I've found a lot of hostility from Trans groups, especially ones with NB people, as a more binary trans man. I think that manifested in me as a deterrence from nonbinary people, and a myopic view on them. I too thought they were just afabs that wanted to be part of the trans community, so they adopt that label without any dysphoria. But this video has helped me a little understand better...   I know this video is old, but I have a question for you, if you read comments. What do you feel about "transtrenders", ie, the idea that there are people that claim transgender status for the acceptance into the community? At one point I felt they were everywhere and felt hurt they were co-opting trans language and identity when they were simply gender non conforming. Now I feel that that's maybe an unkind fallacy. Do you have an opinion on this?
lol the denial
So, you are biologically male, you' re not gay, you just dress like a woman? you' re a tranny.
Thanks for sharing your perspective! I've been looking for a good explanation of this topic for a while.
Do you have a PP or Va-jay-jay
My gender is baked potato
u made me cry
As a woman you look great but as a man you look so hot. The world deserves to have both XD. Very interesting content.suscribed
just discovered this these still don't get nonbinary, ect ect ?????? like this tho  😊 😋 😎 😍 😘 😗 😙
Funny, I'm like you in the same way you describe your hobby/expression/lifestyle. I always went with 'xdresser" but now I prefer no label.
This doesn't make any sense. You enjoy drag as a guy. Why does that come with "queer" gender expression? How can you express anything other than male or female? There is nothing inbetween that's not a chromosomal aberration. Feminine man is enough. Masculine woman is enough. Crossdresser is also good enough. It's also kind of demanding to wish the general populace's widespread cognition and acceptance of a group of people at the fringes who clearly present non standard behaviour. Let's all play our toys at home and leave one another to whatever we're into.
is it sexist to say that you're gorgeous, also i subbed for your intelligent other side of the story videos
Not anymore, now you're a hot girl.
I know you are preemptively satirizing yourself, but I still want to tell you that I don't find you freakish at all! Your are being true to who you are and I couldn't respect that any more!  Great video.
This is still confusing to watch, but I'm glad I did. I might be learning.
Chinese does have gendered pronouns it's just that you can only tell the difference when it's written sorry I have no life and I just have to do these things sometimes
You are a delight.
You're a beautiful butterfly. A beautiful, beautiful, scary butterfly :)  PS: BTW the joke about attack helicopters is not so crazy. If I could get surgery to transform into a beautiful intergalactic spaceship I would totally do it. Just wait a few centuries.
I fucking love you.
Listen I was with you until you set the explanation of biological sex to banjo music.  WHEN will the banjo stigma end????
I don't think I've ever quite found a piece that so accurately captures a lot of my own feelings re: myself & my gender. I understand from internet buzzery that your stance might have changed drastically, but I just wanted to say thanks for doing this in the first place.   Especially your description of being "un-misgenderable" and your stance in the way you dress -- it all resonated very solidly with me. Thank you.
Searched the internet for a way to identify the piece that was in the beginning before I thought "Hey... maybe the pieces are there in the description? Naah..." Been waiting for an introduction to Schubert and chamber music in general. Thank you!
holy shit, the girl going "WHAT IF YOU DONT IDENTIFY AS A HUMAN" and like... mmmmm but thats me to an extent. My experience in gender is just "I dont even feel like a real human how can i identify with their made up identities" So I've undergone hormones to make me more androgynous and got top surgery, because having sex characteristics at all made me feel disgusting and self hating. I did, in fact, have to fucking feed my surgeon this story about how I was really a man and I had to go on hormones in order to get the surgery I needed to feel okay in my body, even if I wouldn't have necessarily gone on them in the first place. I now present as male even though "he" pronouns still give me a little bit of dysphoria-- I don't want to illicit violence from confused people who feel like they have a right to know what I "really" am... all that aside im now addicted to your videos. every single one of em make me want to stand up and applaud. FUck yeah.
holy fuckcamel. this is exactly how i have felt
I got such a fright when i noticed the doll hahA
I just love the beautifully adorned doll exposed by the light in a dark closet.
Love your top.
Question : - surely we could solve so much of this Gender pronoun issue by associating pronouns with Sex rather than Gender. This means you dont need to change society and years of being taught one thing to most of the western world,  to be validated?
I am interested to know about Gender Dysphoria and why you feel you need a different body part to satisfy yourself. I find most explanations  leave more questions than answers, hopefully you can give more insight to the subject.
I think youre being over pedantic when you say youre not a man in womens clothes.. Clothes are simple garments and from an absolute perspective have no specific Gender to whom they belong. However you could say you are a 'man who dresses in typically efeminite/traditionally womens clothing. Which is how i think most of the world would define a cross dresser in this sense.
It sounds like your saying that what makes you who you are is those that you are similar with around you? (e.g. when you pointed our Gender queer is those younger, AFAB and Dating the same (i guess pre gender?) Which with all due respect sounds like a lackluster way of using definitions. What I mean is everyone's social experience is different so Gender then becomes a meaningless word.
Your condescending attitude kept me from watching more than two minutes of your video. If you wanted to inform people about this subject, maybe be less of a tool next time.
>i drink my taxes >i pay my scotch
Brilliant. Just. Brilliant :-D
Here's the reality:  Let's say mainstream people accept the LGBTQXYZ promulgated theory that gender is entirely a 'social construct.'   A year or so down the road, the radical LGBTQXYZ community will assert that BIOLOGICAL SEX is entirely a 'social construct.'   Yes . . . . they will say that biological sex does not really exist.  Anyone who thinks this isn't full-on epistemological warfare from the left is an idiot.
Fucking hilarious new subscriber
thx for video, now i know im not only one guy in woman cloths, who dont really identity myself as none, not a man, not a woman, sometimes wearing man cloths and sometimes wearing woman cloths,  and also gone really far went to doctors with gender identity issues,  and in the end they almost prescribed me hormones, but before final question are u consider yourself totally 100% woman, and the answer is, "not sure", then they both(there was 2 doctors) said we don't think u understand yourself who you are, they said better make sure that you for sure identity yourself as a woman, i got letter from them later in which they said make research about who you are, i had long hair which i cut off, now everyone says i look like "Linderman" from "Rammstein", i don't listen to them, just friend mentioned it, right now i only sometimes wear woman cloths or stuff, so i no longer identity as possible  trans, i trow the idea away and besides i like girls too, so its anyway wont change anything if i was fully transitioning, because i don't like man, but sometimes wear full makeup, im going to nail salon monthly, i still hasn't stopped doing it, once in while correcting my eyebrows also in salon, i had many woman shoes, even with heels, even with super high heels,, but yeah nothing lasts forever, i rly was confused,  and then i trow out them because it felt like i must push myself to not wear them or i was afraid of ppl on streets,  i feel confident wearing high heel boots, i still have one pair, but not very high heel for them,  last time i went with them this week to nail salon, im not drop off fact that i like to cross-dress, i just do it now mostly at home, last week gone full cross-dress when i rly felt fancy doing it, i wear dress, stoking and all my jewelry on, and was gone party with friends like that, i got few good friends to whom i described, that im not a gay, i just like to wear dress.... with one of them even party last night too,  alright have a fun  and be yourself, just be yourself which-out making lines is it right to wear dress right now, do i need to wear this cloths, that's cloths, if you feel fancy to why not ;)
What pronoms should people use with you ?
Awesome honesty in this video. I am glad I patreoned. Cheers
Thank you for this. You just helped me understand myself a little bit more. And by a little bit I mean you painted the entire fucking picture. So thank you. I appreciate this video
That doll is gonna haunt my dreams
I disagree with you on a lot of stuff, but how you present actual fucking arguments is great, over a lot of the "skeptic" guys.
Your voice is fucking awesome. I wrote a wall of text on another one of your videos already regarding the gender of the psyche versus the gender of your body and well, the psyche is both and it's a lot more fluid than your body will ever be. I'm very similar to you physically, a slender 60kg, 6'2", long-haired blond. Blue eyes in my case. The masculine and feminine aspects of my psyche are well integrated because of years of inner alchemy, and while I suppose my feminine aspects suffer from dysphoria occasionally, my masculine aspects do that too since I'm fairly androgynous, much like yourself. I wouldn't actually do anything surgical to your body, just have fun with how you express yourself—which is pretty much what you do anyway by the looks of it. More than I've ever done. I suppose I look like a male elf right out of LotR and that's good enough for me. Okay. I'll confess, sometimes I'd like to play with blue eye shadow, but that's the wine talking.  Something I would advocate for androgynous men who want to play with their gender expression is to not give up being a man, but rather expand the territory of how men can present themselves. I'm pretty tired of men having to be boring to be acceptable while women get so much more creative freedom. Guys like David Bowie were big heroes of mine because he made it okay to be a beautiful man. Same with a lot of the '80s glam. One of the saddest things I read about the supermodel Andrej Pejic was when he transitioned, because there needs to be more outrageously beautiful men in the world who aren't scared to be remain men. It just seems like there's this message, "you're too beautiful, you have to become a woman", if you happen to be a very beautiful androgynous man. It's annoying. There should be stunning men everywhere, but it seems like they're not allowed to be that. That really is the wine talking. That's what I get for drinking on an empty stomach. Anyway, stay awesome.
Don’t loathe yourself. I think you’re awesome.
I love you so much thanks for being you and for the video boo 😘
So you are a gender non conforming man
The sad part is that anyone that doesn't understand or don't want  to understand will probably overlook this video, already extremely confident in their ways.
you are an subhuman not an genderqueer
🖤🖤🖤
Tfw you're the only sane person in the comment section. What ive noticed about people like this is that they act like anyone who doesnt have the same views as them is "uneducated". The whole LGBT acceptance thing recently started about 5 years ago, and ive noticed many of them getting upset the whole world hasnt converted to their views. Its peoples choices if they would like to respect your pronouns or not. Dont force your views on other people.
yes please!
people are stupid. (flat earthr's best example) so people that think they are genderqueer on non-whatever in my eyes are the same. waste of space imo u are funny but ur ideas r stupid.
Mentally ill commie living off Capitalism and denying science . The stupid is great in this one  ha ha ha .
I think the They pronoun is the only thing that bothers me. They already has a defnition which cant simply be removed. I cannot replace they went to the station with we went to the station as I clearly am not among the group who went there. Now if I am refering to two or more gender queer people they is perfectly fine. But what about a singular gender queer person. I think we need a pronoun for that because as it stand the only singular pronoun we have without gender is it. And I definitely think it would come off as cruel and demeaning to refrence any person as it. I reserve that for Donald Trump alone. It wants to build a border wall for example. Is there a pronoun for 1 gender queer person which can be used in replacement for he or she?
If people would wear a button with their pronoun/s, self-identification that would help..... then no one has to be unintentionally offensive nor offended.
I just fell in love with you. Thank fuck you made this video.
"I don't want to surrender my male attributes". Then you don't suffer from dysphoria, you are confused man. That's all.
You're 6'2?  Do u wanna PM me maybe?
Your story sounds exactly like mine...
I love your dress!
Good to see more people who are like me. :)
The "scientific explanation of gender" absolutely killed me. Love your vids
Radical LARPing is still strong in this one. Can you just admit that you are roleplaying a woman? I mean its okay with me, but saying that you were "always" a woman, or that you "essentialy" are one, is simply wrong and gets you into "essentialism". I dont think you wanna go that route...
Biological sex is nebulous? 'LOL. It isn't.  It's factual and straightforward.  You are a man.  Nothing nebulous about that.  You like to wear socially constructed attire that women sometimes do. And no, you cannot change your chromosomes. But pray tell, if you have, let us know. But we all know you haven't.   Tell us more Mr. Science!!
Explain to me why 40% of transgender individuals kill themselves.
Am I the only one distracted by the creepy doll in the background?
Hmmmmm what is thi- AHHHHHHHHHHHH I DONT UNDERSTANDDDDDDDDDDDDDD
Hahahaha 😂 the banjo duel,...funny and appropriate hahaha 👍😂.
Thank you for posting this video! I can relate so much to you. PS.: I totally agree that we should embrace your freakish side, take it from my own user name.
Ok, so this video is doing an amazing job at explaining gender in its modern interpretation and all. But can we PLEASE talk about that creepy doll in the background for a moment? Good, bc it's freaking me the fuck out. It's just sitting there, behind that half closed door (which it probably opened on its own) and staring right through the camera into the deepest depths of my soul.
Alright, I’m gonna say that I really don’t agree with your outlook on gender and feminism but this being the first video I have ever watched of your made me realize something. You seem like a genuinely fun person to be around, like I’d want to be friends with you if we had met in like high school or something. I may not agree with you, but you are so much more self aware than a lot of people who consider themselves in the same place as you.
Edgy adults are real too.
anyone else feeling extreme anxiety regarding that doll in the background/??????
Oh, my god how can this be funny and educational at the same time? I fucking love you.
Fantastic! New subscriber here. ♥♥♥♥
So you're a feminine man? Listen, I don't care what yourself as. But, when people like you want to get the law involved to go into women's bathrooms, shelters, prisons, locker rooms etc etc.... Then we have a problem
I don't even know you, but I love you! Thank you for this video.
whats that pink dot
I didn't realize I had watched this  video before until I saw the hotdog and bun part and then realized I must have blotted it out in my memory because that was pretty upsetting/disturbing for me. Nothing against other parts of the video, but I didn't like that bit.
Actually, in Chinese he and she are pronounced the same, but they are written differently.  I love your top by the way.
cool
Wow, wonderful video! I will share this with everyone I know because it’s so important to open people‘s narrow minds. I will continue fighting for everyone and everything queer although I’m (probably) straight myself.. Keep up the good work!
I thought you were an atheist. But you’re asking people to listen to the thoughts and feelings of people to prove something? That makes no sense. If you’re “genderqueer” then that should be easily accessible via your chromosomes and/or brain scans. Like, I can prove to you I’m male. It’s a pretty simple test.   If you’re trying to explain that you like having sex with boys and girls, that’s fine. That’s bisexual. If you feel more feminine (female) than masculine (male), no one is surprised by that because you’re bisexual.   Now...if you FEEL like something...that’s not relevant at all to any version of worthwhile society. You want to get sex reassignment surgery? Go ahead. It’s your body. Want to sleep with men and women? Go ahead. Adult decisions. People can think you’re weird. Who cares? Is that what this is about? “Stop thinking I’m weird!” Have you watched your videos? Lol You obviously don’t care if people think you’re weird...so what’s the issue? This just feels like a bunch of people shouting and waving their hands “LOOK AT ME! LOOK AT ME!!”
The fact that you had to spend the time to make a 17 Min video to explain a gender goes to show your delusional! Your a man. That likes men. That’s that. Not no twisted 17 Min long definition....  of what you think you are. Your a man. Nothing wrong with it, but don’t expect the world to bend at your feet.
from one freakish hybrid to another ...the doll creeps me out !
Thank u for this video, I was trying to understand the "made up genders" some time ago by looking on tumblr cause I assumed what better way to give them a genuine shot than tumblr where they reside.But t was all very vague and non clear at all...Like people saying "wow queerFairy98, your invented pronoun exactly represent my gender!" without actually explaining what they feel...point is, it just sounded like a made up teen angst fantasy, even when i tryed to open my hearth to it.But your way of explaining it really put in perspective, and in a way i could understand.
You called yourself a “freakish hybrid” but queer means freak so you just called yourself a queer hybrid
This is the most inspiring video I have ever seen.  I needed this.  :)
omg love
Haha i was inspired anyway take that
I've always been kinda iffy on the whole genderqueer thing because I used to go to an LGBT youth center where it seemed like every other person would suddenly decide they were non-binary after a few weeks so it always seemed like more of a trend that a real thing. Then the people who seemed to genuinely not identify with the binary seemed to also have some crippling self-esteem issues and anxiety issues. Like it almost seemed like they saw themselves as non-binary as a way to disassociate from themselves. To be fair, that's probably just some psychobabble I came up with from reflecting on times when I felt violently uncomfortable in my own skin. I guess I accept non-binary as a valid identity but I'm hesitant to believe every other teen with colorful hair and a nose ring is going to keep this label for the rest of their lives.
god that doll is creeping me the fuck out
I literally LOVE YOU, Fuck the haters! I'm Gender Queer also!
I fucking relate to that video
I would like to see you analyse this vid as well.   It is one of my favourites among your older work.
I identify as V1000 Advance Premium Canon Laser Printer.
thats a cute ass shirt
I'm honestly just pissed that I didn't come across your channel sooner. also your makeup skills are better than mine and I am LIVING for it. This satire mixed with philosophical truth and such is honestly the best.
After I was forced to move to Russia, one of the difficulties for me was that Russian actually has no non-binary pronouns at all. Not even for situations where you don't know a person's gender. You're just supposed to use 'he'. So, when I talk about my genderqueer friends in Russian, I actually do the rapid-fire switching between 'he' and 'she', which confuses the shit out of people. Trying to explain why I'm doing it certainly doesn't make it any better, but you gotta start somewhere.
Came here to understand this topic since I've been seeing it come up a fare share in my youtube recommendation videos and found this to be rather nice. It was nice to see someone explain how they view themselves and with seeing that it's easy to understand how that is all anyone wants to do. Something that was tough to see what the self degrading that goes on, at least from what I see, to yourself. If there was anything that stood out it wasn't how you dressed, how you expressed yourself or anything that I saw outwardly but what appeared to be going on inwardly. And with that being said I wish nothing but the best for the world that seems to be under torment inside, I don't mind much for how things should be done, I care about the person and what is going on inside. How a wonderful day my friend.
💖💖💖
Finally! Someone makes a funny genderqueer video! 😂
I'd date you before I'd date a CIS male being strangled in a corset made of man stereotype. I love fluid expression, gender and otherwise. I find it delightful, unexpected and when done joyfully, deeply appreciative. Thank you for sharing. I think I might have a new internet crush! If you ever need to run away to Canada... lol
Absolutely loved this video! Thank you for posting it. I'm a year late, but still a fantastic video!
Quick clarification: Just because you denounce or choose to act like or dress like another gender does not mean you can classify as a new gender. You can definitely *identify* as gender queer, go ahead, but in no way does that make you a new type of gender. There are only two genders: Male and Female (No, non-binary is not a gender it is the absence of one). Also for those who may bring up the point that sex and gender are two different things, they are not, just different words that mean exactly the same thing, search it up on the dictionary. If you really please to say that you are "gender-queer" or any other gender Tumblr fed to you, go ahead, but Gender is classified by sex organs, so if you desire to switch from male to female you have to switch those out (A quite simple procedure). You can easily identify as anything you want, but when it comes to gender, you have only two choices. Thank you and have a nice day.
Even scientifically gender and sex is complicated. https://sciencebasedmedicine.org/sex-gender-and-sexuality-its-complicated/
Contra's top 😍💙 Where can I find it??
THE DOCTOR !!!! That was unexpected and it killed me. I have just discovered your channel tonight and stayed up embarrassingly late to see more of your good good content. I'm really glad I discovered you now, it's amazing to see you share your journey! Thank you for that and for articulating a lot of things clearly many of us have difficulty doing, and to do so in a "fun breezy way". Those objections at the end are very poignant as well, because I have presented them to myself more than once, so hearing someone else countering them is pretty cool, def reading up what you suggest. I want to say more, but just know that I have been inspired by this video, in spite of your efforts.
Loving the light. And alles. :o
And I am a little green pixie
Objection #4. "It's just a simple scientific fact that there are only two genders."  It's the "simple" that jumped out at me.  It's true, in a simple, surface level way there are seemingly only two genders.  DING!  You get the fact achievement bucko!  But looking a bit further reveals the same goddamn thing that is surfacing everywhere:  EVERYTHING, UPON INSPECTION, IS MORE COMPLEX THAN WE WANT IT TO BE.   It shows that we're not as smart or have as much control as we believe.  DING!  I also get my "post-modern neo-marxist" achievement in the same post.
Love your hair in this vid
It's odd how your experience seems so similar to my own. Rejected queer identity for a long time until recently. Thank you for sharing your story. I understand a bit more about my self because of you.
I would like to engage in 1-on-1, polite discourse with another LGBT person (akin to ContraPoints) who is intelligent, educated about these subjects (important because I want to be confident I can trust your information as factual) and won't get offended/angry and dismiss me if I say something they disagree with.  The reason I want this is because I have come to some conclusions that are difficult or impossible to reconcile with mainstream LGBT rhetoric. They are the result of my *own* deep thought and contemplation on the subjects--I did not pick these up from some sh0eonhead knockoff.  I am trans, born male, and the lack of further clarification is actually related to my aforementioned conclusions. If anyone is interested in talking to me, what I am seeking is basically aid in reconciling these thoughts, either by making them compatible with the relevant LGBT rhetoric or conclusively rejecting it. I would like to use probably google hangouts or maybe discord/skype to converse--youtube comments are a bit too public to have a direct, legitimate exchange of ideas.
0:00 lol but it WAS just a phase
Spoilers!  It means gay.
Whoa. I think this video just helped me figure out that I'm genderqueer. I've always felt "rebellious" against traditionally masculine attributes but not disphoric enough to want reassignment. I feel like I would choose female if I could magically change right now though.  I never really thought about it too much but the overview this video gave speaks so much to my personal experience. I relate a lot with how you described your view of gender.  Thanks for sticking around on this shitty website and making nice content. :)
0:07 I drink taxes and pay my scotch. I LOLed xD
I find it interesting that body hair can be dysphoric, because I don't think it always is. For example, I am a cisgender straight woman, and I very rarely shave any of my body hair (yes, including armpits). I just feel like "If men aren't expected to do it, I shouldn't have to either." *shrugs*
Okay I was raised by two doctors and I nearly burst a lung guffawing at the hot dog segment. I love this video!
Oh dearie me.
I don't agree with this video one bit, but I really like you. Great personality, aesthetic, and humor. If only more SJWs were like you in trying to prove their points instead of name calling anyone who disagrees with them and running away to their safe space.
That doll scares me.
“I drink taxes and I pay my scotch”   Okay there is something definitely wrong with this statement—
As a white cis male, WHY THE FUCK IS THAT DOLL STARING AT ME!?!?!?
Finally! A calm, rational explanation.  Is a shame that the very special snowflakes complicate the matter.
I don't trust that doll
Fuck. I think I need to rethink some stuff
I was randomly thinking about what my parents would think if I made videos like yours and it struck me that I don’t imagine you as having any parents. Like in my head you’re an omnipresent being that just came into existence to educate us, which I suppose must be slightly objectifying, but I kinda like the idea that you could just be a goddess passing through. A deeply human flawed goddess just hanging out on the filthiest parts of the internet to laugh at us silly mortals with our silly ideas about “the coloureds, the gays, the trans” (not actually how I refer to the people who may exist within these groups), and maybe just to laugh at yourself as well.   Really what I’m trying to say is thank you, because laughing at us silly mortals, and laughing at yourself you silly mortal, has really helped me to understand many complex issues and has helped me articulate to others about these complex issues.  Like good job.  I feel like a proud mum, but I’m not a mum, and definitely not your mum, although I feel like I would be proud to be your mum.
you have my vote!
the muse that did not want to be inspiring.....
For those in the back that didn't hear it ""When you tell genderqueer people that we shouldn't have a word for ourselves, you're in effect asking us to drop the banner that allows us to understand ourselves, to find each other, and to collectively demand recognition and understanding. So telling us we shouldn't have a label is analogous to telling us we should shut up and disappear." <3
You just got a new subscriber :o I love the way you film, the way you explain things and your sense of humor !
Thank you for making this video - this is a narrative on gender I've never heard before and you made some excellent points! Collect all those labels!
I Am Genderqueer (And Who the #@%! Cares ? )
You listed a bunch of words for people who are counted as being under the umbrella of "genderqueer", including "agender" - "people who don't think of themselves as being any type of gender". So what would you call someone who doesn't feel like any particular gender (myself) but who also thinks that "gender" is an incoherent concept? I take it that this is separated from your meaning of the word 'agender', as I take it that you mean by 'agender' "someone who identifies as no particular gender, but in doing so, acknowledges that genders exist", whereas, I mean that I don't think the structure of the very concept of gender is logically coherent, thus I cannot ideantify as any gender. What would you say to all this? How would you categorise me?
It's amazing how whenever people say "there are only two genders" the fact that intersex people exist or that the goddamn world health organization and the american psychological assocation said that sex and gender aren't the same thing before gay marriage was legal, and that the majority of psychiatrists have followed suit somehow isn't enough to convince them.
This would be a perfect video if it weren't for the airhorns (sorry I hate airhorns with a burning passion)
Some of those youtubers in the beginning like Jaclyn, I’m subscribed to , but i don’t agree with everything they sag
I think I might be trans or nonbinary, but...I just don’t know what to think anymore. I feel so stressed out all the time, I think I just wanna die at this point. I don’t think I can kill myself because I’m too scared and I wouldn’t leave my husband alone to take care of the kids, but I don’t know what to do. I have a life for myself now — I have a family and a house and a job, but I don’t even know who I am. I wish somebody would’ve told me it’s OK to question yourself ‘cause now it just feels wrong. I feel like if I change now, everyone will be disappointed in me or think I’m doing it for attention...
That red dot is really fukcing with me
Saw you debate with blaire. Why  did you not call her out on the ableism? Autism needs no cure, we need societal acceptance. I know it wasn't the issue, but if you want a "cure" for autism you want to commit a form of genocide.That was a point that was valid and obvious
Pretty sure you can be gender queer while also being a mentally ill, alcoholic, perverted sexual deviant  those things neither preclude nor imply each other.
I'll let you decide, but the answer is yes.
"But I don't experience a lack of gender so much as an excess of it. I've just got too many fuckin' genders inside me; they're just fillin' me up deep inside."  Holy shit. This.
Hey, I've only recently found your channel (as in within the last few hours), but I've already subscribed and I look forward to seeing more of your content. The videos I've seen thus far have been insightful, informative, and extremely funny. As a new fan, thank you for putting up your work; It's already given me a lot of joy.
So different now...
Do I look like I know what an nb is I just want a picture of a got dang hotdog.
Even though Natalie came out as trans female, this is still one of my favorite videos as it has helped me my own identity. Plus it's really good to show people to help them understand.
did that doll have to be on the left, though
I'm a woman, and have been told I'm "very feminine", but I never DO anything to try to be feminine.  I never think about it.  I never wear makeup or do much with my hair or try hard to wear pretty clothes or sit like a lady or do any other feminine thing, and I often do/wear/think things that are traditionally masculine.  But I have the face/voice/body that tags me female instantly.  I don't think I care about gender at all, for myself, and kinda feel like maybe I'd be happier if I was a man, but no way could I pull it off and it isn't worth the trouble to fight the system for something that doesn't really matter much to me.  I don't know if I'm agender or if there's any particular name for what I am.  I have a hard time understanding why this is something important to anyone else (the idea of trying hard to express as any particular gender).  I want to be nice and not an insensitive dick about this issue, though.  It obviously must matter a lot to some people or they wouldn't go through what they do over it.   Guess I need to study up on it more.
Aww. June is just an idiot, be nice to them.
Ahhhh, seeing hotdog bits smashed and smeared into that wall socket is genuinely triggering my ocd.
I just found you and i can say that i fucking love you!
yaay!
I find it most annoying when its LGBT people who are upholding the strict gender binary and claiming that you have to be either a man or a woman
i love beethoven's "Grosse Fuge"!
Alright fine, I have been more ignorant than I want to admit...I will take all this into consideration.
gas!
🌭🌭🌭
I thought I was trans..... learning more about it has really just given me a head ache. Almost like now I just don't care about what I am. Thanks for that!
the scientific arguement saying that there's only two genders is flawed as there are more than two sexes.
Okay that dress though 💕
I secularly identify as a acute angle
Love the video I also consider myself genderqueer
*electrocutes self with hotdog.
I am cis scum. I am completely anxiety ridden. Your voice and eloquent use of the English language is like a symphony and removed my anxiety. Though it will be brief, because anxiety is an all encompassing devil....Thank you. ❤️ I subscribed.
I identify as genderflux 🏳️‍🌈 (currently)
I’m still catching up on all the Contra vids. I just love her!
2:00 lmfaoooo
You are so fricking cute. I love you!!  I stumbled upon this video and I'm so glad I did.
From one freak to another,  I love listening to you it's just great to hear someone who listens to all sides
I dont really see the use of having dozens of nonbinary gender labels. At that point you are trying to sort something so complicated as an identity into categories that are both too specific and ill defined at the same time. You could often sort one person into one category just as well as into another and people can have vastly different ideas of what someone means when call themselves a specific gender. If gender is a huge issue for someone it seems the most prudent in my mind to explain it in their own terms to people, if they want them to know about it, or use the non binary label.
So glad I found you from the Michael Brooks Show =)  also, I *love* your style and that red dress from your "transvestite" video? omg, wish I could pull that off!
9:55 Why you gotta drag Kierk?
i'm  sure once people see me on you tube and in public i will get nothing but negative comments your right why can't people have the right to be who they are and want to be with out being cast out of society as having mental issues or having other issues  i hate it i love everyone from transgender to transexuals and everyone in between even you rotten people who judge others
This was amazingly funny--and informative. Thank you!
(Beforehand i apologize for my english its not my motherlanguage) Very interesting to hear how you  learned  more about you´re gender identity and about the different phases you went through  ( Do i fit in the image  of trans people? Am i to... old, young,feminime maskuline etc etc)   i guess a lot of us trans* folks know these kinds of questions ;) But after a while we all recognise there isnt a specific way how  trans*persons are .Some trans* people are younger some are older. (I also have a lot of older friends who are nonbinary, two of them wanna marry next month :) ) Our society has to learn a  lot about us! There are so many different gender identities under the umbrella term trans* there are binary-, nonbinary people, Agender,etc .We all made different experiences and have different ways how we transition.  Just because youre a trans* man or a trans*woman doesnt necesscarilly mean you want to take hormones or you wanna underwent surgeries or have problems with your body ( some of us are fine with their bodies).And also a nonbinary person sometimes want to do hormone therapy or surgeries .There is no right or wrong way how to transition long as you feel right about it. I am a binary Trans* man i am out since i am 15 now i am 23 and a trans* activist :)  And dont worry about your shoulders you look perfect thereare also other women who have larger shoulders;) Which person has  a body who fits perfectly in our stupid society Norms? And just because it doesnt fit in the norm doesnt mean it isnt beautiful. Take care of yourself and dont take the people who selfdeclared themself as Genderpolice and saying stuff like only two genders, Adam and Eve not blabla too serious. Liebe Grüße aus Deutschland und lasst euch nicht unterkriegen von euren verrückten Präsidenten!Viele Trans*menschen aus Deutschland denken an euch!
I drink tax too *hiccup*
No one cares, pampered whiny dude.
DEVIANT. GO TO GULAG
PAMPERED priviledged white men and their BIZARRE FETISHES have wrecked havoc on women and children...NASTY, GREEDY WHITE MEN
... Wow.
Begining of the video showing youtubers  Me*I follow all of them*
8:17 This good, though I do not completely agree with the counter arguments for Objection 1 and 3.
Great vid , thanks
Fellow spatchcocked dandy here: i found this affirming and now im outraged/confused thx
You are my new favorite human. I have just watched a shit ton of your videos, and you're absolutely incredible.
I’m a heterosexual cis-white man. I have no idea why people in my position have difficulty accepting gender pronouns. My view has always been that I should afford mutual respect to someone I’m talking to, and if they tell me they prefer a certain pronoun it isn’t going to bother me. If someone says they prefer being called “Bob” instead of Robert they aren’t trying to trample free speech, they just want to be called the name they feel comfortable with. *IT ISN’T HARD TO RESPECT OTHER PEOPLE’S DECISIONS*
Why can’t you suffer like the rest of us? Grrr.
The world is a beautiful plaice full of nuances and amazing differences - thanks for a great video
Thank you for making this video.
😍😍😍❤❤
I literally rewatch your videos like a favorite tv show.
you rock. perfect videos. i found you through my partner watching you.
Hey...hey  *whispers* 2 genders
I love your masculine voice and sort of miss it after watching this now, but you do you! I was sort of expecting more description of the actual experience of being genderqueer though, as I used to think of myself as genderqueer, but I don't anymore and I'm not really sure what has changed, if anything. So was hoping to hear the more internal explanation of those things you mentioned like relating to other people, how you relate to your own body etc.
THERE ARE ONLY UNITY GENDERERERERERERRERERS!!!1 ;)
I like your voice, and I think your eyes are pretty. If we met at a party, I hope we could chill and drink and talk about anarchism. Please keep making your videos, they're great and you're beautiful.
2:41 "and" ?
*part -1*
@7:32 Interestingly enough I went through the "I'm just a cross-dresser" stage as well, for about 4-5 years, before  identifying as nonbinary
That doll in the background is just like, mm, hell no 😳
I love videos like this because it helps me defend myself and feel more confident when it comes to being out as nonbinary, thank you this is good to see
Instant subscribe
Goddamn thank you x500 for the PSA about the importance of freakiness
I’m a classically trained singer and I have a lot of dysphoria around my voice, and attribute some of that to how the music industry trained me to sing.  I really appreciate how you are able to respect your voice.  As a non binary person, I have felt like I had a lot of trouble passing and sometimes feel that people will see a disconnect between my feminine voice and my more androgynous presentation. When I watch your content I seem to associate your voice with you and sense no disconnect between the way you present and your voice. It has made me re-evaluate the way I believe society sees me, and the importance I put on “passing” as androgynous and non binary.
Omg. I can't believe I just found this video. Preach, hun. I'm AFAB but entirely empathise with this from start to finish.
This honestly made me realize i'm not trans, i'm just non binary(probably genderfluid)
*collects all the pronouns*
you are a man with gender dysphoria
Oh look! It's HowToBasic
Fun fact: attack helecopter gender jokes have been around since 2010. Meaning. This joke has been around for 8 years. Meaning anti-sjws need to FIND NEW JOKES.
That fucking doll
When talking about examining a wide range of experiences, I'd say great, but treat anyone younger than 18 with caution at best or a grain of salt at worst. I'm not trying to give some contrived patronizing bullshit about how teens are "just confused" or "just at that stage in their life", but I am gonna say this: kids and teens are dumb. Like, really really fucking dumb, but that's kind of the point of being young. You make dumb mistakes and say dumb shit and either learn from it through inquisition and "help" from others or you become a very dumb adult. Summarized: give greater credence to the person with a calm rational manner first before you end your journey into gender politics and identity with some kid who's just learning about it for the first time and decided to post about it on social media (y'know, like kids do)
O.K were do you go from this am a cross dresser that like to be a women but to old.
Corellon Larethian, God of the Elves was androgynous, both male and female until he met Araushnee (Lolth) and decided to become wholly male in order to mate with her... Just putting it out there I don't know why...
youre a delight, and as another genderqueer person i relate to a lot of how you see yourself and the identity itself. im so glad i found your channel. also your doll in the background is creepy
that fucking doll in the other room is staring into my soul. I'M FREAKING OUT MAN.
I know it's been almost a year since you posted this, but I'm necocommenting anyway. +1 on everything you have said. I had many (many, many) similar feelings and experiences, including being okay with some aspects of my assigned gender. Be true to yourself. It's okay to collect them all. Don't let the Truscum or HBSers get you down.  And beware of the fnords.
But! She (i mean the other girl (with black hair)) said Non-Binary isnt nothing! That means it is something!
Even when I didn't know about this whole thing with genders, hearing that "there can be only two genders and that's a fact" seemed very similar to "you can't be born in the wrong body" or "it's impossible to be naturally left handed".
That fucking doll peeking in the door behind you! I kept watching it to see if it was gonna move or do something creepy.
Please hide that creepy doll. It's scaring the sh*t out of me.
that shirts still pretty as fuck
You make up the perfect human being. Wish there were more people like you in this world. ❤️
I am a biological woman and i have periods and I look a mess sometimes and I just resent the fact that becoming a woman is now becoming synonymous with putting makeup on, doing your hair, wearing a dress, shaving your legs and walking in heels. Its like fuck me i may as well be barbie. That don't make me a terf though, i am fully supportive of trans but also entitled to this opinion.
I think I'm in love?
2:10
Fuck everybody who dislikes this video.
It means you are deeply mentally ill.
<3
okay, but the real question is: which horoscope sign(s) do you identify as?
My favorite pronouns: dude, bro, brodude, d-bro.  You so beautiful, girl she.
I'm coming from a genuine and not argumentative or hateful place. When you talk about collectively demanding recognition and understanding do you mean as part of the larger LGBT+ community or as a specific subset? I think sometimes things get a bit muddled between the personal and public. Like, if someone in my life like a friend or co-worker was non-binary, I would make the effort to understand how he/she/they identified and what pronouns I should use. But sometimes it feels like in the context of the larger culture it's difficult to sort through all the labels and I do feel like it's still a very confusing space for a lot of people as they struggle to find the label that feels right. I don't want to practice erasure and yet it can be a bit exhausting when there are so many specific labels to describe a personal experience that doesn't affect the baseline of treating people as human beings worthy of respect and decency.
Yo the doll is CREEPY.
That hog dog demonstration was still better than Catholic School
I love this video! I didnt love that creepy doll though.
I DEMAND A DUO VIDEO WITH HBOMBERGUY :O
It's sad to watch someone's descent into insanity.
I've been marathon in your videos. I adore your lighting setups. So vaporwave.
I will NOT stop being inspired!! You bring so much clarity, wisdom and beauty (and humor) to youtube, I really appreciate your content. I'm afab, nonbinary, transmasculine, whatever, and I really relate to being dysphoric but not wanting to try to conform to society's idea of ""passing"" I like a lot of the attributes I was born with, (tho HRT would be nice) and I wish others would associate them not with a construct of femininity but with me as an individual, and associate them with masculinity by proxy because I have a masc identity. Its hard to talk about that or ask people to make that mental shift though because people often take it as a personal attack and act like I'm forcing them to make this monumental change to suit my whims. Is it that people don't understand the basic concept that relationships are founded on mutual respect and understanding and require a little effort to make them work or do they just fuckin hate trans/queer people too much to make the effort to treat us like people?? also you pass rly well wtf
The sausage science in this video was unethical. Pigs were harmed in the making of this hilarious example.
The beginning was amazing 😂
Thank you. This was very helpful.
**No, seriously, what does he/she want to have sex with? Either, both, none of them above?**
**Correction: the Chinese language doesn't have a specified gender neutral pronouns. However, it doesn't matter in speaking, because all singular third person pronouns are pronounced the same. Unless clarified, it is understood that the sex/gender isn't relevant or important in the conservation. And even in writing, the male third person pronouns are used as the substitute for gender neutral third person pronouns. And the excessive use as third person gender pronouns to refer to people is discouraged, as it will lead to confusion, such as "he give her a gift."**
I love your channel. It's nice to know I'm not the only self-loathing, agnostic atheist, gender fluid, dank meme queen who crawled out of the cesspool that is the chanosphere. All that's missing is half-black, autistic, unattractive, woefully out of shape, and living in the heart of Europe. "The alt-right *hates* them! Find out how they toppled western civilization by *simply existing!"*
You really like Sarabande. ;D
Just out of curiosity, you have some preferences in terms of dating? (Or just fantasising, if you don't date, whatever)
Good video. I appreciate the honesty. I find it hard to deal with what appears to be criticism from all sides, when it comes to *overwhelmingly common* issues. I can't imagine what it's like for you. I'm not even sure whether to sign this with a mention of my cishet white guy status for the purpose of using my privilege to benefits others, or if I should keep that part out because allyship can be better done by exposing oneself to similar accusations as the person I'm supporting, or because it's better to normalize everything by not specifying, or because the possible appearance of empty virtue signaling could be discrediting. Oi.
Hey so thanks for making this vid for me to chew on and then return to after literal years of lying to myself (I know you don't really identify with genderqueer anymore, but it's still helped me a lot)
I identify as a non binary attack helicopter which means on some days i wake up as a transport helicopter and some days i wake up as an attack helicopter. On the days that i wake up as an attack helicopter i lets my missles show and my guns show but on the days when i wake up as a transport helicopter i cover all that stuff if with a sports cover and look like  something different that im not. In the beginning of time there were two kinds of people 1 with a vagina and 1 with a penis. Now dont go and get butthurt but all these new terms like Genderfluid were created for people that can just accept what they were given in between their legs at birth and wanna make then feel better but the fact of it is is that you are a Woman because you were genetically born with a vagina in between you legs not a penis. So you can say ohhh i feel like being a guy and hiding my breasts and looking more manly no even transgenders cant change what they actually are you are what your were at birth and you cant change that and if you need to know what a male and female look like and how they function at night then whatch how children are made because thats the only two genders in the world.
"Only when we recognize that "manhood" and "womanhood" are made-up categories, invented to control human beings and violently imposed, can we truly understand the nature of sexism, of misogyny, of the way we are all worked over by gender in the end." -Laurie Penny.
I'd love to see an update on this!  What changed in the last few months to make you decide to transition?
I’ve been hiding behind intersex label as away of expressing and defining who I am. But after trying to comprehend this whole video I think I’ll go back to square one. So for tonight I’ll define myself a something who is undefinable.  No I’m transgender, no bigender, no that doesn’t fit. Oh heck just call me Hannah, because not mater how you look at the word Hannah I see myself the same way.
“GRAH! GUR BDURR MAH!” “Thank you doctor”
You said your reason for feeling genderqueer was experiencing a bit of dysphoria but not wanting to transition, enjoying "women's" clothing and not liking body hair.  So my question is this, what stops you from being a male with those characteristics? What about those characteristics changes your gender?
Honestly. This video really just helped me put to words shit that I have spend forever trying to understand about me. There are like 800 ways I want to thank you right now
Can maybe, Bowie and Prince be considered as genderqueer?
So basically you're comfortable as a "guy" or "gal" and dress accordingly? (Quotes cause I think that may be oversimplifying but genuinely trying to understand.)
G E N D E R T R E A S O N
PS Is this strange - you look a little like Winona Ryder!
I love that creepy doll hanging in the dark room behind you!  You are very entertaining and funny.  Thank you for your down to earth - don't stop your brilliant commentary friend.  xxv
Your comedy is on point. Yes, I like the sound of your voice and that dress looks great on you. That damn doll is creepy though.
being human is a social and psychological construct.
This shit made me laugh so hard.  I feel a lot like you do; my gender is just kind of in the middle, and I don't give a god damn about what pronouns people use.  It's so hilarious how some people get so hung up on an issue that really shouldn't have to be a big deal.  Love your videos dude, keep up the good work!  I know I'll keep watching.  :D
baa hahahahahhahaha that was awesome!
I really want your shirt
I fucking love you like omfg :D
Youre a man dressed as a woman. Sorry, but that's what you are. Doesn't make you bad, or invalid, but it's just reality. Gender and sex are the same thing. No one suggested they werent until 1948 and that was not widely accepted by the medical communtiy. What you are telling us is what you believe, not what is realistically true.
Intersex people prove their is no such thing as two genders.
My partner has just came out to me as a trans female. It started with them saying they thought they were gender fluid but then a month later felt they were fully trans. They are 32 yrs old. And made no action towards transitioning out of fear for were we live :(
I love your outfit and necklace , where did you get them ?
2:07 hahahaha omg I'm dying
You look amazing !
i've only seen pics of you and thought you were a cis woman.
It pains me to admit,  I'm trans...  and for a while I got very aggravated for a long time at non binary folks.  I felt like the whole thing was well,  sort of an assault on who I was.  I feel terrible about how angry I used to get.
Im here laughing my ass of, subscribed!
Awe she is adorable!
This is the besttt ♡
LOL "hot-dog biology". I'm definitely using that one in my next argument! x
Great Video! Found you through Philosophy Tube, and I gotta say, you are a freaking GEM!!! BTW Love the Pokemon bit there!
oh my god I just found you and I love you! keep up the good work (even though you won't read this) you're hilarious!
Fuck! I’ve never “loved” an artist before!  i’m in my mid-twenties and you popped my obsessive fan cherry you! Shit this sucks.    Fuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuck P.S. I love you and you deserve to be happy.
Informative, thanks! I’ve been interested but not really enough to google a bunch of stuff. Your videos are dope
I absolutely love your dress.  Also totally crushin', can't lie <3
You should be ashame of yourself... Those poor hotdogs were innocent, you monster.
I know I'm 7 months or so late but I HAVE to know where that shirt is from I need it
why the DOLL THO? WHAT IS THIS?
I can't stand the "Science says two genders" argument. One day, I was really dysphoric and this girl, who regularly saw my trans posts and let me be, decided to attack me on the worst possible day. I didn't want to fight, so I just left references from the APA, World Health Organization, Harvard school of Anthropology, and Dr. Anne Fausto-Sterling of Brown University which explained that both biological sex and psychosocial gender were much more complex than she claimed. As someone who has been studying mental health and cultural anthropology my entire life, and am making a career out of it, I'm tired of people trying to do my job for me and either claiming trans people were mentally ill or that our Western binary was a human universal. Thank you so much for this video. I've used it to help both people who never learned about gender complexity as well as friends who are non-binary who struggle with validating how they feel.
I can definitely understand how people can feel like they are both genders. I feel like I'm in the middle of the gender spectrum myself. I don't understand how someone can be agender. It feels like asking someone if they are an extrovert or introvert and they say neither. How is that even possible?
Yay
Excuse me sir/madame, I just want to say that your dress and haircut is really lovely. And for you to have a good day.
Dude, you know how to use make up. But, you should work on the lighting. The lighting you use is cold, and some shades it casts on your skin make it look like you haven't shaved. Look closer at 1:01...
David Bowie, Annie Lennox, Prince, Michael Jackson, Grace Jones, Freddie Mercury we're all at times androgynous. These are some of my favorite musicians. I started watching your channel because of how intelligent and detailed your descriptions of the Freddie Gray tragedy and also your criticism of Neo-Nazi inspired hate groups calling themselves the alt right. I don't care what you look like. You also have a brilliant sense of humor.
inspired <3
Oh also, I am okay with calling someone 'she , he or they' but I think things like xi/xir , etc is too much.
I know this is way past the time this was posted, but I still have a hard time grasping 'nonbinary' . I do think that there are people who fall more outside of the gender norm, and are not necessarily trans, but I also think part of it lies in having a narrow idea of what each gender really is. I also believe that there are people who have negative associations with either gender, or don't want to take the label because of all the heavy crap that is placed on it.   I have met people who , to me, were obviously their birth gender, but maybe they cut their hair , or something else minor like that, then claimed to be nonbinary. I mean maybe they are just figuring themselves out. But if it looks like a duck and quacks like a duck I call it a duck. Again, I am not one of these people who denies there are people who fall outside what we think of male and female, but some people who don't still claim the nonbinary label.   I also may be saying this because I used to have nonbinary feelings, but always realized I am very very feminine overall, I just am not motherly, and have an attraction to more feminine people.
I’m new to this channel and I appreciate your perspective. I think you express a movement away from judgement in a fun way. I hope you grow in your confidence ya glorious betch
I love you ♥️♥️♥️  Platonically :D
I think i am genderfluid (biologically male) because it’s like every week at least once day or even more I feel really feminine and I hate my body then all of a sudden I feel normal again and I’m okay again it’s been really shitty most of my life because I couldn’t explain all these feelings I have
I Love you So much right now....
Its just a simple scientific fact that there are only 2 genders
Oh.... OH!  .... oh.
Man, I shat my mind! I love it <3
congrats on coming out and figuring urself out! its not easy for any of us i think.
You are a man and you can identify as whatever you want, why is that reality any problem?
https://youtu.be/gjdrujVXnao
Contra your so cool! I have only watched 2 of your videos and feel I have found a voice of reason that I have been looking for. Thank you!
phases are under rated, being a child is just a phase but that doesn't mean it's somehow not real or meaningful.
I LOOOOVE this video.
subscribed! this is cool
Excuse me sir or man or what ever the hell you are but you have a mental disease probably caused by the unnecessary amount of alcohol you consume
How did you get the sausage out of the electricity plug?
I used to be a SJW and then I got 'redpilled' but I felt like I was somewhat in an echo chamber so I've been watching your vids and really like them. I disagree with you 50% of the time but you really made these issues we often dismiss as SJWs being triggered much more complex than I thought they were :)
It's just a simple scientific gender that there are only two facts.
I just discovered your channel and I think I might love you.  Seriously.
I honestly came here because I was curious because I've seen a lot of hate on both sides of the political spectrum. I surprisingly enjoyed this aha. I have no idea about any of this gender stuff. It's not something I personally ever think about, especially in regards to myself, I just live. It's just really interesting to listen. I hope this wasn't disrespectful. I like the way you did the video, I think it is pretty good))
"I'm just not an inspiring person stop being inspired." Oh, no, I can't help it the inspiration is too powerful!!!!
haha liked that video, greetings from a bigender :D
This resonates a lot with how I feel. I have recently started the process of transitioning (changed my name, but haven't started HRT yet, as I need to go through a series of interviews at the hospital first). I'm probably a little gender fluid, as I feel my gender identity changes a little from time to time, but it leans heavily in the direction of female. It tends to fluctuate between "I'm fine where I am with make-up and long hair and stuff and this whole hormones and surgery thing is just too much of a hassle" to "I desperately want to go all the way"
11:24 i was gonna say no, now i can just say how can someone so intelligent and self aware be so little convincing, you think if you rise a child out of society is gonna have transgender disphoria or whatever? so being a transgender is about how it affects you?, should i make a movement about 145 iq males kinda socially impired with kinda self esteem problems and kinda narcistic who live with their moms couse absolutely hate and cant get involved in society, pretty much fucking pussies bla blaba apache helicopter blabla you get the point? whats the fucking difference, numbers? there is no fucking difference mate there isnt its fucking horrible to be a 145 iq person in this world and if there was a pill to lower mine and become socially stable and fucking have a propeller on the top of my head i would take it, but i wouldnt fucking want it to affect anyone else, beggening by having them to name me apaccio and ending with having them to pay for the pill. If you have a dick you should pee wit hthe dicked ones and if you have an xy chormosome or whatever the fuck the correct tems are it should say male on your id. we can agree that people with gender disorders like hermaphroditism are more conflictive, you fucking shouldnt be though
"i dont experience a lack of gender so much as an excess of it. I've just got too many fuckin genders inside me" lmao this is an excellent way to put genderqueer-ness when explaining it in contrast with agender-ness.
So does that mean attraction towards u is gay no matter the gender of who’s feeling it? OwO
I don't understand the bonkers obsession of cis people with gender identity of people they will likely never met anyways. Live and let live.
I drink taxes
I've always seen gender as a spectrum with two sides, and so when people said "non binary" I always thought they were referring to being on some third side of a spectrum or something that has nothing to do with the masculine feminine dichotomy, and so I thought the whole thing was stupid. I believe this video proves me wrong though, which is honestly nice because I wouldn't consider myself very gender conforming.
Thank you for framing my own reticence on these matters so well. I will remain in the closet for a month or so yet and do not intend to start a channel till I'm well out of it. Thank you for demonstrating it is is practical to be honest, though.
WEEEEEEEERK
New to your channel and loving it; gotta say, as a 28 year old genderqueer who has always had difficulty explaining this nebulous shifting dunescape of an identity to other people I'm just going to relax now and carry a link to this video around with me at all times.
Saying something is "non-binary" indirectly reaffirms the "binary". Why do you need to legitimize the categories at all?
5:40 Fantastic point about "pre-satirizing yourself so bullies don't get to have the fun of insulting you." I do that a lot myself but never really had a way to describe why I do it.
I love you oh my god, you are stunningly beautiful and you are the person I'm aiming to be
YASSSSSS FELLOW GENDERQUEER YAAAASSSS
That doll is wanting to kill u
I really feel like many trans-activists overly complicate this scientific phenomena with redundant labels. Everyone's experience of gender can be broken with two questions:   1) Do you identify with any particular biological sex or associated socially constructed gender identity and if so, which do you feel is the same as you?   The only applicable answers here are Yes/No: males, females, both or neither.   2) Do you desire to express your gender and if so, do you desire to gender express in a way that others will recognize either your biological sex, your gender identity, both, or neither.   This really does cover the entirety of all labels.
You don't live near the southern Ohio do you? You seem like a fun person to hang out with. Wanna play board games with a complete stranger and a complete stranger's wife?
JacklynnGlenn & ShoeOnHead, lol!
i hate facial hair too omg annoying 3x a day remove remove remove any non drug way?
i see a red dot on the camera on my note 8 just saying you were very informative and thankyou!
yep biqueer and gay for me love the dress btw and nails and everything
those people were mean and raw ether lol i wish i had some of that now also im gay and gender queer
*keeps trying desperately to pay attention* the Doll: *S T A R E  I N T O  T H E   V O I D
It means to me "this is how I psychologically feel about my sex, irrespective of the physical fact of my gender." And why should I say that's an incongruity, like I know how the human mind should be? Nah, not me. But I still think I can respect your right to do Anything that hurts no one and not be held by any positive obligation to agree. I think if more could see that tolerance doesn't mean condoning, maybe they'd be less scared of allowing others to discover the benefit and harm of lifestyles by their own merits, and not just some zealot's testimony. But do know that I have the utmost admiration for your intellect, your eloquence, and I certainly resonate with your irreverence. Lord knows. I don't even agree with myself from day to day.. there is no one with which I will always agree - on everything. I can disagree and still admire. That's why I bothered to say it in prose.
I'm not up on the whole pronoun thing. May I just call you 'fabulous' instead?
I'm confused, and would really love to see you do an updated commentary on this video specifically.
That creepy fucking doll in the corner though lol
Truth has a way of working on us.
I actually used this video AT WORK today to explain what Im about to do to our Directors...  Im amazed. They got it after watching this segment. They didnt get it with my previous 6 months of trying to explain "what the fuck was going on".  THANKS! Contra.
There arent just two genders :x X, xx, xy, xxx, xxy, xyy
Well dammit, I'm inspired.
Google is actually how I came across genderqueer and non binary which is what I now identify as. (To clarify I use genderqueer and non binary interchangeably. At first non binary felt too loose so I used genderqueer. Somewhere along the line genderqueer started feeling off so I now use non binary.)
Thanks for the explanation! You are gorgeous, BTW! Love ya and take care.
<3
you are a doll 💋
Your weirdness works for you
OMG, you are brilliant!
You are exceptionally beautiful and what you call freakishness I see as rarity. You're like a diamond calling itself a freak among rocks.
I feel so bad that my children have to grow up in this world
"I don't bang dudes" *snaps* darn
Talking about your feelings like a gay is excellent :D you’re such a gorgeous person and I love this video!
this was a really long way of saying you like dresses and dolls
This actually really cleared up a lot of questions i had about non-binary gender expression.   As a Trans-Woman myself I didn't really understand the expression of non binary gender. My own gender expression has always been VERY much female and I think it's quite easy to fall into the habit of thinking everybody thinks like you do.   I have a few non-binary online friends but i didn't wan't to press them for details for fear of bringing up personal details they may not be comfortable talking about.
Thank you.
so you're not gay ....  could've fooled me with all that leftist bs
The voice is wonderful and female when you're looking lovely and feminine, masculine on the voice over, remaining very appealing.
Is it transphobic to just ... not care?I mean, given that it's based in how you see yourself and express that self-perception, if I just said that I wasn't interested, that's ok, right?
Whenever you make a Kierkegaard reference, you fill my heart with love. <3
this was so great intelligent cute funny and wow u r so well-spoken yur amazing
*sees clip of sausage being poked into light socket*  no thank u :(  also i wonder if that is dangerous
You totally pass as a woman and I thought you were a woman when I started watching your videos 3 days ago (though I haven't gone through your older videos yet).
who gives a shit what boxxy says about gender
Yeah, yeah dude looks like a laaydeh, yeah yeah dude looks like a laydah!
You a sexy girl tho
The first time I mentioned you to my friend, I rapidly switched confusingly between 'he' and 'she' and made them quite confused thinking I was talking about two people, then I said I didn't know what pronouns you use, turns out I extremely accurately guessed.
