This video is deliberately ambiguous, so those of you hoping to get a straightforward answer about whether it's okay to punch Natsees may want me to clarify what I actually think. If you prefer ambiguity then just don't read this.  Basically I lean toward the bourgeois liberal side of this argument, though I understand there are some compelling arguments in favor of anti-fascist violence. I think most of us agree that anti-fascist violence is sometimes necessary, the real disagreement is about what sorts of situations justify it. I tried to present the strong points of both sides in this video. But ultimately my goal wasn't really to provide an answer to the question about the ethics of Natsee-punching. Mostly I wanted to depict the dysfunctional ways people on the left talk to each other.
The talking over each other part... lol
The line about minorities being loaded on trains is really chilling now
This was the last hold out in your videos that I somehow hadn't seen. Finally watched it after watching many of your videos multiple times. Love your channel.
that was pretty fuckin funny
Oh there is  also a new right wing you tube comerical for epoch news, attacks the media with trumpatudes about fake news. he's well dressed, quiet and seems believable if you believe all trump's lies. If you have not seen him you may want to check him out.
Almost afraid to comment on this one. It was wrong but it was a good feeling seeing a alt right fascist get punched. I know it's not the answer but the alt right is using our laws and beliefs against us mixed in with a healthy dose of lies, propaganda, half truths and double speak.  I live in a county that is very right wing (need to get out of here) but I don't believe 99% would take up arms against America but they worship trump and fox like they are the anointed of god. It's hard to debate with people that deny factual evidence such as trumps own documents words. I am very much in favor of Democray and Free speech but free lies, not so much. Your point is well made. But it was still fun seeing him get tagged :p
Not saying that I'd want Natalie (@ContraPoints) to watch the video again, but I'd love to see her revisit this in light of the concentration camps that ICE/BP have.
LMAO 13:07 "You look like your mom dropped you off at a Green Day concert in 2003 and your Hot Topic eyeliner looks like shit."
Holy shit! Fuking brilliant
i can empathize with centrists, but it reaches the extent where their definitions of violence and harm are simply not wide enough to adequately address long term systemic issues. its easy to be a centrist when atrocities are lawful. punching someone who, for example- might be deliberately and unnecessarily withholding food+resources in order to perpetuate a class heirarchy and benefit from forcing others into a lifetime of struggle- would certainly be considered an obvious solution, but systemic issues like housing, healthcare, foodstamps, etc, are too coded for a centrist approach to lead to any desirable course. a centrist approach pretty much infers looking at the world as if it's devoid of the thousands of years of context that made unnecessarily-terrible conditions so easy and acceptable to enforce.
i personally feel like those who advocate violence here make Martin Luther king jr cry in his grave.  then again, the extreme left doesn't seem to care about such a great man anymore. saw a Black college Dean who was retiring get shouted down for not pushing a violent diversity agenda hard enough, and when trying to calm them down he quoted king, and the crowd said "screw that guy, none of that shit matters now" as a Historian myself, that really hurt me personally, hearing that.... sad days when at a college they spit on one of the greatest men in history.  what happened to education?
"I'll kill your face off." Best line ever. Followed by the best scene ever, pure genius!
2:03  OMG, this has aged so badly
This video hasn’t aged well... what with trump actually having concentration camps now 😂
Holding a hammer makes you look 20% more masculine.
"Donald Trump is not part of a fringe group." "But he's not exterminating anyone." what it would be like to be back in 2017 and not have concentration camps forming again on US soil
"and that's when the Pharaoh tells me how i'm going to die."  gold right there.  i had no idea contrapoints embarked on a spiritual journey with ayahuasca for inspiration, but i would play that VR video game, and can we please get more random stories like these!
sooooooo goooood!
As if communists were much better than Nazis....
its 2019 and immigrant children are being put in cages. this video didn't age  well
Wow, nice guns.  Also I want you in a gay way back in these vids and in the new vids I want you in a straight way. Gosh it's all such a web that we weave :) If you ever come to Australia..... #justsayin
This one I liked
It puts the lotion in the basket!!!!!!!
I know you're the wrong gender in this, but holy hell you make a hot punk radical. I'm sorry. I'll show myself out now.
So here's what I think about the whole "white pride" thing: if it's framed as "pride in being white" then that's a problem, because there is really nothing substantial about the concept of "white". It just either means you're proud of... your ethnic traits (which is fucking stupid, obviously) or you're proud of belonging to the social group defined as "white" (aka, I guess because I'm not American, WASPs). However, I am proud of my culture, which is widely understood as white. I'm proud of being from a certain region of Italy, where incidentally most people are white, but I'm not proud of whiteness, and I'm not ashamed about it either. I'm proud of the culture I was born into, the arts and music and the fact that we can still excel while being governed by fucktrumpets and while our youth bleeds out towards locations abroad. I'm basically proud of my people, of the culture we created, exactly like a Chinese person might be proud of their own culture, or a Japanese person might be, or a Polish person might be, or a Native person might be proud of their own tribe and the resilience of their own people. In this framing, pride makes sense. But again, there is no inherent reason to be proud of being white. So, for white Americans, it makes sense to be proud of being American. Which makes sense, of course, and I support it as long as pride doesn't translate to thinking one is better than anyone else.
I recently found your videos and I've been binge watching them. I got a little wrapped up in the SJW hysteria a few years ago, but thankfully I got bored of the whole topic and went back to focusing on my studies. But now, after wtching your videos, and a with a little more maturity, youe videos have really made me change my mind about a lot of things. . . Thank you, Contra!
I can't believe how anyone took this seriously - I mean obviously spencer was being punched _ironically._ I mean seriously, people can't even take a joke to the face anymore.
<3
Wait THATS how you pronounce bourgeois?!?!?!?!!?!?!
This video is fucking gold!
this video plays a little differently in 2019 now that there are concentration camps again....   Always punch Nazis 2k19
Except we do have concentration camps now
You seem to make a point that brings white dialogue to the center such that they don't have to listen to the brown folks they casually dismiss here. I guess you're trying to destroy their points on their own terms, but ... maybe invalidate white tears a bit more?
Didn't the bolsheviks systematically murder 12 million? Before 1933? Kind of changes everything. Doesn't it?
Another thing. Those "radical leftist" are the fuel for radicalism on the right. With, "omg they're violence scares me further into my radical right beliefs."   Still though, punching nazis is at least therapeutic.
Brilliant
Oh man... This one hurts.. Donald Trump IS killing people in camps at the border right now... It's happening. :(
Bruce es hermoso *o*
>now you're giving me too much credit    fuckin' lol
The "this is politically correct bullshit" feeling I have was actually what led me to discovering leftism and class analysis, funnily enough.
I think one point this video misses is who really and truly hauls off and punches a Nazi is not the beanie wearing manifestation. It's people that have been in a gang. People that have unironically used the term ride or die and have carried a gun in their gym shorts. Underneath the liberal base is a deep foundation of hardened economically and culturally marginalized people. The bourgeois isn't really scared of Antifa. If they have half a brain they're scared of the LA rioters. The system can only push people down so far and acquit so many cops before cars start getting set on fire and bullets start flying. The right wing has their own ruralized version of this under the base base in the form of poor mostly white (but not all) survivalists. The left and right both have poor dissaffected voters that will punch and shoot when you get too close. I highly doubt the guy who punched Spencer has ever read Kamu. Anyone who talks the wrong trash in the wrong neighborhood be it East LA or West Virginia is putting themself in real danger. Spencer's mistake was stepping foot outside the Sheraton lobby with his nonsense. Personally I am a liberal. And prioritize liberal issues. But on this particular topic I defer to common sense. I think both egos in this video forgot to take the psychosis of the hood and paradoxically the sticks into account. If I wore a shirt saying "I hate n*****s" on the west side of any town and got shot. Well its not a characterization of modern liberal philosophy. It more falls under the rubric of no shit Sherlock. As a n analysis of Contrapoints own internal struggle the video is perfect. And articulated beautifully as always. Anyway. Just my .02 cents.
This is actually a modern Platonic dialogue for the internet age.
Wotan’s Farewell from Die Walkure! One of my favourite parts of the Ring.
this is the dumbest shit I've ever seen/heard
Well done, subscribed.
Look at the freak brain washed with joo influenced sexual degeneracy. LMAO !!!!!!!
I don’t usually say this.  But.  You are a genius.
“Cis white man” lmfao 😂😭😂
9:58 - 11:15   Former right winger here. She's right. Before ContraPoints I pictured all left wingers as blue haired screeching trust fund kids smashing windows. Her videos critiquing the left and decrypting the alt right really helped me flip sides.   Smashing people in the face only creates sympathy from people looking in from the outside. You inadvertently create more fascists
You know what my biggest problem with Antifa is? They use their fists instead of guns.
I will anal suck u
I'm extremely attracted to your antifa character
Lmao I know this was supposed to be ambiguous, but I was rooting for the Comrade all the way. always punch natsees ❤️
Yup, don't become the very thing you're fighting against thinking it's just some means to an end.   You don't want to be like some so-called Christians who think the armor of God is literally firearms, for example.   Humility things like turn the other cheek and whatnot are powerful for a reason. It might seem stupid, but not if you think it through to completion and realize that we're all pretty stupid in the grand scheme of things.
you all are some dumb asses!!!!!
Let's say that most sociopaths are OK, but a few of them are deluding non sociopaths. Then if we win the majority of ordinary people back so the SP's don't have an army they won't resent by being forced. Left and right tried to suppressed each other since forever and we still have the problems, so violence hasn't worked. Maybe we need a more scientific approach. There does seem to be breakthroughs in every discipline and answers seem to be coming from everywhere. Times have changed and history can't be stopped. I just hope we don't have to go through some really bad times before we get it all sorted out. Obviously neither side has all the answers. We need to take new directions, not more of the same old, same old. New directions economically, politically, socially, oh heck in every way. That seems to me where the answer lie and not in the old way that haven't worked well enough.
Political violence is never justified.
ah yes, this video is clearly made by a cis. an entire cisgender. one whooole        cis   every time she called herself a white cis man i whiplashed so hard at the sheer egginess of it all
NW infamous, excoriatingly harsh critic of NW   -->  *Epic* *bare-knuckle* *dialogue* *battles* *of* *history* .
I’m attracted to you in every character you do WHY
Damn it I thought my friend was calling, come to find out it's just your intro :)
You really improved a lot since you became more fabulous.
Hey boy with commi badge I’ve witnessed contra take a massive hit for the team enduring what seemed like an endless debate (?) with Blair White. You should get a meddle for that Lady Contra because you kept your cool under duress. I on the other hand wanted to...well egg her - I was truly seething.
In Australia we egg them. I’m pretty happy to go with that.
"Tell that to the women who are going to die from their botched back alley abortions." Fucking Alabama.
"Are you even a real punk, you look like your Mom dropped you off at a Green Day concert..." LMAO - I LOVE YOU!!!!
the most necessary of thought experiments, if the left anhilate each other the right wins by default
I highkey agree with the communist lmaooo
Jaki kurwa popierdoleniec.
Mom... Dad...  please stop fighting...
The first rule of the framing device: don't interrogate the framing device.
if we can show that punching nazis is at all an effective way to reduce nazi feelings then it is justified. If it cannot or will make them worse then it is unjustified. this, for me, boils the question down to a practical one rather than an abstract ethical one
"But what you need to understand is that you're a cis white man..." — Pre-trans Natalie, 2017
I’d say this is the best contrapoints video I’ve ever seen
racism is not a political opinion. nazis do not want to sit and calmly debate with you. racists do not want to listen to your rational argument on why they are wrong. they want to spread their hatred, and enforce it through violence, murder, subjugation, and oppressive hierarchies. please stop trying to be fair to them, they arent rational. its not rational to hate someone based on something they cant change or control.
Omg this video is so stressful
I think that was my favorite arguing with ones self videos.  It impresses me from an editing perspective as well as a debating one
Classic!!!
This is gay
I think the way to combat fascism is to change the culture. We should make Nazis the villians in movies, and books, but not in the context of world war 2. Set it in the modern day, and have the villan mouth off about race realism. Establish two Nazi archetypes.   1. The attractive, privileged, intelligent,but angry incel. Think of Elliot Rodger without the autism. Portray them as violent and vengeful towards all the people fascists hate. Emphasize their lack of success with who they want to date.   2. The toxic hyper-masculine pua/ sexual predator. Think of the golden one mixed with a the touchy feely frat guy from college. Have him disregard women in all ways especially when it comes to consent. Portray him as violent as well, but more in a performative sense, usually to prove his masculinity to an audience. Emphasize the emptiness that comes with toxic masculinity. Portray him as rich and successful, especially with having sex with women, but broken inside which contributes to his fascist beliefs.
Punching Nazis on the street in public only gives them rhetorical ammunition.  Killing them silently and anonymously in the middle of the night does not.
"You're a cis white man!" Cute
Bruce, pearls, did you read a Batman comic?  Contra, you fiend, what does it mean!?!
When I watch Natalie's old videos it looks like a girls impression of a boy lol.  She was always femme as fuck
I know this is supposed to be a nuanced debate and both sides have issues but I'm definitely more pro the-one-with-the-hammer
I think we should use any means to stop fascists from having any platform or power whatsoever, but debunk their ideologies publicly, without giving them a say. But hey, what do I know?
I hadn't noticed the Queen poster before. Nice ❤❤❤
"WHO WON!?" fascists! Goddamit this video is so on point. Boring self-righteous purists are cancer.
Does this guy even know that the nazis were socialists that believed in workers rights and nationalizing everything? Someone has to tell him, how can he not know this in 2019??? Embarrassing!
"You look like your mom dropped you off at a Green Day concert in 2003."
Plato did dialouges You do dialouges
The besmirchment of Luxembourg continues through autoerotic, polyphonic monologue.  Yur just a...just a...MYEGGGGGGG!
Lol...giiiiirl...(I guess dude at that time)  you ARE bougie as fuck, and its hilarious.   <3
ROMPER STOMPER!!!!! RUSTLE CROW. " Höðr of the mailcoat lets the halter of the arm hang on my hawk-trodden hawk-gallows; I know how to make the pin-string of the shield-tormentor ride the gallows of the spear-storm. The feeder of the battle-hawk enjoys the greater praise."
Don't listen to that guy.
mmmmmm digestable.
1) I actually screamed when that glass got broken. 2) Excellent debate.
Ima go ahead and say that this video really hasn't aged well
Bash the fash
This is one video where I'm going to have to disagree with your more "centrist" point of view ContraPoints. I do agree with the Marxist radical that violence against Nazis is far more effective and terrifying them into retreat and submission is a more effective strategy. If we did things your way Richard Spencer wouldn't have gotten scared and retreated into obscurity and gotten into debt and been forced to live a life of quiet, maligned, isolation like he deserved. He would've continued propagandize, rally, march, etc., while you spent your days making YouTube videos and trying to convince people of why fascism is a cult whose endgame is genocide. And speaking as a person of color, I am glad that Nazis and white supremacists and other neo-fascist groups are being smashed and countered by groups like Antifa and the very fact that people like them even exist to come to the defense of people like me makes me feel a little safer. At least I know for sure that if America devolves into a fully fascist police state in the midst of a nuclear holocaust that Antifa and other "radical leftists" will be the ones to have my back and stand with me against them, not the "centrist Liberals" spouting their empty platitudes about how violence is always wrong while my family gets dragged off to a concentration camp. Or worse. And furthermore, they deserve it. Not only do these fascists aim to cause violence and genocide, they commit acts of violence literally all the time in order to provoke a reaction. So they deserve the violence brought against them.
Oof, Natalie dressing female but still referring to herself as male is a weird thing to look back at.
Wow is it weird to see you agure with your self.
Thankfully the communists wouldn't send the jews, gays and centrists to concentration camps. We can totally trust them. All they want is to improve our society.
Is this pre-transitioning Justine and Tabby?
one at a time guys, jesus..
You've come such a long way in 2 years, but this one is still golden.
Really good stuff
You just summed up what is wrong with so much of today's online discourse. Beautifully done. And funny as hell as usual. You're brilliant.
I love how proto tabby calls Nathalie cis
I have been more aligned to the pro-violence movement... but since I've realized that everybody goes to the their own echo chambers and excludes everyone else, I've come to the conclusion that we need populism like the bourgeois. One more thing: I know some people who are by belief Marxist, and they really come across as violent and only violent. They discard everything else that isn't marxist and even some left leaning people who, by their definition, don't belong to Marxism and aren't left. I mean, come on. Besides many of those people have "decent" jobs and are relatively respected in their environment but they insist on the dialectic of oppression and oppresed, which is annoying to many. Also, by their rigid logic, no identity politics ever should have place in life. How to people NOT see them as violent and oppressive? Marx is cool, but come on, try not to be negative asses and suppose that no one has some positive outlook in life and frame them as bourgeois. Or to discard anything that they associate with bourgeoiis. At some point people will go away from you and come across people like Camille Paglia.... Ben Shapiro... (I was kinda like that) Excellent video, as usual.
"What if they don't retaliate against you but instead those you think you're offending?" Case in point: NZ mosque terror attack. That's what you get when some racist, bigoted incel is pushed too far. Going out and punching people who may be leaning that way arguably won't help.
I thought that I would add that I am an ex-fascist/right wing authoritarian. I changed my mind and became much more libertarian because of debate and conversation. Had someone punched me, I would have probably recoiled back towards fascist tendencies because my denouncers would seem evil. I really don't think punching "nazis" is that term is even relevant, will help. It will fuel a cycle of violence. Hitler said violence would crush his movement - maybe he was wrong though.
Don't physically attack anybody for their political views. Martyrdom is something to which many demagogues aspire. Don't give it to them. Barely anybody knew who or what Richard Spencer was before he ate a knuckle sandwich on camera. That one incident propelled him into the limelight and gave him a bigger voice than he'd ever had before. It also lent credence to his "white people are under attack" narrative. If someone has ideas that are wrong, deconstruct the ideas, not the person espousing them.
You made the point crystal clear with Che Fauxvara's attitude: When you start punching anyone, no more progress is possible.
Why isn’t this person teach at a university instead of Jorden Peterson.
Nazis are people too. That means they have weak points you can punch.
OK just have to comment.   First I just saw you on the David Pakman show and you were great. Truth be known I never even gave a thought you were transgender till ¾ of the way through it just didn’t matter to me. If you where my son I would be very proud of you for standing up for who you are. Now about this video I am AWE struck at the work you put into this. The editing the writing to create the dialog was amazing. You also talked about huge issues. I am a 52 year old, old fashion straight man with children and am now a subscriber to your channel because I want to hear your take, your thought’s and seeing you be free and have the right to be you, as well as your subscribers that are LGBTQ sorry I don’t really know the acronym, and yes I could have googled it to be correct but I didn’t so all in this community know I come in search of education and a open mind and heart. Like I tell my son you have got to stand for something and do it well.
Am I going to hell if Natalie shooting a gun gave me feelings?
I voted for trump this is too real
Man I much prefer tabby as the voice of the militant left at lot more than this guy
I like the "turn your backs on them, where everybody completely ignores them and they get no validation either way
This would have been more believable, if you brought up that the other extreme, Communism, was just as deadly as Fascism... instead of having to look at the Hammer & Sickle, the entire video, without even a mention of how many people died because of it... including, but not limited to, the Holodomor, where 7 to 10 million Ukrainians died of Starvation, due to the planned Genocide from the  Stalin's Government.
Please direct a movie
Why it's OK to punch a nazi  https://ibrahimmetinoz.files.wordpress.com/2012/06/auschwitz07.jpg
This is beyond fantastic. I love you.
I'm impressed by your trigger discipline.
I think my own reluctance to emotionally understand the Right (the Wrong?) is because it would undermine my own humanity. While I can empathize (as in feel others' emotions) with many others, I can wall it off and refuse to extend it to certain people. I cannot and will not allow my own humanity to be erased simply for the reason of a thought experiment;  that being understanding the emotional position of the Wrong.   Before coming to that conclusion, however, I was able to throw out some feelers into what the Wrong were thinking. I sense a lot of fear and shame. These people legitimately believe that People of Color want to enact violence against them. This belief comes from a very uninformed place. The most contact the Wrong will have with People of Color will be their health care professional, professor, or some other white collar professional. They may know someone who has a spouse who is a Person of Color who is more assimilated than the white acquaintance. They will view the white acquaintance's PoC spouse with undue suspicion until they can establish some sort of common ground. It's normally just a lack of exposure.   Uninformed fear can launch people into very strange thought-locations like advocating ethnostates and the like. They will continue to shelter themselves so that their weird thoughts stand. They will continue to eschew contact with other groups outside their own because it would tear down what they worked so emotionally hard to achieve. The work is emotional, not mental. It's completely illogical like all ignorance is. It's no different than hiding behind a parent when meeting a stranger one does not know as a child. It's no different than a toddler not wanting to try new and delicious foods instead of chicken tenders.   I suspect that the Wrong mentally gets that they are in the wrong. I suspect that their stubbornness comes from a sense of loneliness and powerlessness. While I know it would be better in the kumbaya sort of way to hear them out, it is extremely hard for me to respect someone who believes that me or someone like me should be harmed (killed/deported/excluded/harassed/persecuted/etc) simply for the color of my skin or any other immutable characteristic. I think I do this for my own mental health. Some people are worth extending a listening ear or a bit of my heart to, but I know the Wrong is not the group I can do it in good conscience. I have to respect myself and obey my own boundaries.
OMG I JUST REALISED... THIS IS THE BIRTH OF TABBYY!
If there's one thing I remember from reading The Prince, it's that you never cause an injury to someone that you don't intend to be fatal. Anyone you insult will for their entire career seek revenge against you, and so will their friends and their families, and everyone who identifies with that person and doesn't fear you. So, if you cause an injury to someone, it must be career ending at the very least. You don't go and punch a man in the face; you round up him and his buddies in one bloody night, and you take them away. The next morning you silence anyone who cares enough to want to talk about what happened. Short of that, you just play nice.
I 1000% agree with the Commie-Antifa hero in this video. Nazis are sociopaths that want to hurt other human beings for the terrible crime of existing on "their" planet. They're objectively wrong about every single thing they say and believe, and we as a species already KNOW this to be true. Frankly, terrorizing them into submission is LITERALLY the kindest way to treat terrorists like them, because at least THAT way, they'll be allowed to live long enough to perhaps grow out of the hateful programming that made them into the people that they are. Now if only we treated non-white terrorists with EQUALLY incorrect beliefs around the globe the same way, you know, instead of fucking murdering them and their families with drone strikes in the middle of the night.
I think random street violence is a good way to convince people left is wrong and fascist are right. Not sure if this is left main goal, it seems like it to me. In a society if something is wrong we make laws about it. I loved the rapresentation of the left speak: no metter how left is right none will never be convinced by this.  ContraPoints is making a great service to the Left, i really mean it.
What i find hypocritical about Antifa is that their whole thing is that they're against fascism. Yet they go about accomplishing this by forcibly and violently intimidating anyone who opposes their viewpoints, or who hold viewpoints they find counter productive. Silencing the descent!!! Forcible suppression of opposition!!! Strong regimentation of society!!! Strong authoritarian Govt. to dole out goods and resources evenly and fairly!!! There is only ONE acceptable political party!!! And any opposing viewpoints are the enemy of the new Govt.!!! Nazis!!! Prepare the nation for armed conflict!!! And to respond to economic and social difficulties!!!    Tell me that doesn't sound like Antifa... and then look up the definition of fascism.
wow!...    That was good shit
I agree with both characters and that gives me a headache
Are you a trap? Just wondering
Brilliant Mr.Ms.
Yeah we need to behave or we will scare the rich people into killing us
I hate that skype call sound so much i don't use skype anymore.
This is the video that cemented my respect for you. Really well done ✨
Wow. I wish i watched this after charlettesville
With regard to recent events this video has become relevant again. Remember who the fascists are.
There's nothing wrong with having that hammer present at hand, beautiful. Every one of us has a four-quartered heart. It's the four cornered night that is our CROSS-CULTURAL purview. ( https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zzUO3AT1fQ4&list=PLcvLVGUXgyQVrFtnBSj5O5SDgktuODeXm ) I for one have more and more faith, with each video of yours I see, in your milk drunk, calm sodden eyes.
You leftist ANTIFA fuckers are going loose so hard when we establish our ethnostate.
I support disrupting Nazis by any means necessary - my only problem is people on the left throwing the word "Nazi" around like it has no actual meaning. Nazis not only subscribe to racial superiority, but actively support measures to enforce it. Trump isn't a Nazi, Count Dankula isn't a Nazi, Tomi Lahren isn't a Nazi. Richard Spencer is quite literally a Nazi, Lauren Southern is definitely a racist but I'm not convinced she's a Nazi.
fuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuq
I'd like to offer yet another perspective. I live in and grew up in a country that was occupied by Germany during WW2. We've had a pretty firm way of dealing with neo-nazis up until recently, which is to just not. No debates, but no violence either. We just don't give them space in public discourse. Additionally, history education in this country is virulently, or should I say wonderfully, anti-fascist. When I was in high school, our history teacher told us in the very first lesson, 'If you take nothing else away from my class, I want you to at least be of the opinion that fascism and nazism are shit, and that nuclear weapons are shit.' She used that exact wording (only in Norwegian). The neo-nazi movement never took a real foothold. Not until very recently, when liberal centrists started saying that, 'We have to have the guts to debate this.' 'All opinions deserve space in public discourse, even ones we disagree with.' 'If we silence them, they'll grow stronger.' All of this is demonstrably false. The way that we dealt with it worked. They were tiny, they were fringe, and everyone hated them. No one ever said that 'there are some very fine people'. No one. And no one felt the least bit sorry for them when, very occasionally, AFA decided to go punch a few of them anyway. But now, they're growing. So yeah, maybe punching nazis isn't the best idea. But giving them a platform, in any way at all, is worse.
Pre-transition Justine and Tabby!?
Tbh I’m an asexual atheist woman and I still feel like I’m treading on the rights of the oppressed because I’m white. I’m of the mindset that if you’re doing your best to be understanding, nobody should fault you for being more privileged and therefore ignorant of the suffering of minorities.
I heard Fred Hampton tried dialoguing with some local Klansmen and was succeeding somewhat, but when the FBI found this out they were afraid and assasinated him. Dialogue is probably the way to go, but let’s not be too idealistic.
EPIC RACE BATTLES OF HISTORYYYYYYY
If your goal was to demonstrate the futility of these conversations then congratulations, you did it
I am wigless
it is my personal headcanon that these two characters transitioned and became tabby and justine
antifa contra is hot and that's that
going back in time and seeing contrapoints refer to herself as a "cis man" and accusing herself of transphobia is wild
This was quite interesting. It made me question where I would fall on the leftist political spectrum. I don’t know. I’m not one for violence though when a person or group does everything in the power to provoke violence and want to be attacked so they can have the moral high ground when striking back or by playing the victim of violence they provoked with their actions, it becomes a slippery slope to violence against groups simply for existing. Also, I am liberal leaning in a conservative area. I have conservative friends and family members. I’ve seen their responses to perceived “leftist attacks.” I am disturbed by how quick they are and open to the idea of another civil war. They almost sound excited about it. They wouldn’t mind punching a Nazi in the face themselves, but when it done by someone who would call them a Nazi too because of their support of Trump, magically they are on the side of the Nazi. And gleefully talking about how they’ll win the coming Civil war because they’re the ones with all the guns. It is weird and scary. I try to explain to them how weird that sounds to me and how I would be on the opposite side of their fantasy war and whether they would be willing to shoot me? I’ve ranted long enough. Again, interesting video and it really made me think. Thanks again for your work.
Look, if we’re going to be privileged about it: Non-authoritarian society wins by default as a system compared to any authoritarian ”extreme”. Any useful idea an authoritarian comes up with can be salvaged in liberal systems, whereas an authoritarian is stuck. They cannot change to meet the needs of the future etc. In this framework we find that corroding liberal values to prevent fascism is just counterproductive.  If you want to be real about it?  Go to nursing school, and lead the best life you can live. There’s only one place in which you find true ethicists, and it’s nursing school.  You are wasting time wanting to hurt perceived oppressors when you could do charity work, donate money to fight malaria and starvation, work in healthcare etc.
I'm a very left leaning Libertarian. That means I'm willing to protect free speech, feminism, minorities and everything else with both dialogue, and at the very last inch, with guns.  I live in New Mexico and the shit going down on the Border is getting very close to the tipping point of the Socialist party's extreme nationalist first moves.  I'll let them make that first move.  But then I won't be punching Nazi's, I will be shooting them. And I will not feel even the least bit bad about it. And I will not be alone.   I think the 2020 Election might be the most important single event in contemporary history, because I genuinely believe that if things go the wrong way, there WILL be a U.S. Civil War in the 21st century.
Just watched this after my Marx and Engels reading course 😂
I love the thumbnail
If you punch Nazis now you won't have to shoot them later.
I agree with approximately 75% of the things said in this video. As a white cis man, I feel like I have to be careful how I say things around other liberals/left-leaning people, especially other minorities because I know that most of my experiences are "tainted" by my privilege. I lived at least 2/3 of my current life as a "straight" cis white male, I _got_ to have a lot of the experiences I've had. But at the same time, I know that I've experienced a lot of intentional bigotry directed towards me for being gay - I've literally had people tell me that my existence is "wrong" or whatever the bible-thumping assholes are saying these days. So basically the point that was made with "Yes, I need to acknowledge my privilege, but I've also experienced a lot of bigotry too!" really resonates with me. I know I need to tread carefully when discussing privilege and the experiences of marginalized people, but I also know that I'm a marginalized person, so at times I feel like I _shouldn't_ have to.   On another note, Punching nazis is an idea that sounds pretty good - Nazis are shitty people, and what do we do to shitty people? We punish them and make them feel bad. Punching them to silence them is a part of that, in a way. However, at the same time, how can we expect the "more rational" Nazis to be convinced that being a Nazi is bad if we respond to them with violence, the exact thing we condemn them for? Doesn't that make us hypocrites? That whole part of the debate has me really torn because it's a situation where no matter what you do, you'll have lots of people on both sides pretty pissed at you - If you punch the Nazi, then those on the right will get pissed at you for punching someone on "their side," and liberals will get pissed because you engaged in violence. If you choose not to punch the Nazi, then the right may  not get pissy but they'll certainly think you're "weak" for taking the diplomatic approach, and liberals will get pissy because you're fraternizing with the very thing you should have sworn to destroy.
I don't like much of your content ContraPoints, but this was brilliant. Excellent work.
Oh my God. Bruce hijacked your framing device!
THANK you for validating my white male insecurities and neuroses involved in regulating them.
Definitely should punch natsees
This is the kind of trash they used to throw out of Europe, to colonize the Americas.
is it normal that i agree with every one of bruces points?  he is right, violence is the only way to stop the faschists. its the goal of antifaschist action that the nazis are to afraid to leave their homes because a leftist will punch their teeth out.   alerta!
This is like own own self trans person slipt personality.
I think it's interesting that when she uses the words "trans people" it looks like she has involuntary eye movements reflecting  hidden thoughts.
How are you attractive in BOTH
Are the two watches an homage to 'Raising a flag over the Reichstag' or am I starting to go insane?
Love the fact you called yourself a cis white male back then.  You’re awesome.  As far as the nazi is concerned, he needs a throat punch.  While I’m ordinary against violence, he’s a nazi.  Soooo fuck that guy.  There has to be a limit to the amount of shit leftists are willing to take.  I draw the line at nazi scum.
I actually want to know how you do these conversations. Do you like just have these awkward conversations with yourself in a cocktail dress and like nobody answers, then you put on a guy with a hammer and talk to someone who isnt there. Is it like ackward tho :)
best channel on youtube :D
Ya fuckin' white male, fucking white male, male.
It's really rare to see such an excellent treatment of both sides of this argument.  11/10
You're jacked!
It's good to consider that "white nationalists" often WANT people to throw the first punch, so it makes them look more sympathetic to the "normies." Straight out of the KKK/ Westboro Baptist Church playbooks. Best not to play into their hands (?).
12:50  It's like someone put a microphone inside my brain.
Hahahaha the word 'Natsee' in the UK refers to a drag queen or a tranny lmfao should have just stuck with 'Nazi' my dude
It's hard to make a point on either side of this without spewing a cliche. I don't mind a cliche when it's appropriate, and sometimes it is. But, it's just not worth it when you know the youtube is full of cliche police who are gonna knee-jerk flip their little sirens on. But, the only reliable action one can rely on is pretty simple. If a human presents that violence is imminent (sp?) react with violence. If they're just sitting on a fucking bus, or standing there talking to someone in a street....leave them the fuck alone. Or, try debating them like an adult knowing ahead of time that some people can't be reached. This punching of other people just for being scumbags is a pretty pathetic excuse for acting out your own impulses. Not punching them is what separates you from them on an intellectual level. And, you fucking give them fuel for their self-rigteousness. I don't much care about the moral implications.
"That's because people like you refuse to have their ideological purity tainted by the subtlety and ambiguity of the world"
11:10 This is Praxis and is something the radical left DOES need to do something about
Wait. I'm in a video?
Some continental philosopher? I know I'm pissed right now, but ..
Punch everybody. Might is right.
The communists are just as scared of the fascists as the fascists are from the communists.
Contra got DESTROYED by Contra using FACTS and LOGIC!
Not going to lie, as a person of color myself oh, I've always tried to take in the route of being the rational one to take the high road. But I'm going to be honest, it's getting f****** dangerous out there, this s*** is getting worse and worse I would take that dude in the beanie any day. Like Malcolm X said you got to pay them back in the only currency they understand.
I had this argument on twitter recently :)
I sincerely needed to hear this
That was a beautiful and terrifying adventure! I’m going to take a hot bath now and think about what I just watched.
lololol
This is very interesting and well done. And I don't know, I really don't know. Intellectually I love free speech absolutism and Chomsky's words and activism sound true to me. On the other hand, I remember my grandma, who took part in the (very violent) Italian resistance telling me "we didn't know until we really knew and it was too late".
Too good!
I love how the debate devolved into a shit fight
Antifa Contra won. I always see people saying that "fascist (won or) will win because the left attack them", but the real reason that made and is making fascist winning elections its the corruption of the bourgeois left.
PS punch Nazis
You look good as a guy and a gal, and that's pretty cool.   Awesome video.
Genius
This video is so important especially now as the police have learnt to weaponise the violent actions of allies against them by targeting the most vulnerable people at protests often who aren't even involved such as visibly disabled people. It is a form of privilege to say that one form of resistance is the only way when it only takes that person's feelings into consideration. The reason I've had to stop going to the peaceful protests is because as a disabled person I can not guarantee I will not be attacked by police pigs to goad others into violence to defend me. Its sick.
now there are literally immigrant children dying in interment camps.
Here, I can agree. You see, the problem with tackling fascism isn’t that it’s inherently violent, it’s just that it’s never been treated as this legitimate political ideology in the same way communism has. We legitimise communism by giving it the time of academia and the streets when they want to protest, but whenever fascists protest people have a fit and attack. In academia, nobody is truly invited to take a look at fascism, which is why we never really got a proper definition in the past except ‘right-wing authoritarianism’. So let me clear this up. Fascism is all about understanding the state as the highest virtue from which all can flow (similar to communism). By contrast, however, this state is supposed to be built on the concept of one race united, as opposed to communism’s one class united. This is why in fascist states you are more likely to see genocide than the slaughter of the wealthy. However, communists and fascists do share some traits: - Admiration of the government’s power. - Restriction of criticising the government, or society. - Citizen surveillance. - Interventionism (think about Vietnam as opposed to Hitler’s invasions) - Good social welfare provided by the underclass (Communism - the rich are extorted to pay for social welfare, Fascism - the ‘impure’ races are held in slavery to provide good services to the ‘desirables’)  And fascism has a few of its own: - State funded race baiting and racist trials   And if you look at these and the Conservatives, Republicans, etc. Objectively, you will find that they aren’t fascist.
ya fucking white male
Ach. Skype music. Ew.
10:42 Maybe you would have changed your mind if you hear how many people mind's I've changed Me 🙋
Normally, I agree with what you have to say, but not this time.  Under normal circumstances, it is best to use words to deal with Nazis and let them make fools of themselves by presenting their ridiculous arguments in public.  But these are not normal circumstances. America is sliding into fascism as we speak. We have a president defending Nazis, thousands of children being permanently scarred in toddler concentration camps, and the sudden increase in racist violence *has* resulted in deaths.  Now is not the time to stop everything and say "But wait! What if he had a *good* argument for exterminating the Jews!"  The occasional punch is nothing compared to driving cars into crowds of people (Charlottesville wasn't the first time), and careful, measured responses is just seen by them as a sign of weakness and permission to take things even further.  If we get anti-fascists shooting up synagogues or driving cars into crowds of human beings, then maybe we can talk about whether or not we're being civil enough. One or two punches, one or two broken windows, and a trash can set on fire is not a sign that *Western Civilization* is coming apart at the seams.
8:49 While I hate political correctness as well, I don't consider that even remotely right-wing. If anything, that's left-wing. The only right-wing feelings I've ever had were when Iron Maiden songs and the ending to Metal Gear Solid 3 make me cry.
what's the name of dali's painting in the background?
Natty fucking Bo
The Day the Nazi Die
It's scary how my brain starts to see them as two different people...wait did I say them?
This must be the favorite video of every other youtuber I'm subscribed to.
I had that same Salvador Dali print in my bedroom when I was younger
You white male shit!
the egg tho
Isn't it a marker of privilege that so many of us have the time and energy to actually sit around debating ideology? I wouldn't punch a Nazi, because I don't think it accomplishes much besides giving me an ego boost I don't need. And I'm not interested in deep philosophical debates about whether political violence is ideologically consistent. I'd rather channel my energies towards something constructive, like actually finding ways to organize labour. Someone else punches a Nazi? I'd consider them unworthy of my attention. Revolution doesn't begin with enthusiastic young bourgeois allies, it begins with the REAL common people.
is this the fucking eve online soundtrack in the beginning?
I wish the arguments I had with myself were this compelling.
I think the punk and the bourgeois lib. chick should totally get it on.
You are fuuuuuucking brilliant.
Commie scum. Not one of you cunts have ever punched me
I disagree with you every so often. But I looooove your art. Its beautiful. You are beautiful.
wd40 will get that upc sticker off your hammer. might as well scrub the capitalism off your communism.
Can't it be both?  <3
My line on when political violence becomes acceptable is when the Freedom House score for the US drops to a two or a three. That’s when revolution is necessary. Earlier and you simply destroy democratic norms. Later and the fascists/communists will already be too firmly entrenched.
I know this video is old, and I don't know if her opinion has changed, but I just wanna remind you all of the Paradox of tolerance by Karl Popper: If society tolerates the intolerant, the intolerant will take away society's ability to tolerate.
“If you punch a nazi they might punch back”. Bitch they have been punching people since the 1930s we are the ones punching back. Half of my familiy was executed or sent to concentration camps the last time we allowed them to compete in the “free market of ideas” wtf are you talking about? If they are able to speak they win the debate, nazis are in the propaganda business, they dont care about who made the best points as long as they can make theirs. That aside I liked the video, thumps up.
There are 2 movements: 1 - saying fascism is inexistent, irrelevant 2 - saying everyone on the right of you is a fascist. Those are the waves actual fascists ride.  What we need also comes in 2 movements:  1- understand that asking for a black trans woman to be racional in the face of encrypted genocide threat is irrational - punching is more about feelings than reason. 2 - acknowledge that reason can’t always be suppressed in the name of justified feelings  This dichotomy aspect of the punching discussion is why Contrapoints made an intentionally ambiguous video and it unveils a more impactful problem with ‘intraleft’ dispute: what Jordan Peterson calls “postmodernism” is a misconstruction based on a racist hoax. Ok. But that pseudoconcept and it’s cousins are important. They guide how people are rationalizing evil feelings. Because of that, it’s important we learn to articulate it to manifest our well intentioned feelings rationally. It’s real in the sense that money and race are real. It’s a powerful misrepresentation. We need to learn how to (dis)own it.  Contra is to me the epitome of this consciousness.  I love this video.
This is an amazing vid Natalie! It perfectly describes the difficulty all compassionate people face today: to fight back or to debate peacefully. I truly believe that fighting is the way to go. Perhaps not with violence, but with direct action. I hope that I can someday become the sort of person who has measured opinions like yourself. <3
She's so smart she has a debate with herself lol i love Natalie
Hearing her call herself a cis male in old videos is so weird
“You’re not a real punk!” That’ll set off all the antifascists I know.
so many arguments you make against nazism can be turned right back on communism. authoritarian
Hey     Let’s not make this about the pearls
Rewatched for the nazee punching, stayed for the hiiiigh heels.
...I hate just how true this is. Just the... sheer lack of what seems to be a bit of common sense, twisting the words this way and that, while also often refuting one's own statements... there's a reason I don't take a lot of "Activists" seriously, even if they do stand up for me: It's because of rhetorics that start contradicting themselves when the situation 'demands' it. Loved this vid. Thank you for making this.
As good as beating up nazis might feel it isnt going to get you anywhere. Better to disrupt their activities in every way you can. Block their marches disrupt their meetings and take them offline. If you see them doing an interview in the street drown them out with obscenities. The squadist approach is only an option for athletic men and it might gain nazis sympathy from liberals who arent in on your joke.  Of course if the nazis attack you first its a different story.
im so goddamn confused
Friend, I love the shoes you are wearing at 5:31 they look great on you!
when contrapoints actually argued well with herself
It seems pretty fucked up that prager u ads are so prevalent on your channel
Brought to you by Stanley
Now we know Spencer is not only a Nazi, but a wife beater.   He needed to be beat to a pulp in the street.  I am always on the side of punching NAZIs.
bb i luv u but the egg thing wasnt even remotely funny pls dont
The problem with punching natsees isn't the natsees themselves getting punched (bc fuck them) but the contradiction and unecity of the puncher.
JSJDDJDJ YOU ARE ONE OF THE MOST SENSIBLE PPL ON YOUTUBE PRAISE
Love Love Love this one!
"Don't interrogate the framing device!"   Genius. This channel is excellent content.
Relate
All political leanings stem from the battle of power & the acceptance of violence on some level.   Facsim isnt Republican. Facism is the need for absolute power & the need to get it by extermination & genocide.   Technically the Liberals are alot more racist than the Republicans because they denounce free speech, they disarm the populace, and they support cult like leaders that they go to extremes to support based off personality alone. Some of them even support communism, which is a form of facism....  "Nazi", is just a buzzword propagated by the left to justify violence against someone who follows a different philosophy than them & everyone eats it up like a bad case of Bulgarian beet thigh.   If anyone did one ounce of research into actual fascists like pol pot, Hitler, Joseph Stalin (also a communist), Kim Jong Un, Saddam Hussien, and Vladimir Putin, you would find Stark differences in contrast to Trump.   Makes me wanna laugh to think anyone in the United States would dare call themselves "Oppressed" but anyway.............  Btw nice Glock. Or was it a mk23? Wasnt really paying attention got focused down here.
My heart sides with "punk radical", my head sides more with "bourgeois liberal", but my fist will always side with punching nazis.
Reproman.
14:14 Solzhenitsowned :'(  After that blend of symbols and class conscious rhetoric, seeing a heel crush a яйцо made me flash back to the NKVD chapter of The Gulag Archipelago.
Third viewing and it just gets better.  In the UK it seems, to paraphrase Yeats, the best lack any coherent conviction while the worst are full of poisonous intensity. And then there's Brexit.
My initial reaction every time I see the video of the certain Nazi getting punched is to be filled with glee. Then I remember how well they are at portraying themselves as the victim, and how this only furthers their terrible cause.
The concern isn't really the nazi who gets punched. It's the nazi's centrist brother who could have gone either way until his brother got punched, which tips him over the edge. And saying he's just as bad because he wasn't already perfect isn't helpful - because what about his friend who's just left of him, and gets tugged right when he sees his friend tugged right? Violence creates ripples which beget more violence than there would have been IF YOU WEREN'T THE ONE WHO STARTED IT. That's really the problem here. We all want to strike first because it makes us feel safer, but I don't think it does. Being organized and powerful and extinguishing THEIR 'first punch'es quickly and decisive is a much better tactic. Meanwhile, indirect violence is, and will remain, the realm of politics until people are willing to stage organized revolts (which are inevitably disastrous, so they better be fuckin worth it. If you can't go a week without internet you're not gonna like living in a structure destabilized by revolution.)
Nazis are not people. No argument regarding human ideals applies. End of discussion.
im not binging videos or anything, but i appreciate the ACO music/references in your videos
I come from the future, to report that the Nazis' fuehrer is actually putting people in camps. So. I'm basically on the Nazi-punching side.
likelikelikelike
Laaampshading!
Nunch the Pazis!!!
i would never label myself but in this context i would be somewhere between a bourgeoois liberal and a punk radical and i say, as much as i enjoy any contrapoints production,  punching a nazi and making it into a meme is actually 'good optics' in an attention economy as brutal as this
Here is the thing, discourse should work but it doesn't. And directly or indirectly, fascists/racists/misogynists kill the oppressed groups. Yes it's very important to not stoop as low as them(the most important thing), but punching Nazis isn't same. The point is to make people afraid to even say that if your race, gender, sexuality and religion is different than you're sub human. As for 'rational discourse' with Nazis or similar groups, it's definitely about privilege. For some people it's simply about morals and all, but for some it's about their basic human rights. And the best comradeship is between 'nice polite people' and fascists. You know like while Europeans murdered people worldwide and at the same time, at home they're being charming and intellectual. British actually created an image of themselves as intelligent rational gentlemen while committing mass murders and genocides. I live in India and while globally we've a still an okay image apart from creepy pervert dudes, the oppression which marginalized communities,minorities, tribals, women face, is horrible. And they're all very 'nice people'. Although yes punching people isn't exactly a solution, it must be something like, either you accept that you won't say or do anything against the marginalized, or you stay segragated, and learn why this is wrong.
the thing that pisses me off about antifa is that they generally support communism. it genocided way more people than fascism.
Power will always follow the path of least resistance. So the resistance movement is a one that restricts power flowing the demos and up to the system designers. The resistance would benefit by modeling their Corporate oppositions tactics. They often apply pressure through creative research,  subpoenas, foia, letters of intent, money for petitions, local Propaganda channels, infiltrating social power structures and co-opting the pulpits, registering electors, starting watch groups, providing a useful service to the community.
Yeah but Trump isn't doing anything violent or "killing millions of refugees" he's sending people who were illegally here in the first place back, he hasn't done much of anything that Obama hasn't done. Obama made that list of countries that Trump used for the travel ban, Obama killed thousands of children and Afghani civilians with drone bombings who had nothing to do with anything, and who weren't Osama just because they are wearing a towel. Were was the outrage on that? And what have you done to help the black community, starting riots that don't let them get to work that destroy their places of work if they disagree that silence and oppress them.   Oh but you balance it out by heading over to a middle class neighborhood and doing what, smashing up cars and still blocking the street. What is that gonna accomplish, you are using the outrage about Trump to try to push a political ideology that is worse than anything he has done or will do. And who's mass industrialization campaigns which ignore the common person and their need to eat which leads directly to millions of deaths.   "Antifa" or this "punk radical" is just as bad as the "Nazis" he's punching.
Wanna give fascists and ultra right wing/ nationalists freedom of speech and to Express their opinion? And tired of hearing Hitler and the nazi's to compare them? Well take a look at the war that erupted in Yugoslavia between the Serbs, croats and Bosnian muslims. This is what can happen when you let nationalists have their freedom of speech.
I want someone to put pretty pink lighting over this.
This video is nearly two years old and I can't really say it's aged well.  Punch Nazis. Violence is the only thing they understand, and it's THEIR standard. They already irrationally believe people are out to get them anyway. It's not everyone else's job to coddle them into believing otherwise while they're literally trying to kill you lmao
I don't think of myself as a white person who is constantly forced to fix their worldview by listening to underprivileged people - I willingly listen to their ideas and issues because we are all a part of a society which I want to become as tolerant, open and welcoming as possible to everyone in it. My worldview should be as informed and educated as possible - this is not an unwelcome duty but a privilege.
✌❤⚪🥂
Holy s@&$... I’ve had almost this EXACT same argument with my Always Punch Nazis friends, and it ended in almost the same way (no threats or guns, but a lot of name calling, trolling, talking over each other, and disrespect). Damn...
I was talking to a cute punk dude on tinder. He said we could get drunk together and i was like hell yeah and then he followed it up by and then punch some nazis and i was like nope thats it i'm out ✌️
I disagree with the Liberal, I believe both violence and conversation have their place. They are tools. White supremacists are arming up, killing our kids, and I have to walk around in fear of my life. Being a black man in America, there's nothing else but self defense. Trust me when I say that black people are practically begging for people to see the system for what it is. That's what all the damn marches are for but we're always met with violence from the state.  But this channel is important, I think it's awesome of leftist white people to educate other white people then hopefully change their minds but I'm not wrong for wanting to defend myself.
I like the point about the alt right potentially doing more terrorist attacks.   I do think we need to do more but violence should be the last resort in responce to nazis starting violence
Late the party, as usual.  Oddly summed up my interactions with with the far-left - what I'm actually trying to say stops mattering, because <insert rhetorical rabbit hole here> (usually followed by being blocked for refusing to play the game). Once there was also an attempt to dogpile me that backfired.  Interestingly, my position is the same as Kat Blaque's. During and after the 2016 US Presidential campaigns, I made the point that the reason Trump, positioning himself as the conservative and working-man's anti-establishment candidate was working was because of the growing dissatisfaction with the mainstream conservative party, and the apparent abandonment by the democrats. The only way a mainstream candidate, or the democrats, could have beaten Trump would have been to actually listen to the working class white people who were worried about their job prospects drying up, towns disappearing and so on, and offer more than the empty rhetoric of 'retraining' for jobs that won't materialise. It requires genuine discourse, which sadly the worst elements of Antifa reject and this bleeds over into the wider counter-protesters' attitudes (and yes, I get that the 'alt-right' talking heads also have no interest in genuine discourse. This is at least in part what happens when politics gets too partisan).  Finally, on 'punch a nazi', I'm not going to throw out my principles. The only times to use physical means in that way are in defense of onesself or another - there has to be good reason to believe violence is imminent. While I did enjoy seeing Spencer getting hit, I cannot condone it in those specific circumstances. If Spencer, however, had been trying to rally a crowd and inciting (even indirectly) violence, that would be different and I would have at least been able to tentatively support it.
Can I still be on the left and not care if immigrants are sent back to their countries?
God damn, you were hot as a guy and you are gorgeous as a girl!  Also, I love the way you structure your arguments, I have been lost in your channel for days now.  Awesome work you are doing!
You're a cis white man. Damn this video is old. Trans white women now.
never forget: is always right to punch a nazi in the face
"Donald Trump is not exterminating anyone" -- boy, this video has aged well, hasn't it?
Awesome
I like your outfits. My life is terrifying. How about you?
Wow. Just...wow. This is quality content right here. You make me think more than any other Youtuber. Subscribed.
“youre a cis white man.”  thats so hilarious
Trixie's packing exotic heat🍷🔫🔫🍸👭👭👮🔩🔧🚷💕💖❤💚💜💛💙💎💓💌...she's not too much, three much, beeeach is Deelitefully FOUR MUCH!!!
A very compelling video, coming from someone on the opposite end of the heart-quadrant-allocation range. I don't know that I've watched one of your videos without feeling like I've gained valuable perspective.
I love you.
Never will understand how sjw is an insult I wear that banner proudly. Your channel always leaves me with better understanding keep it up ! 💘
I'm so conflicted...
This literally goes on in my head every time someone mentions fascism. :'( I wish there was a clear winner in the end because I still don't know how to feel about it all. Great video tho!
punch me daddy
"Socrates, what is friendship?" 😂😂😂 I'm dead
I bet spencer's still reeling from that black eye, he probably looks back at it and is like "wow I did nazi that coming!"
The first half is almost the same argument me and my X had when we were still together... We live in Finland. Here only the rad left hunts people down, wrecks places and so forth. He actually even started a political fight directed to a political figure in a pub he worked in... Like can people just IDK... CHILL? It's a go**amn opinion! (I was on the side that violence is not the answer)
I think sometimes people get caught up equating the morality of an action to the effectiveness of it. I think punching a Nazi, someone actually advocating genocide, is a moral act of self defense. I think sometimes it's effective and sometimes it's really bad optics for your movement, but I don't really think it's immoral.  Anyway, loved the video. This debate is something that goes on in my mind almost daily.
4:55 as a conservative this is exactly how I feel talking to the left.  I fuckin hate you guys Hahaha
Tabby has come a long way.
If you ever label yourself as "SJW" or "Anti-SJW" or anything else cringy like that, you need to stop.  You should never box yourself in with your thinking and join a group and adopt all their beliefs. Listen and understand their arguments, sure, but make up your own mind.
This issue is so fucking horrible and dumb at the same time. I fucking hate Nazis... but we still have to treat them fairly and as we'd like to be treated ourselves... but they are fucking horrible people! Fuck!
What in God's name am I watching??? And why can't i look away???
Ah the good times when we figured the worst that would happen was that ObamaCare could get canned and deportations. I was leaning more to the side of "maybe don't punch natsees", but now that the right is force adopting kids away from their families it's easier and easier to subscribe to the punching remedy.
Let's not make it about the pearls.!!!
Hmm, does this communist waifu still exist, or has tabby redacted him in the contrapoints expanded universe? Just a genuine question.
OMG I had no idea how much I am like your communist character, that was scary, and fun
Chenoweth, Erica and Maria Stephan. 2011. Why Civil Resistance Works: The Strategic Logic of Nonviolent Conflict.
i think the true breaking point between conservatives and liberal is that liberals have this very same conversation in our heads.  Seemingly, conservatives don't. They never do. They approach conversation with the perception they are right and throw a fit when they are challenged. I had a failed conservation with a conservative today. I know i pushed him furtheralong the spectrum with my insults and condescension. But he approached the convo with pure audacity and a with a chip on his shoulders to show us how "above it all" he was.  This video helped me to see how unproductive that is.
is this an alt right dog whistle?
Are you drinking a negroni in this video?
My I guess take away and the thought I had screaming through my head this entire video is, that you don’t need to to get the the fascists on your side if you have everyone else, your arguments are for them they’re for the undecided and the general populace, making large shows of violence only turns the fascists into martyrs and may convince people they have a point where they don’t, and it makes us look unreasonable and if we look unreasonable that only hurts our cause, in summation we need the general populace on our side and punching nazis isn’t gonna help
"Norm of Reciprocity"  This sounds a little like the NAP...
What is her lipstick in this???
Do unto others before they do unto you.  Hey .... wasn't that communist guy one of the prophets from Dogma?
Like watching Split
7:55 Contrapoints confesses the REAL reason for transitioning
Talks between you and other you are the best.
I have this exact entire debate within my own head at least twice a day.
I'd like to bring up that there are 'ex Nazi gang members' and such, people who get their tattoos removed and the like. So people's minds can be changed, people can come down from these irrational world views. The question is by what method? Is it through many conversations with the opposition or violence? Either way I believe we need to push the idea that they can be changed, thinking otherwise is a losing attitude
The problem i find with 'punching natsees' is: how can we know who is definitely a Nazi? Who decides this? Furthermore, why should violent action be relegated to just the fascists? I think communism is just as dangerous, so why shouldn't I be allowed to punch them? And if we do create a culture where those with 'incorrect political views' would face hate and aggression, who on earth would ever want to speak their mind and express themselves honestly again?
can we talk about 14.05 and how controlled and strong that hit was like aaaaaaaaaa
"Shut up!"  I love these dialogues!
12:41 literally my anxiety
I can't stop laughing
The ending is so funny omg
I agree with parts of both sides in this vid. I love the even handedness.
White supremacists like Spencer are angry men with delusions of persecution.  Using physical violence against them only strengthens their warped world view.
Damn... you are hard whit... your self :/
Is it just me or does pre transition contra look like Maynard from tool?
Sorry Trixie, but Bruce is right.
bash the fash
А Гегеля вы читали? А Маркса? А Энгельса? А тов. Сралина? Вот и не пиздите пока не прочитаете
Woah. Proto tabby
This video is fucking incredible. This video is fucking _important_
aaaaaaaaaaaAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA my brain is pudding and I don’t know if all of your videos are actually smart or if I’m just so easily manipulated that anything said by a youtuber in video essay format sounds like truth to me.
Currently studying philosophy, and I think that's what changed my mine more than anything. Then I naturally started to investigate and now I'm binging your videos.
I love you more with every video.
Hey now, I think you went a little too far there. Leave the pears out of this.
"You're a leftist with all your heart. The truth is I'm only three-quarters of the way there." One-quarter of me still thinks exterminating people in labour camps is wrong.
Still in the "punching nazi's" in the face camp. And that's how I expect them to treat me. And no I don't think that resorting to violence automatically makes you an extremist. But I do see it's a slippery slope.
Id be mad too if i drank all that Natty Boh alone...
shoeonhead's channel is based on that one quadrent
I'm okay with punching and censoring Nazis as long as it doesn't lead to an authoritarian state.
I'm on a binge, watching everything on your channel in no particular order. I like everything I've seen so far, but this one I disagree with on a couple of points.  1) The idea that if one is a cis white male then a member of an oppressed group can instantly discredit them on the basis of lived experiences is just plain wrong; the mostly unquestioned prevalence of this idea is what I hate about a large part of the modern left. Privilege is a reality but it is greatly overrated, as is personal experience. You may well know better than someone what's good for them, especially if you have relevant theoretical background; it all depends on the specific arguments in the context of a discussion. Furthermore, if a woman tells a man that something is sexist and the man disagrees, it doesn't automatically follow that the woman is right and the man is wrong; it is the validity of their arguments that matters, not who is talking. (That's not to say you get to make decisions on behalf of groups you don't belong to, just that you may be right on specific issues that concern them, and they wrong. They're still to be treated as rational actors regardless.)  2) We actually know pretty confidently what happens when you humiliate a fascist. He (and it will almost definitely be a "he") will not increase the level of violence out of spite, but rather decrease it out of fear. And making fascists look vulnerable is very likely to disillusion their followers rather than gain them sympathy points - they support the "might makes right" mentality, remember? If fascism's goal is to make the worm feel like a dragon, ours should be to make the dragon feel like a worm. And physical violence achieves that.
"Fascism is inherently violent." And we use violence to beat down our ideological opponents.
This production is breathtaking in depth. or am I just bedazzled by the humor? I decided to cross-pollinate this to Am Ren on the same topic of violence to "Nazis".   I should note, especially publicly, Jared Taylor disavows violence & war and hatred towards anyone. The Joy of Hating White People https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CpA1c-AlTAg
God. So good. The editing. The music. The 4th wall breaking. The use of the ode to describe the orgiastic joy of violence and the wry contrast with its humanitarian text. Are you a genius?
Tony Abbott former PM of Australia was head butted in Tasmania during his campaign against Gay marriage. The man that did it said he always wanted to head butt a fascist....😀😬😀😬
<3
I know I’m not there but I don’t view genocide as a political opinion, pretty bourgeoisie of you....
I'm no expert on Hitler's rise to power, but I was always under the impression that "antifa" - i.e. violent Marxist groups -- helped him.  what about the fucking Reichstag fire, for instance?  wasn't that the pretext? a fascist future is a possibility in America -- well, at least some kind of mainstream white identity movement is a possibility-- in the medium to long term, I would say.  not right now.  but ritualized political violence between tiny groups of larping white people isn't either going to win, or lose, that battle.  that battle -- if it comes down to a literal battle -- will probably be decided by, say, who happens to be in charge of the military, or militia groups -- or who has the guns.
"You look like your mom dropped you off at a green day concert in 2003" 😂😂😂😂
Thank you for this. x-x much as it drives me up the walls. cause this just... frustrates me on so many levels because of how conflicted it makes me feel, which, I really appreciate you bringing that to light, Contra. Thank you.   I easily and aggressively lean towards the radical leftist side in your video, but I can absolutely see and agree immensely with so many of your counter points, chief among them being I DON'T know how to talk to the other side. It's something I've always struggled with, and while I still try, I find myself getting angry a lot faster and easier over being stuck debating what feels like semantics at its roots while so many lives around us are lost and ruined every single day. It breaks my heart. And it infuriates me they often see no justice-- and if anything, become more persecuted for seeking such, or for even showing their pain. Likewise, I struggle to maintain a dialogue when the person across from me notices how upset I'm getting and uses that to invalidate any points I might make, saying because I'm so upset that I can't possibly form a rational opinion or contribution on how to move forward. And then we have to diverge down ANOTHER road just to try and counter THAT point and on and on and on...  Just writing this and thinking about it, it's already so.. *exhausting* that just thinking about it right now makes me want to curl into a ball and cry. I feel disgustingly ineffective to help my loved ones, my neighbors, strangers-- anyone. I just want people to have a better life, and the growing immediate threat, like immigrant children STILL being detained and lesgislation being posed to allow them to keep them indefinitely, makes me sick to my core. It just.. devastates me.  So I always get this feeling of "we're wasting time debating this garbage! we're seeing the literal resurgence of NAZIS. White supremacists. White supremacists shouldn't GET free speech. They shouldn't GET basic civil rights, because the entirety of their existence and goals are to take those rights away from everyone else BUT themselves." and, obviously in my very skewed experience, I've never seen a white supremacist change and become a better person, I've never seen one who can truly be reasoned with... so all I can think is the majority of them mustn't be able to be and those that do change are rare miracles-- but we don't have time to wait for all of them to have their own magical change. People are dying, families are being ripped apart, the only 'care' veterans get is a cheap and meaningless-the-more-powerful-you-are statement of 'Thank you for your service.', and the rest of the problems that are just within our own country.  Additionally, while I am white, I'm also a woman, which means I didn't grow up with the built in power and benefits (or pressures of) of being seen as being a straight white male. I didn't get immediate acceptance, my opinions were always second guessed, yadda yadda etc etc, I'm absolutely sure you know the jist-- but anyway, I can't relate to feeling.. however a straight white guy feels when they suddenly feel the need to start whining how they DONT have privilege or feel persecuted for being white.   Like you're 110% right, I DON'T understand their hangups, I DON'T understand them throwing their hands up and throwing a grown adult temper tantrum of "Oh so EVERYTHING is just MY fault because I'm a straight white male?!" --even when the discussion wasn't about them at all. I don't understand the extreme attachment to their identity as a straight white male. I don't understand their aversion to being told the atrocities of the past with no sugar coating. I don't underSTAND taking shit SO personally as if people are accusing you of BEING that cop who executed that little boy, or that one man who led the lynching of so and so, or the plantation owner himself, or on and on and on. I *don't* UNDERSTAND why it's so difficult to accept that A + B resulted in C but because C is corrupt and utterly-broken levels of unbalanced, we still have work to do to ensure greater opportunity for *all,* and BECAUSE  A+B happened, it's gonna take a bit longer and require some more elbow grease.   I don't... understand how that's such an oppressive notion. Everything in life requires at least a little work, whether it seems tiny and trivial or arduous and thousands of layers deep. Physics itself says an object at rest will stay at rest. So if we want this ball to move forward, we have to exert *something* onto it.  anyway.. I'm really sorry for rambling, and I think maybe I had a tie-all-this-together point, maybe, but I can't remember for the life of me and am already starting to feel dizzy again (sick, happens) so I'm.. kinda out of thinky power at this point. x_x But anyway, just wanted to say thank you for making this, thank you for your accurate (at least for me) portrayal of a radical leftist and a.. *not* extremist, thank you for your points on both sides (I just wish so much I could've heard your counter for some of the rapid fire questions that were just shot without end ;; cause maybe they'd help give me better perspective too but oh well??) and just.. thank you for what you do. I really really appreciate you and I'm really glad I found your channel. I hope you're well and stay in good health always (and good spirits, if possible)  Love,  Snow Diana Judith [SomeRedDame]
you are lovely as a woman
commie natalie "natzee ideology always leads to violence and is not effected by dedate "  she has a good point lib natalie "how can you possibly be sure you know that violence can be justified" shit! she still has a good point
this, did not age well. No sweety I don't mean your look. You are now and were then beautiful. No I mean Trump having internment camps for children up and running in under 2 years
this is great. Thank you!
God it's weird to hear you call yourself a cis white male
You are so so wonderful <3
7:13 OH SHIT NOT THE WAGNER
I used to think right wing talking points were reasonable. Now I see they're really everything wrong with politics/government maybe even the world
Your videos are public service
oh the swelling wagner
Is it possible to lose the muscle?
So is this the part where we all ignore how the Communists make the Third Reich look like Boy Scouts.
The right wing reactionaries have always seen the left as weak tree-huggers because they are only provoked for reasons of justice and take on un-winnable battles. I’ve seen these lard-asses at the shooting range twice a week but never at the gym. They only think they are strong because they isolate and attack people who are weak and alone. Trust me artifa scares the shit out of them. When they see lean hard as rocks men stand up for what’s right, their little balls shrivel up because they know that they are only male imperfections and imposters.
Spenser wasn’t punched because he was expressing himself. He was punched because opportunities like that don’t come around every day.
Oh my gawd, at first I laughed at the juxtaposition of the two "you"s, but that transformed as you moved into the 2nd room, and ultimately you left me with my mouth hanging open in wonderment. Fucking brilliant, absolutely brilliant. Since I discovered your works I've been steadily watching my way through them a few at a time. It's the highlight of my day. Thank you!😲
This..... Is really awkward in hindsight with the child refugee detainment camps...
13:42 is hotter then it has any right to be.
Maybe something can be wrong and right at the same time.. like a gestalt moment of clarity can emerge through our mistakes which renders them blessings... Rationalizing them though might make them mistakes again.. like when I heard this story, I thought, yes, I really DO hate Nazis! That's a blessing. But listening to the debate not so much. It's not a really good thing to do and can't be justified. Doesn't mean good hasn't come of it..
3 to 1 is a pretty good ratio
punching nazis is only going to make more nazis and incite them into forming gangs to protect themselves. Also, Richard Spencer says hes not a nazi, so if you dont know him how are you supposed to think that that was anything else than left radicals coming to punch anyone.
Seattle Nazi punched  I dig it.   Also he is a regular Douch often trying to pick fights...
20 minutes of two white people arguing about how best to "save" minorities is peak post-Trump era.
I’ve been on both sides of this issue since my move further left.  I think I’d agree more with your persona with the cocktail.  That doesn’t mean people shouldn’t get angry and escalate a conflict if their rights are being violated, though.  I’m for community self defense, not ideological warfare.  People need to be prepared to swing back if swung at, and direct action, whether violent or not, will typically produce better results than voting (though I still vote, especially because my state frequently has ballot initiatives).
There are other problems as well. If Nazi punching is condoned then what else is allowed? Where do we draw the line. If the fascist threat is real should we murder them as well? Where do we stop and what retaliation will we get as a result. Its stupid to think that they will not, don't forget many of right wingers also love guns also.   Also I think Antifa is such a weird thing from the alt-right point of view but they often don't address that. The alt-right love to talk about how weak and feeble the left are, how they get offended at 'everything', then we have this violent leftist group that vandalise things as if that helps their cause, hint:it doesn't.
Hitler would have failed if the Treaty of Versailles wasn't so punitive. Or the international community would have intervene sooner. Or any number of dozen factors we aren't aware of.  Like you said, people like Hitler usually don't reflect incredibly deep on how they could have failed. Because they didn't, so they don't have to.  I will be interested to see what history makes of the early 2000s in 2100s.  12:51 ... topest kek
the issue has never been about punching nazis, it's about left wing extremists who label people nazis for the expressive purpose to morally justifying violence against them and then assaulting them.
this is the best video ever
girlz w gunz ❤
Please stop presenting nuanced human issues in a balanced and entertaining way while having the nerve to look like you do. My clit can only get so erect.
LOVE THIS. 100% SPOT ON. AT LAST!
"you're a cis white man"   Well hey there, January 2017!
I feel like half of Contrapoints' videos have been taken off the table for me because of how wrong it feels to see her before her transition.
Possibly the most intelligent/relevant political art I’ve seen in years—and I’m 23.
Oh my.
This is all well and good, but let's not make the mistake of thinking the likes of AntiFa are the ones initiating violence. The unprovoked punch in this video is an aberration. AntiFa typically only kick the shit out neo-Nazis when the right start attacking counter-protestors and the police fail to step in to stop them.
Punching Nazis doesn't disrupt their rhetoric. It empowers it.  It sucks ass but it is true. Look how many normies they got on their side just by getting one guy punched.
Defending Nazis, See a Nazi-Shoot a Nazi😈
It's kind of incredible that among all your personas, none are caricatures. Every one of them, even the literal nazi represents their respective political niche's viewpoints as well as they can be.
"cis"
Good vid, fully agree with the bougie liberal side, but the cross-talk was unnecessary and hard to parse. (Probably not helpful to give video editing advice on a vid that's a year and a half old but hey)
How do you have better conversations with yourself than most people can have with other people?
ILL KILL YOU SO HARD YOULL DIE TO DEATH
😒 I've had arguments like this. It was mind numbing at best, enraging at worst.
The "WHO WON? WHO'S NEXT?" seriously just cracked me the f#ck up.
Lol if only the left was more self aware
NATTTTTTY BOHHHHHHHHH. i too am a maryland native
And well over a year later he's been shoved to the underground
Nazis should be publicly executed
Wow very impressive! New Contrapoints fan here :)
i love your humor❤
But seriously Contrapoints, eventually all the bourgeoisie are going to die and you know that is a historical inevitability. Someone's going to have to build guillotines at some point. I know revolutions seem like a distant future possibility, but are we not in a very late stage of Capitalism? Of course I am not willing to die for any cause when I can live in privilege, but deep down I know there are things worth more than a human life. When the inevitable shit hits the fan and the next crisis breaks whats left of this world, what then? We all like to pretend that things are relatively calm right now, but the most powerful men on Earth are threatening nuclear warfare over Twitter. We're on a timer here.
Oh my days, you can FEEL the evolution from video to video. God DAYUM, it's just so rich! Rich in cultural narrative, rich in personal narrative...uhhhhh, Youtube, I think I'm gonna cum
its like im having a dialogue with myself!
Wow, you are well built!
I know this is an older video, but over a year out from this point, it looks very strongly like antifascist tactics have had a severe chilling effect on the extreme right. You made a good point at the time that we had no way to know what the reaction to this kind of tactic, and that pursuing a hardline stance was, at best, a gamble. I'm curious about your current thoughts as far as tactics go.   My own thoughts have evolved quite a lot since first watching this video, and moved further toward the hardline end of the spectrum, especially in terms of dealing with fascists as a member of one of the groups they hate. It feels like we're more or less forced to choose between protecting ourselves and our loved ones (without having good public outreach, which keeps our numbers small (and doing nothing to further the advance of socialism)), or focusing on presenting well enough to not frighten the vast majority of uninformed, non-affiliated people so that we can educate them to crush fascism at its root and cut off its source of new recruits (to the potential detriment of our own personal safety and / or the safety of our loved ones (though this approach is much more likely to result in the growth of socialism as a whole)). It's tricky to navigate, and maybe one answer isn't the right one either way. Maybe a blending is possible, or switching modes, or something to that effect.
While people on the left fight with each other, fascism rises.
Violence leads to violence, war leads to war. The only way to stop the cycle is to practice nonviolence, which in the long run is a much more effective tool in swaying people's minds to your side. Although I agree that nazis deserve to be punched, punching them will only insight more violence, which is counter-intuitive to what the left is trying to accomplish. I miss the old days when the left was all peace loving hippies.
A tour de force !!!   What a great video. I was swept away and caught up in a familiar but normally interior, debate.  Thank you :)
contra is really good in showing the power of dialogue
When life imitates art
I'd be interested to see if you have taken more of a side since the anniversary of Charlottesville
This is literally every political conversation between me and my older bother (him being bruce)
Why don’t we actually talk about the absolute worst violence the American government is perpetrating? The indiscriminate and unscrupulous bombing campaigns in the Middle East and Northern Africa which routinely end in civilian causalities? Our toppling of unaggressive foreign governments and decimation of populations? Our participation in the most unsavory war crimes of the century? Seems like there’s more of a cause there for immediate concern.
13:00 how po-mo and marxists ideologies are not working togheter - funny to see them argue to redirect and co-operate
irony of a commie being scared of ideology that wants other people dead XD
i am loving all of ur vids
This video probably aged the poorest of those still around on this channel.
Every time the Alt-Right terrorizes a town with a hate march or someone dies because of Alt-Right terror attack... I wonder if maybe a punch is getting off too easy for these fascists.
Here, an extra "correction" (man I sound obnoxious putting it like that). Your Trixie persona says that the left have problems communicating their ideas, and this is correct. But then you go to say it's about "safe spaces" and "cloister" in Marx-Engel readings. The second, it needs to be clarified that that's not something people (me, the "left") do willingly, I don't think. In fact, this second point about "coistering" is actually the follow-up and reason why left have "problems of communication": if you enter a... framework of thought, with its own specific language, it's just like jargon, and the people around you won't understand what you are talking about unless they use the same slangs as you do. See, even my use of "framework of thought" seems like cloistering, but I can't honestly think of a better way to express myself. Because problem is, even as I know I am most probably alienating people by using that phrasing, I'm constrained by my incapacity to completely tear away from the vocabulary I use.   And it's not just vocabulary: it's also education and experience; some times I can't communicate with another person because they don't share experiences that to me - or at least I assumed - was "known stuff". But to reiterate: that's not intentional, that's a shortcoming of mine (and I honestly try and NEVER get better at it). I don't think we should give up that easily... but I don't judge this as a "political" and conscious decision of the "left". It's more of a personal flaw shared by a group of people with experience too different to that of the non-left (not even the Right). It's a problem with "intellectualism", even: them intellectual get further away from us to understand because they are carrying in their speech knowledge I do not possess. Now, I can get defensive about it, or I can keep listening to see if I can get it, or even ask the person.   And about the first point about "safe spaces". No, that's fascist rethoric actually... In fact, let me add something. People actively look for people they are comfortable with. It's the reason why I'm watching your channel, and the nazi-type flood to Sargon of Akkad. But that's not a safe space, I mean... That's more like the place you go to replenish strenght after a good day of answering to big old fascist and being surrounded by people who enable them...
I will correct you in one point. There's not an unwillingness to enter the emotional framework of the Right for the group angry at them. It's the opposite. It's because you empathize with them - if only momentarily - and you hate yourself for the hurt you are impossing, that you go full-blown rage against a group. But it's not my "white pride" persona that repulses me. It's my sociopathy... while wearing that skin.  I can do that because I can empathize simultaneous with the other people (sometimes your real self) that's getting hurt by the first. I can only speak of my experience but, I get into the space of people of questionable morals all the time, and it's though this empathy that I decide whether my opinion of them. So, for example, I'd try to understand a rapist or a pedophile by entering their mindset, and you can see how I will both understand where they are coming from, and come to the impression that those people 'deserve' to be submitted to a level of visceral violence where gore has nothing on me. Even if in real life I wouldn't hurt a fly.  Must clear out I'm not for starting on a path of violence (*), because I do my own predictions about how I'm pretty sure there is not a bad situation that can't get worst by escalation. I'll have outbrust of wished violence against a group of person in a moment of catharsis, but not real intention to carry it out. Also, I don't enjoy seeing others do it either.   (* About the "violence" in the Left. It should be pointed out I don't know of any members of the Left killing anyone, as opposed to the Right and nazis, and the most condemnable thing I've read people like Antifa do is vandalism...? of course, do correct me if I'm wrong.)
The ambiguity has only aged well for a selective group.
You've got facts coming out of you, girl. Don't change.
See I think the interesting aspect here is you really cant fight nazi's but you can fight their rhetoric. The thing at stake here is not the souls of the fascists but the fate of the confused masses who are not being communicated with properly. They can barely identify facism, so when they're told things they find harmless are fascist they're confused. The "alt right" is attacking where it hurts  and we're not fighting against it. We're not helping the people contributing to the systemic issues see the problem instead we're giving them reasons to see the left as extremist when they're not.
Your videos should literally be taught in college as an example of polyphonic discourse.
Both of these people are exactly how I fee
I feel like there's an over exaggeration of left violence. The comparison of a few bruises to full on use of explosives for mass murder is a pretty intense mischaracterization, and in a way it can act as a litmus test for the severity of the movement as a whole - if the whole thing gets shut down by a few bruised cheeks and egos then the movement is over without any serious harm, the majority having been the non-committed who just got roped in by a pretty sounding idea, and there's no serious harm. If things escalate, well you have legitimately dangerous fascists with genuine plans for violence in the first place, and action is appropriate. That said,  I hardly think its something everyone should be doing (a few guys punching nazis is good, everyone punching what they perceive as nazis kinda feeds violent left rhetoric), and I did really appreciate the fair shake given to both arguments in this.
I love the Airplane! reference "And I can't live with a man I can't respect." "What a pisser."
“Shut up! You’re just a cis-white man.” Lol
Why punch a nazi....      when you can kick a nazi?
The social skills on the left are so horrible they may actually drive people in the wrong arms. This video is hilariously showing exactly that. If you cannot except other opinions, frame people on the other side all the time, think violence is not only optional under extreme conditions  but  good under any and all, + the other super charming attitude thingies,  how the hell can you claim to be against fascism? You ARE fascism if you think and act like that.
I did nazi that coming.
This was so insightful!
What happens when two opposing groups are both willing to die for what they believe but only one is willing to kill for it?  It's something with which I've yet to reconcile without simply waiting for the bullet.
I just came upon this video, so I guess I'm a little late to this party, which might end up being my epitaph if I really thought about it, and I won't.    Anyway, I liked how you presented both sides of the "liberal" argument because that's really where too much of the effectiveness of the so-called "left" is lacking.  I mean, even though I agree with all the tenants of feminist - especially when it comes to sexism and misogyny - there is a lot fo problematic groupthink inherent in having anything become popular after a certain point.  (You see the same thing with social media because social media is driven by humans, therefore, that stuff just happens.)   However, the main question is about where you come from in either of your arguments.    You see this debate of if violence used against people who preach and enact violence against a marginalized group was had during the criminally miss-named "Civil Right Era."  Even though he never actually preached nor committed violence towards white people Malcolm X is constantly positioned as the "violent" choice against Martin Luther King's "non-violent" approach.  And the debate is always should we consider violence a method that only exacerbates the violence leading to only violence without end?  I love your videos but that is, in fact, only a question someone who might not suffer the level of violence as those who want to fight back can make.  (And I acknowledge fully the just being a trans means the likelihood of you suffering violence is higher than a cis-white male.)  Because you are inadvertently glossing over a very crucial point.  The beliefs of these "right wingers" or "alt-righters" are already causing violence towards the people they are against.  Four little girls were blown up in a church while white people debated if Malcome X or the Black Panther Party were "too violent."  People were being lynched, or murdered, or brutalized while this scintillating debate about violence raged on.  You can find old debates about this after the Nat Turner rebellion.  Should the slave be so violent?  This asked while slaves were being brutalized, raped, murdered, having families just split up.     To the argument that "well they will make them more racist or sexist or anti-SJW or something. . ."   What does that look like to a black child who wakes up one morning to go to school and see's Fred - a civil rights worker - hanging from a tree?  Can you say to him "Well, fighting back against racists will only make them more racist?"   How about to the parents of those four little girls who were killed, or the congregation who got out alive, or the neighborhood?   How about a lesser example, when the alt-right/gamergate/nazi/kkk legions doxed females who said teh word "feminism" and had them have to literrally move their families out of thier own homes?  Because when you whip up insane hysteria amonst hundred of thousands of people there's no chance at all one of them might, I don't know, shoot up a pizza parlor over the dumbest conspiracy theory since ancient astronauts.   It was like when people insisted I vote for Hillary because Trump is "racist."  I'm 56 years old.  I lived under a few presidents now.  Haven't found the non-racist one - or at least the one that did not create policies that allowed racial discrimination on some level.    My point is that it is rather easy for certain groups to sit back and have a debate about punching a Nazi.  Especially when you're debating this about a group with a long and short history of terrorist actions (because they're a hate-group and hate-groups tend to get violent at some point).  You can reach these people, that's good.   Personally, if I have to watch another Travon Martin (and at 56 I've seen a shitload of Travon Martins and Freddy Greys and Sandra Blands) and watch the same people (Nazis, Alt-Right, Gamergaters, MRAs, conservatives, libertarians, etc) sit there defending for the white murderer I'm afraid when ANTIFA punches another Nazi, I'm not going to bloody care anymore.  (And by the way, it was ANTIFA, the same group who stood in protection with a few peaceful marches and stopped the right-wing groups from doing things like running cars into the crowd of people they disagreed with.  Go non-violence.)    PS - I'm not against any form of protest, I just that this time around we are facing the dangerous reality of completely insane people turning this country into the plot of a dystopian YA novel.   That's a little more than scary.  Have you read dystopian YA novels?  They make Clockwork Orange look like a Disney film.  And if you can really reach these people, seriously try to do it before the next round of "murder all the non-white possible" happens.  We're all just a wee bit sick about that.
there IS a lot of politically correct bullshit tho. you don't need to be neurotic and feel guilt about your "privilege".
People have the right to express their views and be protected from the government, that doesn't mean they should be killed by OTHER CITIZENS!  Nazis want to commit genocide, don't forget that.
Trump is owned
I think we need both, the committed ideological fascists need to be intimidated and disrupted but the left must also put a reasonable and friendly foot forward. A valid alternative must be presented to the public and a fist presented to those who are truely dangerous. Where I’m from there are fascists but they are too afraid and disorganised to be a threat and that’s because they will get their heads bashed in, not by antifa mind, but by regular people.
God this is amazing. Puts so many professional academics to shame. Don't ever stop. You're incredible.
This framing device aged poorly the moment Trump started loading children into cages...
And now R. Spencer has gone out publicly and said he wont do any more college tours because of antifa, and that antifa has won. I guess the "punk radical" was right all along. Heyooooooooooo!
The only good Nazi is a dead Nazi. Failing that, a Nazi with the shit kicked out of him.
slay kween
I know this is an old video, I would just like to stress the vast importance of this video at 13:12, wherein, and I quote, "Your Hot Topic eyeliner looks like shit" is said. Because it's important that, however we feel about punching Nazis, we ALWAYS remember, even a year later, to have our eyeliner game on point.
So you got Buffalo Bill from Silence of the Lambs is discussing whether or not to punch nazis, while commies are ok... sounds legit.
I want to see Natalie go on the Joe Rogan podcast. I think it’d be an interesting conversation because Joe at least appears to be open minded and I’d like to see him engage with one of the more “”””rAbiCaL””” leftists after having freakin Milo and Ted Nugent on
"Someone punches a Nazi" Right wing : "Oh no! So evil, how dare they"  "White Hungarian reporter kicks an immigrant child" Right wing : "Hurrah, she's saving Europe"  I feel so glad to see these alt-righters finally being put in their place, I've had enough of these tards
fuck contra looks sooooooo hot shooting that gun in that dress omfg TAKE ME NOW
Communists and NatSocs fighting in the street isn't about who walks away with a bloodier nose, it's about the audience.  It just takes one degree-holding vegan crossfit bro injuring one racist young widow at the assistance office and we're suddenly playing a very different ball game.  Rather than trying to prevent this inevitability, I would start drafting a strategic response when it does.
I'm not really heaby on the "punching nazis" thing not because I care about the nazis feelings, I just feel like it is not effective. The whole "silence them whenever they speak" idea was great back when the only way to get your message out there was the town square and a soapbox. But when a Nazi gets punched now, alls he has to do is scurry back to his basement, turn on his camera, and spew his bullshit out that way to even bigger audience, this time with a "THEY ARE TRYING TO SILENCE ME!" cherry on top. So really, when you punch 21st century nazis, all you are doing is making YOU feel good.
Considering the fact that Trump is actively trying to ethnically cleanse this country, this vid didn't age well.  When you still support a cult as it jails babies, you're lost.
Only tangible harm justifies violence. Besides, there are plenty of left wingers who advocate genocide and if any one of those cunts got punched in the street the left would be on their side.   Do I have a right to punch this unrespectable cunt in the face? https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=y9qbJ5oojXg
Your biceps look great in this video!
13:22 fuckass
I disagree with the communist. But nitpicking an anti-fascist argument may give off the wrong message. I do almost completely agree with the liberal.
Update --- June 2018: they have special concentration camps for babies now I guess?
Watching the intro’s framing device the antagonist absurdly asserted the hypothetical scenario of when the minorities were put on a train - just a year later we’ve already had buses boarded by ICE demanding papers, the intentional separation of children from parents as punishment, and the race-based abandonment of 4,600 Americans in Puerto Rico to death.   It would seem we are experiencing the impact of state endorsed violence against minorities
Glib burlesque is the best way to reach people, in my experience.
Richard Spencer is literally not a nazi.
It technically wasn't a punch, but vertical elbow attack. And also typically Nazis/Fascist go after fellow "whites" and political movements before they go after minorities.
so good. <3
So liberals are afraid of an idea.
Dang this is like a year old video so this prob wont get any attention but this definitely did make me re-think things. If I had to label myself before this video I'd be pretty pro punching people who identify and sympathize with Nazis and fascist sympathizers. Though, I do find myself agreeing that quite a lot of Trump supporters and anti-sjws probably aren't secretly bearing swastika tattoos under their shirts, they're just feeling alienated by society due to rapid change. While I would consider myself more or less an egoist-ish an-com I would tend to agree that dialogue with people lost in the midst of a changing political landscape is better than punching people in the face and affirming their half based beliefs. In addition, while not complying with societal concepts and going pure Stirner is enjoyable, look where fancy milk shops got me; I'll still vote to make the place I live in a little bit less shit. If that makes me a dirty bourgeoisie liberal traitor who steps in the way of the Unique, well damn.  Richard Spencer getting punched made me feel pretty good, not gonna lie, but I think there's something to be said about trying to talk to the less extreme. I'm a mix of the bourgeois liberal and punk radical, though I probably lean a teensy bit more to the bourgeois liberal side, as opposed to leaning towards the punk radical side before this video. Saying 'nice spooks, nerd!' to Nazis is fun, and so is giving a knuckle sandwich to the militant ones. But in the end talking them down and getting them to be more rational is probably the more rewarding choice.
When I'm at pride, I kind of want to be proud of my own heterosexuality. I am a cis, hetero male and I want to be able to wave a flag just like the trans people and asexual people and be proud to be straight.
Watching this a year later and noting they just loaded the first minorities on the trains....
Props for the Story of the Eye visual reference. I bet you like Of Montreal, too, you self-actualizing twee as fuck bourgeois millennial gender-liberated hipster.
Loved this video.
Contrapoints is a woke filthyfrank.
It always okay to punch Nazis, but how do we truly distinguish a Nazi from a loudmouth crazy idiot?
thank you for this
«That’s because people like you refuse to have their ideological purity tainted by the subtlety and ambiguity of the world.»   Wow. You just put into words what i have been struggling with for such a long time. I’ve been a «leftist» pretty much all my life, but was seduced by parts of the anti-sjw crowd.   This quote however, is exactly how i feel about EITHER side of the political SPECTRUM. I emphasize the word spectrum, because i thought that is what it’s supposed to be, but on platforms like youtube you do not get views most of the time, by saying that the issue is highly nuanced and not as fucking black and white as you think it is.  Thank you, sincerely. I felt forced to choose between extremes, but you have so far provided witty, nuanced and absolute amazing critique of both sides, even though you aspire to promote more left-leaning thinking.
The problem with the "punch nazis" debate is that getting someone to change their mind is not the prime purpose of a public debate. Your purpose during a debate is to convince the audience. It's hard to convince someone of anything if all you do is punch the other guy in the face. Sure you momentarily shut him up, but he's just going to come back with his same talking points, and now people are going to see him as a victim, and won't be willing to listen to you. That being said if nazis ever did start trying to take over the government then yeah. Bash the Fash.
Sad fact: We will never outviolence nazis! I can understand the urge to try to, but no. Violence is their turf, it’s their bread‘n butter. You want to beat them? Choose a different battlefield!
This is your internal shower dialogue just put into a youtube vid, right? Cuz I have the same internal discussions...
You're a Duda or Dudess.  The first is also doubt in spanish! Anyways, you are going to be a Classic, studied at universities
I've been frustrated with a lot of milquetoast "liberals" for a long time like a lot of people. I know not every Trump supporter is a militant fascist. At the end of the day...Trump really has nothing to do with the situation. There's literal Nazis and Fascists walking the streets. They've killed people. They've incited violence towards marginalized groups and outright condoned killing people. Knocking one of those fuckheads out is self defense. These are dangerous people.
Violence just can't be the answer. I wish it were that easy as well but it's just not a serious long term solution. I'm sure it feels great, not having been raised by a single severely disabled socially left-wing Quaker woman and left mostly to my own autodidact tendencies anyway maybe I'd have thrown a few hands by now myself. But a punch isn't enough and even if we kill them all they're just gonna keep coming back. We need a serious long term solution because the natsee punchers are likely right that this is super cereal. ...despite my lame south park reference. It'd be cool if bringing a collection of molecules into contact with another collection of molecules with force in slight excess of what is necessary to cause minor and quite temporary topical hematoma could bring an end to a decades old malicious monstrous hate-orgy buuuuuuuuttt... Not sure that's how physics work. Pretty sure it stops at minor temporary topical hematoma. And again, even if we were talking about murder and not just thrown hands they'd just keep coming back. I guess if we all agree to murder natsees on site until we complete our rotting of our planet anyway maaaayyybe but then in the time until they get killed they're just gonna act out even more. In short, I'm so strongly on the side of the natsee punchers that I can't in good conscious condone natsee punching. I mean.... I can't claim it's a viable solution anyway..... xp
All the arguments could be played with commies instead of Nazis, and it wouldn't change a bit, ykr?
Great video.
'that gat real? didn't expect it from contrapoints
I think there are actually 2 separate issues here that I hear getting conflated a lot. One, is it ethical to punch Nazis? And two, should society allow people to punch Nazis? IMO, the answer to the former is yes, but despite that, the answer to the latter is no.  Also, despite the fact that I don't have a moral problem with the guy who punched RS, I do have a problem with the strategy of the thing. How long ago did it happen? Like 18 months ago? And we're still talking about it. I'm not saying I think RS paid some guy to attack him for the attention, but it doesn't seem like a half bad strategy to stay in the spotlight, garner sympathy and support, and drum up fear of his opponents. We shouldn't be just handing that to him
no clear line
You're so fucking awesome!! <3
This is very very good. Love the channel
It's like me arguing with my ex
"I'll kill your face off" — LOL  "[shooting happens with Beethoven's 9th in the background, which has lyrics 'Alle Menschen werden Brüder' (all of mankind will become brothers)]" — lol @ irony :D
"Are you even a real punk.  You look like your mom dropped you off at hot topic."
Love your use of Wagner... do I? I dunno... it worked
is this the dialectic
Lotta tough pills in this one. I think every Leftist should consider this video... and I come from a more Smashy-Smashy direction.
truth exists independent of privilege. Just saying
I know this feel
You are really something
the problem i have with the punch a nazi idea is how long before people advocate killing   these people for their political view.
There are a lot of knobs that I would like to punch in the face. Some of them I would like to shoot in the dick/pussy whatever the case may be. However, just like the social justice fuck heads proved at Evergreen, transgressive douchebag behavior is counter productive and drives good people who would otherwise be on our side to the other side. Brett Weinstein and Jonathan Haidt for example. As you said yourself Madame ContraPoints, social justice warriors need to be cool.
Come on people, calm down. Let's have a Pepsi.
It is not impossible to change your feelings like you can change your thoughts. Before I was 17, I was a right wing christian (Now a far-left Athiest/Ironic Cultist) and when i was 8 i was literally antisemetic (although i didnt even knoe ehat that word meant then.) so its not even hard to consider and change your feelings.  I even made my depression better (though not cured, mind you, im just better at policing my thoughts, though.) through meditation.
When you run into Progressive Army on twitter...
i just found this youtube channel today, and am watching a few of your videos. so far this one is the funniest, what with the way that your communist alter-ego calls you a CIS white male, and especially the line "are you even areal punk? you look like your mum dropped you off at a greenday concert in 2002"  thank you for making these videos.
Damnit. I got so into making my point about dialogue and violence that I forgot what I originally came here to say, which is, this video is EXCELLENT. It's damn hard to communicate ambiguity, and to expressed mixed feelings about a difficult topic, especially when violence is involved. I felt how strongly you are conflicted, as anyone should be when we're talking about the use of violence. The people who worry me are the ones who are absolutely sure when it comes to this.
It isn't realistic to think that you can have a dialogue with a Nazi. Their entire philosophy revolves around a denial of the humanity of anyone who disagrees with them. Therefore, they are, by their own rules, disqualified from the discussion. You can't denounce the open society, announce your intent to destroy it, and then claim its privileges and the respectful attention of those who have agreed to play by its rules. You can't show up at the soccer game with a machete, and then claim that you're being "repressed" when the ref won't allow you to use it.  And if you ignore the rules and whip out your machete anyway, you don't get to whine when the other players stomp you into a thin paste. You changed the game. It's not sensible to expect everyone else to play by the rules that you're flouting. They're not being hypocrites, they're reacting out of self-preservation and a rightful outrage at the danger you represent.  Nobody should have to put up with Nazis. Period. Disrupt them any way you can.
wow, thisssss pretty perfectly summarizes an inner dialog that I have been having the past couple of years.  I am almost tempted to post some journal entries of mine just so you can see how very closely you captured something that has been troubling me.  If I though you read comments of video this old I might, but I am mostly commenting on your videos in the hopes that this helps your channel in anyway considering I am in school and broke and can't support.  I should sleep.  I have a feeling this is just rambling nonsense.
:'(  It has been written: "Liberals get the bullet too."  Lovely. :(
🙍‍♂️: what you need to understand is that you're a cis white man 🤦🏼‍♀️: OH COME ON
I have lost a lot of left wing freinds for exatly this. They think I lost the faith or just don't get how stiling the right is justified. I try to explain to them that everone thinks they are the ones who are right, that we can't say that since we are the good guys we can shit on our principles when dealing with the other side. Or that lying, exageration, and agression only harm our credibility with the only people that matter, that being the center. And my efforts go about as well as what was shown in this Vid. I try now to engage more with those in the middle, as the far left is just as unreachable as the far right.
That was so FUCKING FUNNY, that slide into pseudo-self-righteous-name-calling at the end was glorious. But of course, it was also such a wonderful example of how fractured debate amongst the Left can just lead to self-aggrandizing ally-posturing as opposed to actual, fruitful conversation about paths forward/compromises to make in support of everyone affected by the more dangerous outcomes of extremist conservative thought.
Well this was really well reasoned and all but now a year of reality later we don't have to pretend like we know how this is going to go down anymore. Richard Spencer has cancelled all his speaking engagements because, and I quote, "Antifa has won." And he's not the only one learning that Trump's Teflon Umbrella covers Trump and no one else. It is legitimately dangerous to be a Nazi again. Thank god for Antifa.
this video gave me a headache. My pessimistic instinct is to agree with the radical, but my political science education agrees with the other. Also the overlapping audio was a bit overwhelming.
Man. This is a great channel.
This is exactly how I feel about Fresno State professor Randa Jarrar calling for violence against Richard Spencer. On one hand, he’s a Nazi, who cares???   On the other, no one deserves violence wished upon them.
Excellent. Well put together and rhetorically interesting, a kind of visual summary of what happens with no foundations - everything is guilt by association and the use of culturally created linguistic pathos.
Went its 3:50 am and you are watching Contra and just loving the shit out of it. . . Few Things 1) the degree to which we should use violence on fascism in my opinion depends on the relative instability of the space around us; right now our nation isn't unstable enough for fascism to have a risk of a full take over of the US government.... we are just on the edge of such a scenario I do however think 2) I don't feel bad for people who punch Nazis and if Scott Pruitt got blown up by eco-terrorists I wouldn't lose a wink of sleep 3)  at the end of the day we just can't use violence  right now because there is always an issue of determining who gets to determine what exactly a nazi is , as much as I severely dislike the GOP they are confused bigots not quite nazis 4) I too have that quadrrant in my liberal heart that says , "O come on this is obvious pc bs" I try to objectively look at an issue and determine if that gut feeling is actually correct but I think its a good thing to be skeptical of liberal identity politics claims.
I thought hippies hated war...
"I'm keeping the pearls" haha. I love your sketches, really great framing tools. I'm not for punching anyone who basically just wants to talk. Because then you get to make fun of them and not come off as a tyrannical maniac, like the Antifa-types, who make no mistake, are tyrannical maniacs who are making everything much much worse. I'm more than happy to hear far-left and far-right ideas get talked about, dissected, mauled, defended, parodied, the works, but we can't just go punching people.
Whoa! I have this debate with myself in my head all the time!
I am embarrassingly late to this vid but it's hands down one of my favorites of all time!  Too many points to touch on a year late but I'd have to say I'm a lefty with "all my heart". But I'm so disillusioned with so much of the left and their inability to speak to people or willingness to reevaluate their positions and consider being less rigid in their ideology.   Again, amazing video. I'm very happy to have finally seen it! Keep it up! We need more like you!
Best leftist channel on the tube
Violence isn’t the answer.  Violence is the question.  The answer is yes.
Unfortunately you didn’t point out that the “comrade” in the video is responding ridiculously to a non-existent issue. No one anywhere in power is trying to kill someone for their race or gender. This is absolute RIDICULOUSNESS. It is *as* ridiculous as the flat earthers and 9/11 conspiracy nuts. Antifa is MOSTLY comprised of bored, idiot, misinformed children. The adult persons who actually believe the shit the “comrade” was saying in this video are genuinely mentally disturbed.
Great stuff, that was just like reading 10 years of MRR in 15 minutes.
first contra video i've liked
Great video. I do find the ideas of us tearing ourselves apart over issues and having trouble bringing the public to our side to be noteworthy.
My local radio station played an ad quite often telling SJWs to go find bleach in the store and drink it. I took notice. Very shitty.
<3 :*
The problem with the left.... i like you contra but saying that theres one specific problem with the left is just bullshit
the punk radical is my style icon
Lol you went full Dennis with the Golden God thing
I love the deraanged double rant at the end thats just "feshkjdxcjsndnf q qh white male thurjkdjakjlkdf jrgfdcnvjk xwhite male iordjflkcjkssjklwjg white male rhoiegjdfjks d white male rhdgjfckvkbhjdtfjjeksx white male"
What is the song at 8:33?
The only way this video could have been improved is if there was a scene at the end with the two dead lefties and an a nazi walks over and makes a comment about divided enemies being easy to defeat.
The problem with actual violence against your political opponents (besides breaking the golden rule) is that punching someone won't convince many people that the punchee is wrong; but it will give the punchee a lot of sympathy. The net effect is probably that you undermine your own standpoint and strengthens the opposition; which is exactly the what you do not want.
I have to admit, you make some good points here, and while I think your claims of Spencer's Nazism are unsupported, you were pretty reasonable here. I only with you were this consistently sensible with your other videos.
PUSH FORWARDS COMRADES!!! WE MUST DESTROY THE REMAINING FASCIST!!!!
I prefer killing Communists.
Ahhh, antifa, the gasoline on the alt right dumpster fire. May their symbiosis lead them both to mutual destruction. Or at least eventual obscurity.
Is this a parody of Laci Green's transformation?  Anyway, this is just like the internal dilemma I have on this... but I still have no problem with punching real Nazis.
I empathyze more with the "moderate" character, in the past I was realy neonazi believing in all the conspiracy theories, and I'm ashamed of that like a person get ashamed remembering doing disgusting things as a kid, but it made me more empathetic with this people, meking me better to understand even this king of person even when they are homophobic, racist os misoginistic, and I know that most of them need a second chance, and like me they can slowly chenge their opinions and realize that they are completely wrong, but of course, if someone webt to you with a torch and a nazi or a confederate flag screaming at you at least for me it's ok to punch the hell out of them, of course that it's a crime and you can't get caged, but it may be worth
Some libs on twitter say their hearts want to punch fascists, but their brains say no. I feel the opposite: at heart I’m disgusted by violence, but my brain says that it’s all that works.  Like most anarchists, I’d entrust violence to independent mass orgs (antifa) over State authorities, because where does the latter get us.
fascism is  not an opinion....
Is it morally acceptable? Of course. Is it strategically responsible to randomly assault ppl for a brief moment of satisfaction? No. It engenders sympathy for the devil.
People who punch Fascists crave the Fascist's sense of certainty. One of the identifying features of Fascism is the suppression of opposition by violence; punching someone you don't agree with. If you oppose Fascists, don't you do so because you recognise that the society you want recognises plurality of voices. Punching Fascists does nothing to promote that and nothing to prevent Fascism.
Its interesting how the Left (as in communists socialists, anarchists etc), think liberals are so soft when it comes to fascism, given the brutal atrocities liberal democracies committed to fight fascism during the second world war; bombing civilian population centers (e.g Dresden), starving up to 3 million Indians to supply food to the troops ( the infamous great Bengal famine of 1943), and allying themselves with one of the most brutal regimes in the history of humanity; The USSR under Stalin, to fight fascism. When the dust settled, and the leading Nazis were put on trial for crimes against humanity; the hypocrisy wasn't lost on some;  "The result of the Nuremberg trial has been a well-deserved fate for a group of evil men whose terrible guilt has been thoroughly demonstrated for all time; yet the force of the condemnation is not unaffected by the fact that the nations sitting in judgment have so clearly proclaimed themselves exempt from the law which they have administered."-The economist, The Nuremberg Judgment, Oct 5th 1946.
rational debate has never worked on fascism ever the only thing that has ever stopped fascism is action weather that action be violent or not this is supported by history sorry but they dont give a shit about rational debate all it will do is give them a platform and validate them as some alternative political group instead of the genocidal fucks they are
Wow, so well done. I felt the struggle for real.
Amazing! You earned a sub! Loved the message. :D :D :D
Hideous man, you are an ugly, vile twink.  Get over it.
What are you doing about NORTH KOREA, communist shit head?
" I think most of us agree that anti-fascist violence is sometimes necessary" - No its not. Who gave you the right to judge who its Ok to attack? The left see "Nazis" everywhere. If they didn't they wouldn't be able to be brave Nazi hunters would they?
I live in a place where we the lefties are trapped in this loop with fascists. We go to rallies against laws that were made or ecological problems or police violence and asically nazis know our faces and such. Then we are asked why some of the activists have their faces hidden or why do we have peppersprays in our pockets while like once a month there is another attack on one of the activists or, for example, people were taken to the police while protesting an animal circus show and passing leaflets as though they were a terrorist organisation (police arrived before the event in full equipment to pack like 25 people) and we don't start the violence but if a guy say beats some of the attackers in defence it's always demonised (there was an article once saying that my friend attacked 10 people when he was jumped on downtown) so that's really sad.
Shooting laptops solves nothing....
This reminds me of a conversation you had with Gwen No Fear
Any adult person who supports communism is obviously not against genocide and evil.....  (Unless they're genuinely retarded and can't put 2 and 2 together)
This video covers the topic well, but only as a white person. At every point of the video, I thought to myself, "If someone is advocating for my death or emmigration, why would I care whether they were punched or not. They aren't going to listen to me regardless".
"white male"  "cis" lol
Violence begets violence. One need not sympathize with a fascist to want to avoid public violence against a fascist.
8:15 Tools! I HAVE TO HAVE MY TOOLS!!!!!1!
Omfg I love you this is amazing, you articulate EVERYTHING I wish would be spoken about.
Okay, so I just discovered you, and this is as far in the binge I got right now. I adore your work.  But fuck you for making me have a fucking chicken egg fetish now!  I'm all for learning new things, but I didn't need that one.... I did always like eating runny eggs.... oh god it's adding up..... FUCK YOU!  (With love.)
I can state as a former conservative this video makes some really good points. My conservatism stemmed from how I was raised and it grew because of my emotions. It’s easy to feel sorry for ourselves or feel we are being victimized or unfairly treated, when in reality the other side actually has it much worse. The grass is always greener, and everyone always feels as if they got the short end of the stick, I believe it’s human nature to be self-centered. Political passion derives from emotions. We have to rationally be able to explain and expose the system for what it really is, in order to bring out the emotions that make us feel bad for others instead of ourselves, thus changing our minds.
The communist looks more girly, though...
I have a conversation like this with family (who are either left wing or centre generally speaking) a-lot ... but ironically not with people who hold right wing or nationalistic views - I can talk to them usually more calmly. With more success than those who hold views similar to mine even - usually the more hostile an argument is the closer i am to their views ???  But I fall on the wrong side of the argument with my other views. I do think its okay to commit violence against a group willing to use violence themselves...  but against someone who doesn't think that's okay, there is no sense to it in someone who just 'thinks a thing'. Being able to empathise with someone and to understand them are often two completely different things for me at least, I can understand what someone is saying along those lines and try to actually talk to them BUT emotionally i cannot put myself in their place. That's not a barrier i can cross in my heart of hearts. However, I dont think its okay just to shut off violence as a tool - especially if you are only considering something like the act of punching someone violence (i.e. excluding "systemic violence", such as exclusion of health care and lower life expectancy faced by Aboriginal people in Australia especially those in rural regions). Because I genuinely do think that having an "open" discussion is a problem of its own (as i view it, its like a panel of people on a show talking about climate change with one doctorate weilding expert and someone who was on something at one time and thinks the chinese are ... lying about it?? something about the economy; While that forms a numerical balance it doesn't create a weighting that matches the validity, qualification or evidence for each of their statements).  As this video is I don't really feel like it explores it in a way i can relate to in ways that i've heard it - I guess, its bits and pieces of arguments I've heard stuck together on the wrong Juke-boxes of people. But that's just my experience with this debate in my personal life ... well of course missing the huge part where my serial adulterer of a father (I wish this was a joke) comes in and says that violence can never ever be the option. ever.
Wins argument against yourself.
Honestly, if I thought that violence against self-proclaimed Nazis and white supremacists would completely stop them, I'd punch every Nazi I found regardless of my own proclivities towards avoiding violence. Unfortunately, unprovoked, preemptive violence is not a solution to the problems we face. The simple and unavoidable fact is that there is not always or even often a clear distinction between a person who is a Nazi/white nationalist.  That being said, refraining from outbursts of unprovoked violence doesn't mean that these people have to be tolerated.
It's strange that the one upholding the side that its ok to punch Nazis is a communist, considering the fact that commies are just as disgusting as Nazis. However I understand it considering that a lot of antifa has commie roots.
Here's one of the biggest things that hurts fascism: you CAN be proud of your ethnic heritage if your white. I personally can trace my heritage to Ireland, Poland, Croatia, and even a semi-autonomous region of France that has a unique culture. I can celebrate my heritage by getting a Celtic Knot tattoo, taking a river cruise up the Danube, cook some brudet, and do a cultural thing related to Alsace Lorraine (apparently most villages have a family-centered festival called the Messti or the Kilbe, that sounds fun) and no one would call me a Nazi for it. The problem comes from this idea that we can have pride in the unified "White" or "European" that's not actually a thing. We didn't have things like slavery or residential schools that took away our knowledge of that stuff nor do we have systems and laws that disproportionately target us.
On this subject, this book might be of interest: http://www.ericachenoweth.com/research/wcrw/ I haven't read it, but have seen her talking about the research. If she's right, empirical evidence is on the side of the bourgeois liberal: non-violent action is more than twice as effective in achieving political aims.
I wrote out this long winded comment, but instead I'm just gonna say...this is where nonviolence in the face of Fascism leads:  Sophia Magdalena Scholl (9 May 1921 – 22 February 1943) was a German student and anti-Nazi political activist, active within the White Rose non-violent resistance group in Nazi Germany.[1][2]  She was convicted of high treason after having been found distributing anti-war leaflets at the University of Munich (LMU) with her brother, Hans. As a result, they were both executed by guillotine. Since the 1970s, Scholl has been extensively commemorated for her anti-Nazi resistance work.  https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sophie_Scholl  By Guillotine...so when is enough enough?
drunkest ive seen you yet!
We should bash the fash
I have to say its like you took a picture inside my mind when I think about this subject I consider my self a communist and this is perfect I am going to show this video at the next meeting I think this raises a lot of valid points I think the left needs to meet somewhere on the middle exhaust the democratic option until they give us no choice would be the short way of saying us.
I´m actually surprised of how well you managed to defend both positions in such a realistic way. I guess both are in your mind constantly.
Dude, that was pitch-perfect Well played
I'm gonna punch some natsees, boyz
THE ONLY PEOPLE I SEE BEING OPPRESSED ARE WHITE NATIONALISTS AND PRO WHITE ADVOCATES.CENSORING AND BANNING PRO WHITES IS ALL THE RAGE.WHO'S THE FASCISTS NOW??????YOU ARE BECOMING WHAT YOU CLAIM TO HATE THE MOST.
What a Great Discussion :D
Seems I'm in the minority, but since this is a battle for the mind of the public, which can be swayed, and not the fascists, which is immune to any kind of antithesis, being violent is only going to confirm and justify conservative pundits and retaliatory violence from the right.  Have the conversation on our terms, because no one can speak the language of violence more effectively than the Fascists.
>"people that defend genocide" >Wearing sickle and hammer Go read the Gulag Archipelago, my dude
Punch more nazis.  Action to deny nazis and other fascists a platform and stop them from spreading their genocidal hate is the responsibility of every rational, compassionate human being.  Nazis and other reactionaries are anti-human monsters
Nazi punching is a good thing. Some ideas dont deserve respect. The notion that we should be understanding or tolerant of all things is one of the reasons we are in the mess we are in right now.  Not tolerating intolerance is not itself intolerance. That's goddamn 4chan middle school spin doctoring.  I say punch em, Punch em hard as fuck.
"Lasst Ideen sterben statt Menschen" -Karl Popper
This is a perfect parody of "more radical than thou" sectarian edgelords.
Antifa did themselves no favors at the first Berkley protest/riot with the infamous "Liberals get the bullet too" graffiti.  Not only do right wingers already hate them, but a message like that will alienate a lot of leftists too.
Boy this video sure resonates with me and my various internal conflicts on multiple levels and helps resolve none of them.  ...kinda just nice to know there's another dress-wearin swige fag having the same kind of conflict. Anyway. I should stop drinking.
So many times infighting on the left is conservative voices found their way t the front of politics.
feels like no one won
I've been knocked around for being trans.  If anything it taught me that violence should never been an option.  I get so mad at people on the right,  but, as soon as we start using violence we erode our own ideals.  I never want to be the type of person who would hurt anyone based on their beliefs even if I 100% disagree with them.
There are good arguments you make on both sides, but the preponderance of correct arguments are on the side of your antifa alter ego, you should listen to that side more often.
This is the best one yet
The Nazis called themselves Nazis.  Richard Spencer does not.  Richard Spencer is not a Nazi.  Just an idiot.  got it???
GOLF!? fkin GOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOLF that's the last straw ! unsubing you and your degenerate quiet clappers! xD
you're  right. I don't know how this is going to go down. but I know how it went down. so fuck a Nazi and bash the fash.
I home school my dawtahs with ur videos
Communists hating fascists due to genocide. The fucking irony.
I love the last part when the conversation devolves into both sides name-calling and yapping at each other. Unfortunately, that's an accurate depiction of quality of this whole discourse.
Hmmm, you could almost say that power flows from the barrel of a gun eh?   Marxism is an objectively worse cancer than Nazism.
This didn't age well did it Will?
You shoot like a girl but your erudite evisceration of alt-right stereotypes gives me a hard on in places I never even knew I had erections.
That savage commie should listen to that lady instead of projecting his own paranoid schizofrenia on imaginary "fascist".
Really great video. I think another argument against the antifa character is to point out the hypocrisy of him bringing up  the millions of people losing their heath insurance, deportations, etc, as a result the Trump presidency. When he probably didn't vote and likely buys the "both parties are the same" line of thinking
Well, shit!!!
You're speaking everything I've struggled with about the left in the last year but I'm a clear and considered way
Great internal debate. Both sides have cogent points, but I think ultimately Chomsky was correct: you're either for free speech precisely for the views you despise, or you're not for it at all.   The state  ought not have the right to dictate what is and is not acceptable to espouse--with the typical exceptions: perjury, libel being the first that come to mind.   What worries me, however, isn't an individual promoting genocide, but rather a whole political movement. Violence doesn't seem to be an effective answer to that though. Communists clashing with fascists in Wiemar Germany didn't win. The fascists who were elected to the German government did. They shattered the German communists.   It's also worth pointing out that any support for US foreign policy is support for mass murder. American fascists are only unique in their desire to import this policy into the domestic market. See as examples: our support for the Indonesian regime in the 1950s, Kennedy's invasion of South Vietnam, our support for Pol Pot, Reagan administration's butchering of Central America in the 1980s, Clinton's cruise missile strike in the Sudan, Bush's wars of aggression in the greater Middle East, or Obama's drone strike assassinations .
Punch a Nazi. Every time. All the time.
they shouldn't dress so provocatively
I believe in punching Nazis. But i love their clothes too. And i clique with people who have German in their family like myself, who feel a strong connection to the ww2 propaganda days (because in America that is the first introduction to Germany). That inner struggle, like using that kind of power for good instead of evil. I think we get sucked into it because the propaganda days were clearly persuasive. And it's history, and if you have German in your family those were your people or some distant relative, and are still your people.   There's something to be said about loyalty, you didn't ask for it but you were born with that intense feeling. I don't know whether to call it a phenomenon or genetics but that strange draw to the country is there for some still struggling with the taboo of wanting to explore it. Passed down by our grandparents who grew up closeting their feelings about the country here in America. You can't change what anyone went through, which I've learned that -that guilt spot in the back of my mind is actually something very special. That spot that makes you go "...damn." And thru the years I've had to teach myself that feeling is something to be proud of because it makes you connected. Because how many people actually take that minute when it hits, to turn down your Ramstein & your whole get-up, to send that split half second prayer?  I'm not saying you're obligated. All I'm saying is i've prided and vibed with some cliques and the deeper you get into, what I'll explain for myself, the "fiending" and thriving/exploring those emotions the harder you end up looking at the problems in history as a whole and really appreciating all of it. Not everyone feels that closely connected to it. It's a weird spot to explain w/o the fear of actually being called something even today. Hope this post didn't make anyone cringe. I wish we could talk about it without people getting crazy... But then maybe that's an assumption I tell myself because i recognize the familiar "fiending" (like shrouded cocaine on a frenzy) when people wanna start talking about Germany. I STILL don't know if people are even allowed to talk about this so openly?? I KNOW someone is reading this going "omg this girl is into some sh!t she must be a heartless nazi who doesn't care about history!"  I could break this down, and break this down, and break each and every emotion down for yall in an explanation. But in the end its all about being the hero. Lol, was that too real for yall? ......*awkward silence* :-)
Of fucking course it's okay to punch Nazis in the face! If I were that antifa guy who punched Richard Spencer in the face, I'd have finished up the job! I'd have stomped Spencer's head in until it burst like a melon, then pulled my pants down and taken a shit all over what was left of his face so he literally would be a shitface.
Dammit..I..agree with BOTH !!! >:(  What to do...
I love you
I got to say this is the first video of yours that I don't like. Treat the Antifa guy like a straw man when he does in fact raise some good questions and points. I'm not saying he is right, just that you should treat his concerns with more respect.
What a joke. Leftists don't have guns. Natzis do.
This is great. Keep up the good work!
100. Million. Dead. Under. Communism. Swastikas are mathematically proven to be 16.6x less offensive than the hammer and sickle.
you wanna know why the right and the left hates you? you are smart and smartness is their deadliest enemy.
I think many of the leftists who are extreme like this are traumatized by growing up queer. I have been emotionally abused since childhood and this is an extremely common experience among lgbt youth. At least if I admit my own failings in this. My emotions get the best of me when it comes to these topics and I can admit that is not useful. But at the same time the trauma I've experienced forces me to have these extremely emotional responses to political arguments. I can not help my emotional responses at this point in my life. Being autistic and having ptsd means im not gonna make a gr8 debator. So I guess it's sort of just left me in this limbo of being a not very good acitivist but also highly effected by all of activism. Idk I guess my question would be what else am I supposed to do, the emotional healing required to do most of these things will take me years but the social climate is making life for me harder and harder.
This is a really great idea, a strange self-dialogue to either air your mixed feelings toward political beliefs/events, or to examine the left leaning views you already hold. I really love channels that don't insist on "un-biased" explanations, this kind of thing is really great and interesting, and fun to watch! Wish u all the best Mrs. Points
What is punching Nazis/"bashing the fash" even? For Communists does that extend to punching right wing libertarians, right wing populists, and conservatives?
*Truth* I think the right wants me dead and the left won't let me express myself without reprisal.
After giving this video a nice patient watch, I am going to go ahead and take a stab and assume that this was meant to satirize both sides of the ridiculously long-drawn argument over whether it's permissible or practical to fire the first fist-shot on someone with contrasting political views.
If nazis are safe on the streets then no one else is.
Hitting people that not have attacked you first is always wrong. I would never be okay with punching anti gun , anti freedom, anti whatever idiots. We all have the right of self defense and none of us have the right to punch people who simply disagree with us or anybody.
Would love to see your love commentary on this one
The Wagner use is awesome. I mean I love Wagner, but yup it's funny in this context (just for being sure, I'm a stirnerist/egoist/individualist anarchist, way off from being a nazi). XD
Get out of my fuckin head, ContraPoints.
I should've shown this to everyone when I was being called a nazi because of opposing the punch a "nazi" thing.
Hail Richard Spencer
I'm a Nazi but I like this channel
Nazis do not endorse genocide
This video failed to make any points whatsoever
ContraPoints: Best at criticism, best at self criticism.
Jesus Christ. This video is basically expediting every single stupid conversation I've had on reddit against libs and cons. Thank you.
10:49. THIS
Very well done.
I 110% love you.
I still love your presentation and i still disagree with most. Real Neo nazi's, kkk, facists etc are few and far between.  Walking up to a person and hitting them is assault pure and simple.  A lot of the people getting punched aren't anything close to facist/nazi.  From outside looking in, I would say best thing happen for nazis and friends is antifa, bamn, blm etc.
Paradox of Tolerance
"Through the best of times, through the worst of times, through Nixon and through Bush...."
More retorts in life should be begun with "No, shithead! ..."
The thing is, Hitler didn't rise unopposed. Communist and socialist activists battled the stormtroopers in the streets for years before he finally took power. All it achieved was to push the conservative elites into his arms, (as the lesser of two evils), because he promised a return to law and order and the protection of business interests. When conservatives see you sucker-punching fascists, all it does is increase their fear of the radical left, and their sympathy for authoritarian viewpoints to counter that perceived threat. Society becomes more and more divided as people feel forced to pick a side.   The only force that can defeat fascism in a capitalist society is the law. If Hitler and his cronies had been imprisoned for life after the attempted putsch in 1923, the movement would have died. You wait for them to break the law, then you crush them using it.  By all means, organize against fascists politically. Oppose their entry into the system, their normalization in culture. But do so within the confines of the law, so that it's clear that the threat to social order comes from them, not you. Otherwise you contribute to the conditions that fuel their rise.  I know it's more appealing to fight against an ideologically evil opponent with the 'language they understand.' It feels good. But it's when fascism becomes acceptable and gains the power of the state that you really need to worry. What matters in times like this is that the despised 'center-ground' holds firm.
That was amazing.
Update: ‘tell that to Puerto Rico’
Ok, at this point something MUSt be wrong, I've come across several of your videos that are not marked as liked by me, I seriously think this is youtube screwing with us!
Great! And Wagner!!
Besides 3:40-5:02, I'm loving tankie contra.
RIP. Bruce and Trixie. :'(  You are both hot...
How many people checked their Skype when the video started?
Holy hell. An actual nuanced discussion that presents different legitimate viewpoints and doesn't decide which one is correct, but rather invites the audience to decide who they agree with or whether or not to agree at all? This is amazing. I'm really enjoying your channel. Keep up the the good work you beautiful piece of shit!
Back in the day I watched a lot of anti-SJWs. They were idiots, but it was more for venting than for edification, because I also interact with a lot of idiot lefties on a near-daily basis. Then your video about free speech got spread among them and I watched it, and I found you were more entertaining and made better points than they did. The other day I was thinking about my feelings toward leftists and Social Justice, and I realized that you actually made a pretty positive impression, and that I wanted to see more content from you. You're like the voice in my head criticising everyone's bad points all the time.  Similarly, Laci Green (sorry, maybe) started making inroads with all the centrists you get frustrated with, and I found that she was more agreeable than I initially found.  I'm not saying that I let others paint a strawman of social justice for me, I was definitely familiar with it, but I never took the time to steelman either. Why would I? The vast majority of people who express any opinion are going to be bad at it, it's tedious and time-consuming to suss out the substance.  I guess what I'm saying is if you hold rightists to their "free speech" and "marketplace of ideas" thing, you can probably get a lot more mileage than punching nazis, as much as I won't cry about a punched nazi.
Pay mind as I say this that I'm no ancom or bougie liberal. Make of that what you will.   I don't believe that Nazis are worth attempting rational discourse with or even punching them out. If an armed mob of white supremacists waving lit torches around wants to hold their own little Kristallnacht... well, why should the right wing hog the Second Amendment all to itself? These people are intent on justifying themselves with the First Amendment in order to hoodwink rational people and ultimately subvert the Bill of Rights entirely in favor of mass genocide and ethnocentrism. There is *no* room for negotiation.  For all its faults the U.S. had a pretty good sense of moral clarity when it came to Nazism in the '40s (well, outside of things like Operation Paperclip but that's another can of worms) and the only thing that's changed about these pieces of shit is how they disseminate their failed philosophy. We sent conscripts over a fucking ocean and thousands of miles to take care of the Nazi problem the first time. Now they're in our own backyards. We should thank these wannabe Himmlers for saving us the plane ticket while we deliver 55 grains of lead at 3000 feet a second directly into their diseased brainpans.
As much as I sympathize with violence against Nazis,I personally believe the most effective way to deal with them is to get them in situations where they have their opinions challenged and defeated on a public forum
Glorious
Eh. I'm kinda with the punk radical, but not because of any sort of need to protect anyone else. I just want Nazis to never be around. Punch folks who want to kill me, that's a pretty decent line of reasoning imo. Bourgeois liberal has a point and I ain't mad at all about that line of reasoning. But I'mma smack Nazis lol.
This was the most realistic version of most trump supporter/average normal republican/conservative just-wanna-keep-more-of-my-money-from-the-government-and-be-left-alone American thought. Well done.
the weakness of her argument that using violence against fascists leads to reactive violence ignores fact that fascists are quite prepared to use violence against peaceful protestors & minorities regardless. Also accepts fascist argument that "we're just violent to defend ourselves/our culture". Still tainted by liberal bourgeois idea that all violence is equally bad or that only the state has the right of monopoly of violence. Hitler rose coz establishment aided and abetted while the SPD & KPD spent all time fighting each other. If SPD & KPD Had mobilised it's base to take down Nazi party in 1933 violently, then violence would have prevented all the future violence that occurred under Nazis & because of WWII. A bit of violence now might prevent untold future violence & death/destruction. Hitler didn't overstate re how he could have been smashed in early days. Hell, if Roehm had known what was going to happen his SA could have stopped Hitler and quite changed the nature of NSDAP.
Is this like- a representation of your inner conflicts regarding Antifa?
You are literally being way to hard on yourself
Oooooh boy, here we go... I watched it a second time in order to formulate my arguments, it took so fucking long, I hope this didn't go to waste lol.  2:44 to 2:54 - I agree with the premise of reciprocity in general, though that's kind of a misuse of the term "democracy." However, when it comes to specific ideologies such as fascism on the right or Stalinism on the left, I'll take the side of ContraPunk. 'Punk has a better argument here, one that I agree with; however, presenting them as an argument-hogging jackass gives the viewer a negative impression of their arguments. In my experience, at least, most of the argument-hogging was done by liberal centrists.  4:13 to 4:18 - I've never seen any other trans person say this; I *have* seen them express discomfort with cis people _equating_ them with crossdressers, though I suppose many are against the stereotypical drag show as it tends to reduce transgenderism and transvestism to a gimmick to be laughed at. Either way, that was a slight misrepresentation of the argument.  5:14 - Golf... how bourgeois of you, Contra. 😜  5:54 - Who said violence was fun? I thought this was about necessity.  6:34 - Violence isn't necessarily the *only* way, it's just that sometimes it may be necessary in some fashion.  7:12 to 7:30 - This isn't an argument against leftism or revolutionary politics, it's an argument against IdPol (identity politics). Watch Mexie's video on IdPol, and if you want to, watch Xexizzy's response. I personally don't believe that different perspectives should be silenced or disregarded; however, the right to narrate, as Mexie puts it, is about minorities voicing their experience after having been a part of a systemically oppressed group. This is a belief held across the lefty spectrum, whether they be liberals, libertarian socialists, AnComs, Marxist-Leninists, etc. Hell, many of us see it as "counter-revolutionary," which I can see why, in certain circumstances, such as the extreme case that causes alienation of privileged people.  7:55 to 8:08 - I know this was done for a gag, but some people seriously believe they should be proud of their white heritage that has been responsible for much of the systemic oppression and subjugation in modern history.  8:41 - what does this even mean.  9:00 - again, this is an argument against IdPol, not leftism or antifascism. Even some believers in IdPol feel this way, especially if the person in question is a Marxist/Anarcha-feminist reacting to liberal feminism.  9:49 to 10:12 - I completely agree with you here. My only disagreement is that this started after the discussion of punching Richard Spencer, a committed fascist.  10:20 - Nothing wrong with a little anger towards the system, and it depends on what you mean by "violence."  10:37 - but... but I love memes and jokes... -but no seriously, we do need to be funnier, satire will help a lot in convincing undecided stragglers, it's sad but true-  10:50 - again, I agree. If faced with a non-committed semi-supporter of fascism or the aforementioned straggler, I would prefer to attempt non-violent methods above all else. My frustration instead stems from arguments with centrists and liberals where they accuse me of not wanting a dialogue only because I believe in revolutionary leftist politics. Also, haven't you yourself expressed a distaste with debate, as it ends up being a popularity contest?  11:38 - Eventually, a revolution will be necessary the elite won't exactly willingly relinquish their power, will they? This revolution may be violent, it may be political, or it may be both. Even then, violence shouldn't be considered off-limits; the American Revolutionaries used violence in the face of violence to overthrow the British monarchy's rule over them. The enslaved people of Haiti used violence to overthrow the rule of the French colonists. Same with the Kurds in Rojava fighting against the Islamic State. Tipping over trash cans or smashing some windows shouldn't be considered as morally reprehensible as promoting unjust wars, ruining the lives of the many to benefit the few, or kicking millions of people off of health insurance.  12:00 to 12:05 ... except we're the ones retaliating against them and/or the systemic oppression?  12:07 - I'm a transgender woman who is not straight. I am not a person of color, though I am a member of a marginalized group. Does this invalidate my stance? Can I protect myself and my fellow human beings?  Also    YoU fUcKiNg WhItE -genderqueer* I'm sorry this is for the joke please don't hate me- mAlE.  <3
Lololololololol
titty uwu
The level of self reflexivity in this video is commendable.
You fucking white male
I didn't comprehend the golfing digression but ok.  Nice propaganda piece, comrade.
It's really a comfort to hear another person have this argument (likewise for some of the other arguments you have presented).
Such a great video! thanks
god this issue is so delicate because in one side I agree completely that neo-nazis/white nationalists are beyond logical argumentation and trying to engage will only give them a platform, also seeing them getting sucker punched is so satisfying BUT it won't take it anywhere, they won't really be afraid and it only make centrists feel like their dumbass horseshoe theory is right
I just discovered this channel yesterday and had to take a minute to say 'I love it!!'
No one won. America lost
This misogynist mocking women thinks his opinion matters? He has to go back.
I can't believe your severe mental illness allows you to upload videos. You must have a handler. Wow. You scream 'porn addiction' and victim of child rape and perpatrator. The kind of person communists love to exploit. I'd like to deport you.
What do you think of Devon Tracy?
I have a feeling that she would have a slightly different view if this was made recently, a lot has changed since that day. We have nazis in the street now.  With loaded firearms.  Some have even shot at people.  Many have killed people too since then. It's happening.
I remain the liberal and I'm proud of it !!! No tyranny of the Right or Left!! So there!!! 😀
Best political video I've seen in months, and I watch political videos all day.
tldr beat the fuck out of fascists no holds barred because they want to do that to you and saying otherwise is a lie
Brilliant.
TECHNICALLY: The quote went "Only one danger could have jeopardized this development – if our adversaries had understood its principle, established a clear understanding of these ideas, and not offered any resistance. Or, alternatively, if they had from the first day annihilated with the utmost brutality the nucleus of our new movement." (https://zuriz.wordpress.com/2013/10/06/smashing-the-nucleus/). But whatever. He was Hitler not an intellectual giant, and I doubt the first would do jack(boot) shit.
I wonder if this is based on actual experience or is it just a caricature of antifa types? If you ask me, violent opposition to nazis and fascists is necessary and groups like antifa have always been there. In the UK, where I live, the 43 Group was set up by Jewish ex-servicemen and women who had just fought in the war and saw, with horror, Mosely's blackshirts in their neibourhoods using the same old anti-semitisc hate- mongering to gain support. They used violent tactics against Mosely's new fascist movement and it worked, they were the reason the fascists lost support, they hounded the fascists whereever they went and countered violence and hate with violence- ofcourse, they were much more organised than antifa are today. Other groups have existed and physically fought the far-right off the streets, the battle of Lewisham was effective against the National  Front in 1977, this was just local people of all races getting together to physically oppose the NF on the streets. Anti-Facist Action was also successful in the 1980's and 90's. So, I can understand the antifa perspective. I'm not saying they always have the right tactics though but in my country atleast, the violent opposition seems to have worked time and time again. It can also be said that the alt-right are similar to the British far-right- a violent threat to those they perceive as their enemies (non-whites and immigrants, LGBTQ people and feminists and anti-capitalists), but not strong enough to gain power. They are strong enough, however, to effect government policy and opinion. And I have felt for a long time that for as long as the far-right are a violent threat to those they hate, then violent opposition to them is inevitable, also that violnce is the really the only language that fascists and nazis ruly understand- they have the bully boy mentality and need to be stood up to. Things are kinda different these days though, fascists are not so easy to shut down due to the internet giving them a platform.
I really really like this video it gave me a lot of stuff to think about and a new point of view to think about these things from
Just a VERY VERBOSE  word of advice from an old man (65) whose father fought in WW-II and whose grandparents escaped from Mussolini's horrors., Those of you who say "Look you can only prevent NAZIs with force, fuck'em, punch em-out" Yes, on the surface it sounds correct and justified! Hell, it even sounds so logical knowing the horror the German NAZIs have committed and how violent NAZIs are.   Now who is a NAZI today? Who do I punch,  Oh I know that white guy, who the day after 80 people were crushed under the wheels of a truck in France,  says "Goddamn, it I hope Trump keeps them fucking Muuuslims outta here"***  Oh yes obviously he is a NAZI so you punch his face in, you and two fellow SJWs join in and commence to beat his NAZI ass. Now unknown to you, he is actually the grandson of Holocaust survivors, his grandparents were liberated from Treblinka,  by the allies at the end of WW-II. He, in his mind, equates, right or wrongly that  Muslim Terrorists living in Europe are today's NAZIs. He is law abiding, he does not propose killing Muslims here nor anywhere else, Just out of anger, after a terrorist incident, He speaks a  crude, biased bigoted  remark about Trump and Muslims.  Stay with me, I'm almost done,  Also unknown to you and your 2 fellow SJWs ,he has a valid carry permit for a concealed weapon. He carries a pistol because being a Jew and knowing his grandparents history, he will never let himself be a victim. Now imagine  you all live in a "stand your ground" state such as PA or FL or GA or LA or about 20 other such states.  This means, since he is old say 65, and you THREE are young strong and in the prime of life say 19 or 20, the law says he can use deadly force to defend himself when outnumbered and physically  assaulted by people who are of size and strength such that they are capable of causing serious bodily injury to him.  So, he finds himself being pummeled by three much younger, much stronger men, so he pulls his gun and one of you gets "two in the chest and one in the head". The remaining two of you, your friends brains and blood in your hair, shit yourselves and wish  you NEVER started this stupid self righteous behavior.  Now it escalates, a good number of SJWs begin to arm themselves with guns, can't blame them, two of their brothers just got killed by a sick "NAZI" or so the story is told.. Come on you know how facts kinda get twisted sometimes.  AND NOW, with both sides armed, the BLOODBATH  BEGINS!!!  With both sides feeling all righteous and shit or as some might say, "God's on my side" the BLOODBATH BEGINS!  If any of you learned any history about the ELECTION of Hitler than YOU KNOW, THE NAZIs and the COMMUNISTS in Germany , beat each other to a pulp with ax handles and clubs every day of the fucking week for over 2 years!!  Many street brawlers died on both sides also innocent people caught in the crossfire.   When the peaceful, law abiding German people got sick of it, they SWALLOWED Hitler's line of BULLSHIT. They closed their minds to Hitler's evils and they simply begged for law and order. Many read Mein Kamph and knew his sick evil mind but, were scared and wanted a "strong man"    Add to the mix that it took literally a wheel barrow full of worthless Marks to buy bread. People were robbed for their wheel barrow, the worthless cash dumped on the street, some simply burned the cash to stay warm. SCUMBAG Hitler promised law and order, he promised economic prosperity, and he sure delivered it.  Unfortunately for many about 12 Million  innocent people such as Jews, Gypsies, LGBTQ folks and others, law and order meant they be gassed then incinerated in the ovens. It sucks I know, my old man was there, the sights he saw, well you would shit and go blind, let's just leave it at that.!  So I ask, who is the "all knowing God among you" that can identify with 100% accuracy a "real NAZI" Who among you is prepared for a bloodbath once you decide you have the right to punch someone out because you "THINK" he is a nazi.  He "SOUNDS" like a NAZI. Go ahead but also be ready for the PIG COPs to come down hard on everybody as well, which will really insure a blood bath!  So go ahead ignore history, do exactly what happened in the late 1920's which led to Hitler getting ELECTED. Fuck, 1920's hell that's almost 100 years ago, nah that can't happen again, us SJWs, we know it all, we got it all figured out.  So if you SJWs wanna get violent, wanna behave just like the German Communists who battled the NAZI brown shirts, be my guest. When the bloodbath ends, and we do have a real fucking NAZI elected don't piss and bitch that you were not warned! You think Trump is a NAZI? then you fucking insult the memory of every Holocaust Victim because You have no fucking idea what a REAL nazi government is. You have no fucking idea what my old man saw! Trump is just a crude, rude, potty mouth, end of story!!    Anyway I described  what it will degenerate into, you will punch someone out because they said something offensive, you "KNOW" they are a NAZI and that you have a moral imperative to punch them out. But they are not a NAZI and have NO DESIRE to kill anyone NOR will support anyone who want's to kill people. But he made a crude remark about Muslims or Mexicans or whatever, he draws a gun and the blood bath begins. So, none of YOU never said anything crude in your life, is that right?  Now if you never heard nor know what "brown shirts" "black shirts" and SA mean THEN STFU because you don't even know the very basics of NAZIs and Fascists!  This video is fantastic, the person who put it together is extremely gifted and intelligent!    ***Yea I know you SJWs now call Muslims Semites, good move!! Technically you ARE correct, but y'all just do it for the psychological effect, y'all know if I bad mouth Muslims I'm now an Anti-Semite, Nice, Nice piece of psychological mind fucking. Just like when you call people who argue if global warming is man made and object to making that fat pig Al Gore rich cause he cornered the carbon credit market,"Climate DENIERS" LOL, that's so cool, most stupid sheep hear the word denier and now subconsciously associate the person arguing with a HOLOCAUST DENIER. Nice work guys, you SJWs sure know how to turn up the hatred, even when it is a valid argument and the science HAS NOT BEEN settled, you still find a way to intensify the hate. . Too bad us old fucks that been around the street once or twice have fantastic bullshit detectors. I just hope, if you continue to turn up the violence, that you have the stomach to stand tall and take responsibility for when a REAL Hitler, NOT HARMLESS POTTY MOUTH TRUMP,  but a real Hitler gets elected and the ovens get fired up, that blood is on your fucking hands as well as the scumbags who actually are NAZIs.. I also hope you have the stomach and guts for the Blood Bath you will cause because God knows I don't!!!!!  BTW about Trump, I don't love him, they all suck!! Bush, Obama I don't know whose worse, I guess Bush, 9/11 remember that bullshit.  I have a Master's Degree in Mathematical Physics, Do you believe that 9/11 bullshit story? Wanna argue gravity, rates of acceleration, free fall, potential energy on and on do ya  wanna argue with me? Go ahead THEY ALL SUCK , Learn that and you will have come a long way, they all suck, you simply vote for the one that will do the least damage, potty mouth, and all.
"No shut up" >D That is the nicest way to say "shut up".
Is Bruce single? Or poly? <3
And now nazis are killing people in the streets and liberals still turn there backs on us
This is amazing
10:39 You really did it for me. I'm trying to get out of my echo chamber. I was already a  leftist (moral and economic), but I can't say anymore I'm an anti-SJW. Your content really got substance and form, you are not hysterical, you are smart and your funny at the same time.  You can catch more flies with honey than with vinegar and you are sweet as fuck ;D
My grandparents punched nazis with tanks and planes and blockbuster bombs and the M1 rifle. It's a family business I'm ready to continue.
The fact you see even a shred of merit in any argument that promotes violence towards a certain group absolutely invalidates you as an actual liberal. How does it actually need spelling out for you that violence should never be the answer. Real liberals know this.  Richard Spencer is not a Nazi. For fuck's sake. Do some goddamn research and have a little critical thinking.
Contra with lipstick = would probably fuck Contra w/ no lipstick=no thanks What is my sexuality lmao. (I'm a lesbian btw)
Commie X Abigail Cockbane is my OTP
Girl you need to read you some George Jackson  Punching Nazis is necessary. More necessary is building Dual Power (see: Lenin, Mao, and the Panthers derived works on this).   Dual power will be met with force, however. Obama regime organized and orchestrated the violent cracked down on Occupy , remember.   The solution to structural violence, which is fundamentally what fascism is in a pure and distilled form, is to replace the structure. It's revolution. No matter how nonviolent the revolution, it will be met with extreme violence.   So get used to punching nazis, in addition to community gardens and clothing exchanges and mass strikes and occupying farms and factories. We're in it for the long haul.   Important points:  1) fascism isnt an aberration of liberalism. It is its class dictatorship core. Fascism is liberalism without its shallow humanist pretenses   Fascism is the reality for people colonized by liberal and social democracies, and always has been. No one in Iraq, Afghanistan, Syria, Palestine, Haiti, Colombia, Somalia, Libya, Honduras, and on and on gets to vote on what NATO/IMF/WB does to them. If they do, and choose to break from imperialism, they are met with force.  The US exterminated at least 1/5 of North Korea, and would go on to exterminate literally tens of millions more people in the region over the next two decades  You cannot debate a class dictatorship. You smash it. Punching Nazis in the street won't do this, in and of itself.   For that, we must build Dual Power. Doing so will invite violent state repression, however.   Again, read George Jackson. There's a a reason the CIA hired Nazis after WW2.   What the liberal mainstream means when they say "fascism" is "now people I identify with are being treated en masse how the colonial subject has been treated for centuries."   Again, fascism isn't an aberration. It's what happens when foundational principles of liberalism--private ownership of commercial property and the political supremacy of those who do--is threatened.   Genuine democracy is a threat and will always be met with both legalized and extralegal violence regardless of the democratic will of the people. This is true even when democratic movements are not consciousness that they pose ab existential threat to the State. However, remember, if fascism is something colonized people have dealt with for centuries, and colonization is an economic behavior, and de-colonization is met with mass and unrepentant violence, then that means basic democratic movements will always be met with violence, because they are always revolutionary, even if they aren't framed like that  So then the next point  2) violence is necessary to maintain liberal ideology. At no point have social and liberal democratic states refrained from mass incarceration, extrajudicial executions, kangaroo courts, and suppression of dissent when ideology fails to subdue people.   This is why we must build Dual Power, and be prepared to "punch Nazis" when doing so.   White supremacy and patriarchy aren't around because of bad ideas. They are around because they are direly necessary for a liberal economy to work. If you could wave a magic wand and suddenly transform everyone into a perfect egalitarian, within a generation they would fall to racist and sexist explanations for society if they aren't presented with a workable and holistic alternative that can be realized on a day to day basis--an alternative that would be imminently and violently suppressed by both state and para-state actors (like Nazis).   Punching nazis on sight is good work. Better work is building an armed and organized mass democratic movement capable of removing the material basis for fascism: private ownership of commercial property and the production of commodities for sale on a market.
One of the best videos I've seen on the internet, and I don't come from this political landscape
While this video was great. Girl I couldn’t stop looking at the lipstick. The fit was everything, the hair, the makeup, the dress and heels yes girl. It was everything. But anyway, I feel like two people at times kind of like in the video. It’s kind of like I’m battling a conservative version of me and a liberal version.
God you looks freakish
I am an Alt-Right Identitarian primordial Nationalist but this video is very Well Made. It makes me reconsider My views and question My worldview. Even though I haven't changed My mind this is a Good excercise for us to take to strengthen our views
Contrapoints, are you psychic? 'cos this video is so en point after Charlottesville. You're liberal alter ego is right - no-one knows how things are going to play out. No-one expected three people to be dead, and Trump vacillating like a finger in a jar of Vaseline in the aftermath. The question is - how will things play out? Will support for the extreme tendency grow or will this mark their high point, and they lose support? I really don't know.
Violence begets violence. You can debunk our arguments, which should be quite simple judging from your attitude, or we simply have better arguments than you.
This whole video was honestly the "Perceived self vs. real self" meme in the flesh.
"Left-wing violence and right-wing violence seem about the same: bully boys out fighting, it's just the same old game -- boring fucking politics that'll get us ALL shot  Left-wing, right-wing, you can stuff the lot!"  -- Steve Ignorant
twitter dot com
So many layers of irony and satire of both sides. Oh my. I love you, Contra.
are those real pearls
dat tea cupping in the thumbnail tho.
been watching a lot of your vids. and while i consider myself left wing. most of the time i just don't agree with a lot you have to say. but this video i can connect with. to me you mostly come across as the you with the hammer and sickle hat. but every so often you say something i can agree with. much like wee back when ya went under a different channel. i am technically on your "side" but some how i disagree with both ant and feminists equally. with both ant and sjws equally. so it was nice seeing this vid. thank you for this at least.
I feel this dialectic can be summed up quite nicely - "peaceful if possible, violent if necessary".
femme chick and butch chick yelling "white male" at each other
the chick with the hammer seems to be called "bruce" but i really read her as female, but possibly cos she reminds me of a specific young woman i know...  and the young woman i know would defs accuse contra/trixie of appropriating the trans experience
Fuck, this was so good.
ContraPoints  Who are you, and _how did you get inside my head?_
Contrapoints accidentally warned us about Laci Green?
I think there's a sharp difference between "punching people who don't agree with you" and strategically deplatforming fascists. I don't know what I would do in that situation, but antifa is doing more good than harm.
"What of if instead of being silenced, these fascists that you want to punch decide to retaliate..." This video was posted on Jan  29th, 3 months before the Battle of Berkeley and the counter movement of right wing death squads who humiliated Antifa in their own turf, forcing Antifa to abandon violent assaults against Trump supporters. Holy Shit ContraPoints was actually right...
You are both wrong and right. I can tell you with on pretty safe assessment that most of us far right-wingers wouldn't really leave certain racial minorities, queers in general, and especially marxists with their heads un-stomped, so Commie you is right on saying that violence against that sort of discourse is acceptable, because it is. The problem is that Richard Spencer is really not a "nazi" at all, and I can say this as someone who deals with actual nazi-sympathizers on a daily basis: had you guys punched someone like David Duke that would've been fair game, but Dickie never really said anything that hinges on fascism.
I'm with CommieContra. Just fucking smash fascists. Make Nazis afraid.
Why are people calling Trump a fascist? Hes a nationalist capitalist that yes of course got support from white identity movements but I don't think his policies are racist If we had a drug trafficking problem coming from Canada and trump wanted to build a wall you wouldn't call him racist you might disagree but the only reason people are calling him racist is because the people from Mexico have a different skin tone. Trump has proposed making it easier for Mexicans to immigrate legally so theres not really the argument that he doesn't want Mexicans in the country. People have said that he called Mexicans rapists witch is a half truth if you see the whole clip he obviously trying not to generalize. Amnesty International reported in 2010 that as many as 60% of women and girls are sexually assaulted over the course of their journey from Latin America to the USA. Regarding Islamic immigration the 7 countries on the ban list were listed by Obama as national security threats and many of them are partly taken over by terrorist militias and its just a temporary ban till they can figure out how to vet them. Hes definitely a Conservative leaning security buff but to call him a fascist or a racist is going too far.
Antifa = closeted fascism
is it bad that i sympathize more with the radical than with you in this one...
this is the best depiction of both sides of an argument AND the hopeless cyclical nature of that argument that ive ever seen.
This is the conversation I have with myself at 3am on a work night, except you left out the part where I realize I'm nowhere near as interesting, funny or useful as I think I am.
In the spirit of ambiguity you foster, here are the two best memes Twitter has been able to come up with about the punching Nazi thing:  Meme 1: Advocates for the disadvantaged: "Nazis are invalidating my existence."  (punches Nazi)  "This was very helpful. My existence is totally validated now."  Meme 2: >USA drops bombs everywhere it can. Liberals: It is good when we do it because we are fighting dangerous murderous dictators.  >Someone punches a Nazi Liberals: I understand your anger but we don't like violence.
Wow...I love this conversation.
ok girl that's all well and good but where are those egg-crushing shoes from
allright, here is how i "pick" when im o a train and white people want to kill my foreign ass i go with comrade contra, otherwise ill stick with the non violent aproach
man this reminds me of my parents arguing lmao
I can't even describe how much I love this video. I thoroughly appreciate your ability to actively interrogate all of your perspectives, ideas, opinions, and humanity. Even if it is expressed through humor, argumentative banter, and costumed split personality enactments.   Thank you for all of your work. Even if you are a privileged white cis man who identifies as gender queer who gains monetary backing from Patreon.
So this basically boils down to not knowing if debating white nationalists and discrediting them will lead to them remaining at the fringe or them taking over and enacting genocide on minorities. Let me tell you right now: If you ridicule them with debate and evidence you at least have a chance of winning. If you attack them you have zero chance. Zero. Guaranteed. You will create martyrs and that is a sure recipe for emboldening them. Some liberals can start by dropping the Nazi and white nationalist epithet as a catchall term for any minor disagreement.
Point is Richard Spencer is literally not a Nazi..  IF NAZIS WERE STILL AROUND WE'D ALL BE DEAD ALREADY YOU FUCKING IDIOTS
Cut a Liberal and a fascist bleeds.
As someone who's been a bit rightwing leaning in my life due to various factors, it's a breath of fresh air to see such a nuanced examination of two places on the political spectrum. You're writing in the argument brought forth a detailed perspective that certainly can't be obtained from the outside looking in.   I really enjoy your work, please keep it up.
I think that communist is one cringeworthy SJW you perfectly portrayed.
tag yourself im the punk radical commie
The hammer switching was very funny (was going to say "hilarious", but I can't spell it).
Where's the ambiguity here? It's a pot meets kettle video. It's a communist who opines and rants about how fascism is inherently violent and dangerous then claims were need to have a violent communist revolution in order to prevent fascism from coming to fruition.  Cure worse than phantom disease.
It's not natsees, it's NOTSEES!
Here is what you are forgetting. You are condoning violence against people. Your justification is that this was a person talking about genocide so its okay to slug him. Okay, but where does it end? He wasnt hurting anyone. Hes just a racist idiot. He is no threat to anyone But now you are saying its okay to attack people like that. So now, we have a entire class of people removed from the protections of law? Then perhaps we make gulags and reeducation camps for them. Then we have walls, not to keep people out but to keep an imprisoned population in. And we have a population desperate to escape this system And who at the first sign of weakness will break down the walls and the system  and future generations who talk about how horrible that time was
Why do classical liberals support conservatives?    Because they are ideologically in line.  It is you fuckwits that are shitting on all the classical liberal values.
Why do you wear a dress? You're a man.
Very nice.
I find it funny that the COMMUNIST is bitching about someone who may or may not support mass murder.
Tsk, how dare you put up an ambiguous video and expect people to reflect and form their own opinion? Don't you know what Youtube is for!   Oh, and by the way I love and adore you and I never want you to leave me.
This or one of your gender videos is my favourite.
Great video!
white people...
the revolution cannot be framed in terms of justice, but in terms of war. political violence against fascism is necessary.
too real
I feel I'm 80% the angry punk and 20% the liberal bourgeois and I understand that neither the angry commie or the liberal bourgeois are 100% the solution to fascism and the far right but I'm also aware I'm a bit too emotional when it comes to these topics which is why I lean more towards the angry punk haha and then comes the existential nihilism which just says "fuck this shit" to all of this as a kind of half-assed coping mechanism when I don't see any solutions to any of this and have to deal with the subsequent bullshit daily
In what way is a sickle and hammer any more morally appropriate than a swastika? If you're ambiguous about attacking the one, then why not the other?
I personally think the best tactic at the moment is just to poke all the Nazis. The important thing is to disrupt their image of being resilient/strong/representative of ""Americans," so just having a white cis heteronormative male poking them in the face on camera and watching them react in any way that isn't perfectly dignified would have many of the positive effects punching Spencer has had, without the possibility of the incidents' use as evidence of "the inherent violence of the Left." Plus if the nazi reacts with violence you can take out all your pent-up rage on him in self-defense, which would be fun. #PokeANaziToday
holy fucking shit this is genius
Why do you instantly dismiss a feeling because of your adapted political views tells you to do so? Why not ponder the feeling and make a logical decision whether your feeling about "this is politically correct bullshit" is false or if it actually has some reason to it? I mean, I'm guessing you do, but when you look at the world and the way it is today, and how people on left are defending things the way they do, how can you just say that your feeling is wrong? Why go full lefty, or even strive to be so? Why not make up your own mind instead of feeling some guilt about being white? I suppose I am assuming the last part, but that is the feeling I got from your unwillingness to decide that things today are politically correct bullshit.
YOU FUCKING MADE ME THINK THAT I GOT A SKYPE CALL YOU FUCK I NEARLY SHAT MY PANTS
You know what, this video is so alarmingly spot on with my own beliefs. You have portrayed the uncomfortable position that rational people on the left-wing side have when it comes to issues like this. I really love the way you so eagerly confronted your own viewpoints with convincing arguments from the counter side. Thank you for making this video, it's absolutely brilliant.
I think this vid made you my favorite youtuber
completely off topic but those legs!
God this video confused the shit out of me, i nodded at every point, and I still have no idea how i feel, thanks strange internet person
whatever is good for revolution is moral - lelnin
what the fuck am I watching
I found this channel through Vernaculis. You bring up a lot of interesting points and I really like your style. You're very funny. I've been binge watching your stuff and I eagerly await more. We don't see eye to eye on everything but you have made me question some of my own beliefs. I like that your stuff can be informative and snarky without being overly vitriolic.  A lot of solid food for thought.
How have I not heard about this channel since now?
Choosing between fascism and communism is akin to preferring either bubonic or pneumonic plague. Also, not for nothing, communism has the far higher body count to date. I'm subbing to listen to what you have to say as you are a cut above the idiocy the regressive left typically offers up though, let us be frank, that's not a very high bar.
"A revolution without a prior reformation would collapse or become a totalitarian tyranny... Those who, for whatever combination of reasons, encourage the opposite of reformation, become the unwitting allies of the far political right. Parts of the far left have gone so far in the political circle that they are now all but indistinguishable from the extreme right." ----Saul Alinsky
So I have officially binged watched your entire library, including the mirror on other channels!   You should totes do a video explaining that disliking religion and blaming religion for terrorism isn't the same or some shit like that. Like you can disagree with Islam AND agree that ISIS is NOT representative of Islam and shit. Like religion is stupid but humans are dumber or something. I am not as smart as you so I can't fancy up my verbiage and shiznits!
Contra's videos are so satisfyingly brilliant that it's a little overwhelming. The highly advanced nuance is just way too much.
this an accurate depiction of internet discourse
This was an incredibly engaging debate between you and...you
This is actually a really clever video. I have these kinda internal debates with myself all the time. Maybe I'll make one.
This is actually a really clever video. I have these kinda internal debates with myself all the time. Maybe I'll make one.
You look hot in the Antifa gear lol
Fascism is the Sharia Law of Western right wing societies. I'd hope that most of us can tell the difference between your average Muslim and an actual Islamic extremist just like we can tell the difference between your average right leaning white guy and an actual fascist.   I get the feeling that if the man being punched were brown, dressed in a turban and beard and wrote articles about how the west and non-believers should die rather than suit -and-tied Richard Spencer, a lot of the detractors of this event would be a lot more okay with it.  And you know, I'm okay with that Sharia law guy getting punched too just the same as I'm okay with Spencer being punched. I'm okay with any of those crazy racists who think white people are some kind of plague being punched (btw I'm a black man and if a black person days white people should all die they're racist and crazy).  Do you see the throughline here? I don't want people who disagree with me or THE LEFT to be punched. I don't want Sargon or JonTron's crusty asses to be punched. But I do think that aggressors, the people who think that innocent human beings should die, kinda need to be punched.
Both points were very good. I don't know who won. I can see you have internally debated this.
This is making my head hurt
13:39 How to kill with styyyyyle
Speaking as a white cishet male commie scum who's totally OK with nazis getting punched in the face, I loved the bit about people sometimes having unironic right-wing feelings; I'm kind of ashamed to admit it, I sometimes have those feelings as well. The problem is that fascists know how to play into this "subconscious appeal"...
commiepoints is Good and Important
This was.....THE BEST.
So.. I take it that was a reenactment of WWII immediately following Operation Barbarossa? BRILLIANT! I still think the Nazi uniforms were bad ass, although Stalin did kill more people.  So, it's a 'wash' then?
"They might not kill you as soon as the jews and the blacks, but when the fascist scum take over they will come for you" Because I think we all know that Marxist revolution have NEVER ended with the bougies up against the wall.
i forgot the golf bit
This video is still a masterpiece
We may have differing opinions on feminism, but I've got to say that I love your content nonetheless.
I don't understand the violence vs use arguments dichotomy. Why can't we punch nazis AND explode their bullshit arguments? These are just different tactics for different cases.  Some liberals want to pretend that we can have some kind of fixed moral doctrine regarding the use of violence, but it's just not that simple. Decisions are always going to have to be made according to the context of the situation.
all honesty forward, you remind me of Kevin from the movie split
On the one hand: Fuck Nazis, on the other: it doesn't look good, even if they deserve it
Ehh... I'm kinda split here.
"mass consumption?!" XD
If Antifa wants to punch Nazis, then they label all Republicans or everyone they disagree with as 'Nazis' ...they are going to get their asses handed to them when good 'ol hard working patriots stop putting up with their hissy-fits and start throwing fists.
I'm weirdly attracted to you and i don't know why...
Kind of impressed with the straw argument to argument ratio, there.  Here's one thing I haven't heard ANYONE mention in the #PunchANazi debate: Punch a nazi -> get charged with assault. It's that simple.  Some people might be willing to pay that price. Some people on the jury of peers might be equally invested in the idea and hang the jury. Jail/fine or no, a nazi got punched. The amount of people who thought he was worthy of pity was infinitesimally small. A debate happened. Is that such a bad thing?  Indulge your impulse and the law/society will judge you. Aaaaannd if you're white, you have a much greater chance to get off the hook scott free...  Long arc of history!  Also, I wonder if we might someday reexamine the relation between hate speech and the "fire" in crowded theatre argument, especially since Trump's brownshirts are running around setting muslims on fire and murdering them? I mean, it might be worth a look?
The whole golf skit was just brilliant. Also rock those heels!
it's pretty curious and facinating to me how the north American left have a lot of differences with the left here. I mean, here in Chile the "radical left" have a lot of sense of humour, and is pretty side-by- side with the proletarian. I mean, compared to the left in the states, fuck, here we look like funny guys with a pretty dark humor and a necessity to destroy burger Kings and banks. is exagereted, but you see the point.
It's a sign of intelligence to be able to argue against yourself that effectively
It's a sticky question.Whilst watching this I actually felt for my claw hammer, which was where it should be, within arms reach, and that is very confronting for someone who considers the use of force to be a sign of intellectual weakness. If you intend on decking someone, you must first ask them to remove their glasses. That is chivalry.
Now that I think about it, you also failed to address a post-structural interpretation of the concept of reciprocity.  I suspect that if you examine reciprocity closely, you will find that it only makes sense within a very narrow definition, and that this definition will also rely on a similarly narrow definition of what constitutes violence.  You may have also assumed that your anarchistic character was unable to place the concept of "fascism" into a longer historical context than the 20th century.  Some proponents of this viewpoint (and I am not claiming to be one) see fascism as a temporal state that occurs within imperial cycles, rather than a memetic virus that can be rooted out.  Coming from such a vantage point, one might then apply accelerationist rhetoric to arrive at a very different justification for action similar to the punching of Richard Spencer.
Loved this vid.  There was one argument you failed to address though.  Accelerationism.
why am i so attracted to you in antifa gear... but then also in your cabaret/frank n furter/ lady of the reich get-up too?? oh the woes of bisexuality
This vid is perfection
This is such undialetical trash.
I love the ambiguous style of this video.
Nice video. This is an interesting representation of the contradictory voices we all sometimes get in our head, or at least the voices that we should get if we are thinking properly! The inner dialogue to attempt to come to some form of truth.   My thoughts. Perhaps violence against so-called fascists can in certain circumstances be necessary, but as we've seen recently.. throwing M-80s, pepper spraying and beating on people who simply want to hear someone talk, or who are simply attending a free speech event, without even knowing their views, is reprehensible. Antifa claim they are fighting against fascist promotion and enabling of violence yet they are the ones instigating violence at these otherwise peaceful events, justifying it by labelling people Nazis even when they really, really aren't. The more they do this the less meaning the word Nazi will have, and the more violence will be enacted upon people who actually don't deserve it. So yeah, I lean towards the liberal side, while also acknowledging that yes, there are circumstances when it may be necessary to use violence on anyone who is themselves using force on others, and we shouldn't passively allow that, but things seem to be heading down a very slippery slope since that Richard Spencer video went viral. What we need more now than ever is dialogue between the opposing sides of the political spectrum and labelling people as the other and proceeding to beat down on them is only going to make matters worse.
"you neurotypical" WHAT??
Your side wants control, while my side wants less control.
Put on some clothes you disgusting excuse for a male.
Believe me you don't have *any* masculinity to invade anyone's space with, you simpering hyper-verbal pseudo-intellect.
Looked a lot like someone acting out an arguement between r/socialism and r/FULLCOMMUNISM
as someone who hates labels I think the English language is a prison.. divides more than explains in my perception obviously.. I don't really agree with everthing you personally believe in and. speak about.. though I love how articulate and objective you are about the topics and humorous.. I love your channel and I think you help a lot of people more than you know.. if you're in the Chicago area you should do a meet up it would be nice to be around intelligent,interesting homo sapiens.. regardless love the channel so much BTW you're gorge ❤💋
MotherFUCK! It's unbelievably loud to fire a gun in a small room!  It also get's bloody bullets in your furniture.
11:24 that little speil commie-beanie you goes into is precisely what I think is interesting about "SJW-ism" (quotes for lack of better phrase)--in that the precise reason why they can exist as groups is because the oppressive majority (or what they seem to think is the oppressive majority) are open to reasoned debate. If they acted in the violent, discourse-denying manner that beanie-you advocates the "left" act, the "SJW's" simply wouldn't stand a chance--not with the government, tanks, hanging-grounds etc. etc. in play. Very good and illuminative video on both sides.
Of course communists are crossdressing poofters
It's not okay to punch anyone.
The punk commie reminds me so much of some famous person, presumably an actor, who I cannot seem to place for the life of me, but nonetheless it's strangely attractive.
Cut "nazi". Paste "fundamentalist Muslim". Does the logic for violence hold?
It's like the voices in my head
Hey, you're pretty funny. You just suck in live debates. I think you have some good points on some things, but you're wrong about feminism. Consider watching/debating Karen Straughn. I'm sure she'd be happy to debate you.
As a small 'l' libertarian I found this both damned funny and illuminating. Thanks.
I felt like I was on 'leftbook'
Sorry, still on the bourgeois side :D Got too big a dose of communism in the motherland, fuck neo communist leftists, that shit hasn't worked for a reason
I grapple with this dilemma myself.  In my younger years, I self-identified as an anarchist/antifascist but have since moved more center.  One part of me would like to see these crytpo-fascists opposed by any means necessary, but the other side of me hates this vigilantism that people are taking part in.  If we all took it upon ourselves to punch people we think may have abhorrent and hateful ideas, this world would become a pretty ugly place.  In the end, my views on the subject can be summed up with your statement: "Politics is based upon a norm of reciprocity, which means I treat my opponents the way I expect them to treat me."    BTW, congrats on 21K!
I'm not ashamed to admit that that clip is very satisfying to me. I'm also not afraid to admit that the fact that it exists is probably a bad thing.
lol the comment about Trotsky and Luxembourg was REALLY accurate
I think what is really important to say is: There is a huge difference between "Nazis DESERVE to be punched bc they're bad." and "Violence is necessairy in certain context to stop Nazis from spreading their hate bc their hate speech will result in more violence.". I, for the most part, have heard the latter more often than the former from peeps on the radical left, but there's also a substantial number of peeps that believe the former. There's of course often a mix of both and/or a great deal of interpretation possible on when violence is "necessairy".  In my opinion, this differentiation is very important, since one of them can actually be in accordance with a form of free speech and a peaceful society and the other is anger and hate put into words and actions, and, even though they might be justified as emotions, acting upon them is not. Using violence as a means to an end or calling it justified in and of it itself against certain people is a huge fucking difference.  Fascist hate speech is a latent form of violence. Using violence to prevent more violence is usually considered valid if all other means of stopping the former violence have failed or can be expected to fail. Punching Richard Spencer is a difficult one since there probably were other ways of getting him to stop talking there, but on the other hand, it has probably made him more scared to go out into the street.
He's not even a Nazi...
This could be made into a play of some sort. That would be great.  More on topic: I'm against punching anyone without due process. At least for the time being. The argument I use myself, that you also touched on in the video, is that most people who may be seduced by fascist ideas are not beyond saving. If we resort to violence, we're just giving the real, hardcore fascists an easy way of painting the left as villainous and their side as right.  If things get significantly worse then, yeah, sure, I think violence could be considered the only viable solution. But we're not there yet by a loooooong shot.
Wow. Both sides presented some great points but boujee cross dresser won.
8:33 is that fucking painted face by breach?
Natty Boh!  Are you a citizen of *ahem* "Charm City?"
You look cute with eyeliner. just sayin
...  Like "Thor's Hammer"?
It's out of sync (on the pearl wearing you).
Punching random people on the street is wrong, its better to debate Richard Spencer than to make yourself look like a violent idiot and pretty much end up making Richard Spencer look like the good guy.
Complex discussion! Nothing is black and white and this video pulled some of my heart strings.  I don't blame the guy for punching a nazi.  I can accept it is illegal, and wrong to strike a person, and would never want it to come down to people murdering others for being vocal of their opinions.  But I don't think we can live in a vacuum and assume that someone talking about murdering people for their colour/race/religion is comparable to someone talking about wanting to have equal rights.  I guess the line is physical violence.  Crossing that line means contradicting your own objectives for everyone to have the rights to speak their mind, and yet we can't ignore the political climate that we have going for ourselves either recently.  Because neo nazi's have a platform to discuss hate speech we have more people who already agree with them feel encouraged to act out towards those that don't agree.  We all know that our actions have consequences, it's why we would put someone in jail for physically attacking someone else, but sometimes I think we ignore that words have consequences too, and are powerful tools that can harm or help people when words turn into action. In other parts of the world, we have laws that state hate speech, death threats, etc are liable to get you in some trouble depending on the circumstance. I'm Canadian, and I think we have laws regarding that too. American law though kinda shirks all responsibility of those that speak their mind, especially if it invokes violence towards other groups.  So essentially my internal dialogue: So a Nazi got punched, you okay with it? Sure! Should they get in trouble for it? Yup, law is law! Was it worth it? Very complex to say, so yes and no!  Would you punch a nazi? Nope, but mostly because I have hope there are other options that will deny nazi's the ability to make another genocide attempt. Do you think you're naive based on how history has shown what could happen? Oh god I hope I'm not. I really hope not.   Eh. very grey topic.
I agree.
nazi u is better
Your videos are fucking hilarious and on point. I needed to see someone like you make someone like this for the longest time. It's a breath of fresh air. I want to work with you at some point. That would be my privilege. Oooh!
Only punch nazis when no one is filming it.
the biggest takeaway from this video for me is that we need to talk to people who are on the fence about the alt right. we may not convince the golden one or that guy with the skull, but we can convince young impressionable minds that fascism is wrong, and give them a better alternative without resorting to violence. violence always escalates the situation
Antifa are thew ones punching Nazis, right? Well, aren't Antifa Communists? Aren't communists responsible for way more death and suffering than Nazis in the past century? Since it's ok to punch even weak and pitiful Nazis like Richard Spencer who have no chance of seeing political success in his lifetime because "why wait until Nazis ARE powerful enough to do something", shall we punch Communists because "why wait until they start sending people to gulags?"
I'd love to see a crossdressing Siegfried at Bayreuth :D
Right-winger here, you did pretty well.. this time.
But I love my Commy Marxist reading club ContraPoint.........
Me too commy!
What do you think about Nazism being considered hate speech? Advocating for genocide definitely goes within those bounds.
I mean as a commie myself, I don't feel like the punk radical really said anything that I would say in an argument. The whole thing isn't even about privilege and there's an assumption we're talking within the confines of a shared desire to uphold the West's Locke-derived liberalism. Privilege theory didn't even come about till about the 80s and what we're actually coming from is Marxist dialectic, Kropotkin if you're anarchist, (sometimes modifications of Hegel sorryyyyyyy), etc. EDIT: I hadn't gotten to the part of the video where you snark on us for that LMAO and yes, that's a valid thing to say that a lot of leftists do that and it's seriously bad praxis, the whole "champagne socialist" thing. But there's definitely a lot of leftists not doing just that and actually organizing communities into resistance. People just don't hear about it because they really don't know where to look to see it (hint: not ABC News). I'd give you some idea of where to look myself but I'm somewhat still new to the scene and mostly get that sort of news from friends. I guess one place you could look is the Kurdish resistance happening in Syria, I hear there are a lot of Western leftists who are volunteering there Spanish Civil War style. If I can find other ones I'll see if I can remember to link it.   I'd explain more but I'm typing this comment while procrastinating on studying for finals so maybe if anyone wants to talk about it I'll come back or whatever idk I'm really tired and my friends do this thing better than me lol  Oh, and we're not radical liberals. To us liberal = Classical Liberal = capitalist, clearing that up just in case.
The are you real punk... looks like your mom dropped you off at green day concert.
Bashing works well.  Rhetoric and good trolling can be effective as well
I can't see a non violent demonstrator, however stupid, get sucker punched and rejoice about it.
Damn fine job on this. Both arguments really made me think, funny as hell to.
"Are you even a real punk? You look like your mom dropped you off at a Green Day concert in 2003."  I got whiplash.
Instead of asking whether or not punching Nazis is morally right or wrong, why not ask whether or not it's an effective means to achieve your goals?
Point 1: As far as iam concerned there is to much Black and White thinking in this debate. I mean, i dont want to punch everybody and punching some one doesnt mean that i would considere to kill those people. I just want to stop them from spreading hate. That doesnt mean i want to kill them, sometimes it just means to block a march. They dont do marches to get debated, they just want to spread their ideas and i just simply dont want them to. I just dont want them to be able to question the worth of other peoples live.   Point 2: The Problem with debating and debunking fascists is simply,that u dont measure the time limit. Yes, u have a time limit!  TV-Shows dont last forever,so u are able to completly role out your whole arguments and can get to every fuckin point they make! And they know this really well! They just come up with a bunch of their wrong but simple solutions for very complexe problems and get you to debunk them the whole fuckin rest of the show and u just have no chance,because they interrupt u constantly and bring up other aspects to keep u from making your actual point! Suddenly, some how, the hour of the tv-show is over and u just didnt even had the half of your explenation out of your mouth. That's what's happening.  Point 3: A huge amount of people is simply so busy getting their lifes done in capitalism that they simply dont have the time to make a lot of researches and to give both sides a shot. They just watch the surface of both and then they stick with the one that fits them. I can understand that. After 12 hour shifts as a nurse u just dont want anybody to tell you about your privilege! It might be that the life the ghettos detroit are harder then your life, but this just dont washes away the pain in your feet from runing all over the ward and keeping every one alive! Suffering is really subjektiv and that is what fascists are counting on.  Point 4: We have to target the high rate of anti-communism and anti-anarchism opinions in our societies! In germany we have this tendency to always think that both sides are equally bad without any data supporting it! The left commites less crimes but gets higher punishment for it and there are still people who start shouting:"But what about the left?" when anybody mentions the rising rate of fascist hate crimes. They have litteraly the nerve to come up with the few burning cars in frankfurt while there are 2000 attacks against refugee asylums.   Point 5: Why dont  give violence a try? :D Last time, as hitler was rising, we tried the debating thing! They tried to debunk him and to delusion the people about him by letting him be the Reichskanzler! Remember: He was only the second stronges party in the parlament back then! They just gave him the position of the reichskanzler to keep him satisfied and mysteriously disentchant him with the hard work of a "real" politician. But, as u all now, it didnt work. So why dont just keep nazis out of the debates, blocking their marches and just dont let them have any chance to mesmerize the people? If it doesnt work, maybe your way will work in the future. I mean, it is not like fascists are violent in any way and gone put u in any camps, dont they?! ^^
Humorous? But the kulaks deserved it
i side with the radical punk  nazis won't repay the favor, they won't respect your freedom and liberties when they get their platform
Entryism is part of the issue with debating fascists. When you allow them into your group/discussion then not only do you normalise the discussion of race struggle, but you advertise your presence to other fascists. Eventually groups can become subsumed by fascists and form sectarian divides within communities. This happened to San Francisco anarchists, primitivists, the punk movement etc. When you don't react, they burrow in, either through conscious or unconscious efforts. The punk scene got clean of its Nazi problem (real punks correct me if I'm wrong) by beating them senseless, the metal community though? Plenty of fash, or at least plenty of bigots.
Trying to debate fascists is like pulling crocodile teeth without anaesthetic and also the crocodile is a racist.
Hey why do you want to go out on dates with yourself?
Waitwaitwaitwaitwaitwait.  Who is this David individual and why is his title a somewhat overt version of the oxymoron that my username initially attempted and failed to be?
'bourgeois contrapoints' matched my opinions and worries uncannily, like my own brain was dressed up in drag yelling at me. kinda scary.
One of the best YT videos I've seen.
I have this same argument in my head every day, except it's between Elphaba Thropp and Rose Quartz. Mine is better; mine has singing. Although I see with yours, you decided to put more emphasis on accessibility rather than musicality. You put the scenario in the format of a sketch video so that it would be viewable to people _not inside your own head_. It's not exactly the stylistic choice I would have gone with, but to each their own.
My biggest problem with the far left is that they never seem to be open to discussion, I'm glad you're not like that. If my ideas are really that stupid they should be easily debunked. They have been before and I've changed my mind because of it. Even if I'm not convinced I can at least gain a better understanding of different perspectives just by having a calm and collected discussion about it.
So glad to know there are others out there who have hour-long arguments with themselves in the shower.
Well I guess I'm part of the liberal bourgeois so I'm pretty much agreed with every point the crossdressing you said
It takes a tremendous amount of intellectual honesty and acting chops to represent both sides of this subject without building all kinds of straw men. Commie Contra really sounds exactly like my far left friends, and crossdressing Contra really sounds like me and my stance. You're a hidden gem on YouTube dude, keep doing what you're doing.
this shows both sides so well im worries about your mind...
Nice heels
Holy shit. A genuine representation of two opposing perspectives in this medium (and also pretty fitting given the channel name.) I'd love to see more stuff like this.
Great video!
Something that I have seen people miss is that punching Nazis have only been a thing two times (Spencer got punched by a women in the same day) and most of the people saying #punchanazi, #punchafascist, whatever hashtag, are not actually going to get out and punch anyone. Just like no one is going to get out of their way to kill all men, white people or cis people. They are mostly jokes on the internet and you can be offended by it, as someone that happens to be one or all of those things, but that still doesn´t mean your life is in any danger. Is not the same case for trans people or black people. Even if no one made any joke about it, that really doesn´t mean much if they still get hurt. Jokes about it just don´t help either.  I would never actually go physically against someone in real life because I have no training, no that much muscle and I would probably just get my ass kicked, but I am going to laugh at nazis getting punched, I am going to share the meme and I am sure the big majority of people are going to do that. Just try to tell me how many attack terrorist have been actually against nazis and compare that with the threats and actual killing perpretrated by white nationalists.
PUNCH YOUR LOCAL NAZI
My daily internal dialogue annotated and typified.
Funny how the "communist" is only spewing idpol bullshit
This was a good concept to talk about. I struggled with the Spencer getting punched video for a while. I've realized, with help from this video, that my struggles come from this ideal in my mind that I don't want people to get hurt. Nobody, ever. And it just isn't possible. The world is not sunshine and rainbows, that's obvious, but it is difficult to implant that deep into my subconscious. It seems there will always be a part of me that hopes at some point we can all just get along. I hold hope that there is one thing that everybody can get behind. The hope might be baseless, but there is something in me that keeps that voice alive. As if as long as I abide by that voice that I'll feel okay.  Kind of lost track of myself in this comment, but I feel better having said it so I'll keep it. Much love to all who read it, and thank you ContraPoints (Just found you tonight don't know your name, or if you even go by it.)
I know exactly what we should do. We should all quietly agree to pretend that we didn’t see the Nazi get punched. If you have kids, and I do, you know that rules and boundaries are important. But you also recognize that your children are complex and vulnerable creatures with tender feelings and burning passions and limits to their self-control, just like the rest of us. So, when my children are having a bad day, are emotionally invested in an outcome, or are about to break a rule in such a way that they are inadvertently doing something good (reading in bed past bedtime—I’m just so glad you’re reading!), I don’t give my children a pass. I don’t tell them that it’s okay just this once that they broke a rule because then the rule of law would break down in my house and they would never quietly go to bed on time ever again! But I can, under some limited special circumstances, pretend I didn’t see that thing they did that broke the rules. That’s what we have to do. We have to pretend that we didn’t see the man do the thing that breaks the rules but that we all secretly wish we could do. By the way, this is my favorite video that you’ve made. I am a liberal democrat living in rural Kentucky. People in my family voted for Trump. I can’t hate them. I’m related to them. The right and the left (and the left and the left) have to find ways to talk to each other (and ways to politely look away). So, I appreciate your attitude Contrapoints.
I think its odd the way you frame the guy in the USSR hat as valiantly trying to prevent genocide......Fascism has always been a REACTION to Marxism....when Hitler came to power the USSR had already been in power for decades and had killed MILLIONS of people!!! Then after defeating Hitler communists went on to kill many more MILLIONS of people.....  Its obvious that Hitler could not have come into power without I giant red political leviathan committing untold horrors in Russia and spreading into eastern Europe....
One way the far right can rise is a disfunctional left. Happened in Hungary. Our left is a mess and is not in position to get elected.  However the far-right has the chance to take over the right wing's massively corrupt regime. I meet and talk to supporters of them everyday. If they figure out we aren't of the same mindset they dismiss anything I have to say. I'm sure some can be convinced, but I have not met them yet. It's important for the left to talk to each other and stay organized. Don't let what happenes here happen to you.
Jesus. This video sounds like the inside of my own head! Shit got real, real fast!
It's like watching baphomet masturbate
The question is ultimately how and if pacifist can fight fascist of varying strengths. The current status quo has fascists in the fringe. That same question has been asked about the place pacifism had during Hitler and ... I don't really know. How do pacifists counter fascism?  If pacifism can't effectively counter fascism, when do you start using violence to subdue fascism? And doesn't using violence itself to subdue fascist make you fascist? Isn't it fair to say that fascism isn't the root cause but a symptom?  I think there is a peaceful solution under most cases where fascist don't comprise a substantial minority or outright majority. Else, the most inclusive fascists are probably best and they must attain power to oppress the exclusive fascists whilst dealing with the root cause, the solution never being extermination.
"Your Honor, if it pleases the court, I refer to the case of Talk Shit v. Get Hit."  That's MY stance on Punching Nazis, a proud American tradition since March of 1941 when the titular character of "Captain America #1" was first depicted busting Hitler in the mush. It's pretty simple... you start advocating the treatment of folks as subhuman monsters fit only for eradication in the name of some bullshit racial or ideological purity, I will consider that a threat and I will make your world a noisy and dangerous place until you aren't a threat anymore.  "Talk Shit, Get Hit." Too many right-wing knuckleheads think "Free Speech" means they can Talk Shit without Getting Hit.
[someone that you could call a] Nazi here.  I approve of this video. Honestly I don't *want* it to come to ... the worst. But the best way to avoid FULL FASCISM, imo, is to open up some sort of dialogue.  The demands of the right can be somewhat reasonable. The idea is that they think there is NO WAY any nonwhite will ever listen to them because of slavery/colonialism etc etc, so they get expelled from a lot of political platforms based on whiteness alone.  The logical conclusion that some reach is that the only way for white people to reclaim their own destiny is to actually remove these nonwhite people, and then a eureka moment hits - holy shit Hitler was right!
I think it boils down to "do you want to hurt the Nazi or Nazism?" I wouldn't blame someone who feels attacked by a Nazi's rhetoric to want to hurt him; to stop trying to pretend emotions don't exist or that they should be taken out of the equation is one of the lessons the fail of modernism has taught us. However, it's important to realize two things. First, the Nazi also acts on that same gut feeling, so maybe you can use that experience to talk to that person in terms they can understand. Secondly, hurting a single Nazi does not do anything for the greater cause, it does not hurt and it may even help their rhetoric. With that in mind, knowing it's purely egotistical, if you still feel it's worth punching a Nazi, I can say you're not helping fight their ideology but I can't personally judge you (I understand that humans may act differently when they feel endangered and I don't feel that way; that's the only way my cis white male-ness intervenes, as far as I can see).
I see that everyone is struggling to put this into words. Literally... I'm getting a LOT of "Ummm, well I feel violence is wrong, but I don't feel bad." It's not good enough to leave it at that. It just leaves me feeling like "Whatever..." So I will try to explain "when" the best I can. Let's break it down and build it up:  Someone says they are a nazi. -Do you punch them? No. The valid response in this situation is replying with a laugh or telling them to fuck off. Whatever you feel based on their tone. You either continue to do your business or walk away holding your phone by your side.  This person now starts spouting serious nazi shit. -Do you punch them? No. Refer to above, but now you record and/or you hold a weapon ready to draw if they follow.  This person amasses a crowd, an audience. -Do you punch them? Depends. If they are just talk, record it and let people see who to watch out for in public. If this crowd is agreeing and is starting to intimidate people walking around and/or plan some shit. See kiddos, this is what we call consequences. If you think domestic terrorism(To definition.) from intimidation to the extremes (That you are probably thinking of writing because you don't consider intimidation terrorism.) is free speech then you are mistaken. Your words have power and consequences What words are worthy of a punch though? What is and isn't considered terrorism if people says it's ok to punch nais blah blah blah... -Well, I go through life thinking "Does this violate my or other's rights and autonomy somewhere down the line?" and respond accordingly.  If I simply say "I like cake." That is innocent, whats so fucking wrong? Well, maybe I said it to manipulate my aunt's purchase over her daughter's choice- being the birthday girl,- wanting cookies I guess... That's an innocent less complex example, but yeah. Here is another one, but a little more complex requiring you to think about individuals; I want to eat PB&J in a school. There are signs everywhere saying no PB sandwiches or peanut products. I think "I will clean up.", but that is personal, I remember. I cannot vouch for the other students who are by the hundreds... Is it better to say no PB, allow it completely or do we work so hard to keep people safe by dogging on students to CLEAN UP by locking them in the cafeteria till all tables are clean? Depends on whats best for your school. My schools was 10% assholes so there was really no trouble spotting them and forcing them to clean the table. If you're thinking "Well, that's some clear logic. Things aren't so straight forward. I need to think a biiit deeper." You're on the right track. If you're still confused and can't tell me when it is ok to punch a nazi STILL well, I don't blame you. This all makes sense to me.:/ (I'm not perfect, drag me and I'll respond, laugh my ass off or both because I just finished some courses, I respond when i'm fucking bored and people will literally choose a shock over boredom for an indeterminate amount of time....)
"You can do many things with a bayonet, except sit on it."
There is no excuse for political violence towards people you disagree with, because that undermines the very foundation of democracy, which these liberal "progressives" claim to defend. Democracy is based upon the exchange of ideas, but if you are going to be physically silenced because of your ideas (i.e. progressives and the black bloc punching Richard Spencer) guess what you dumbfucks, you're no better than the fucking fascists and nazis themselves, who killed and silenced their political adversaries. How fucking blind are you guys if you can't understand this?  He who fights with monsters should look to it that he himself does not become a monster. And if you gaze long into an abyss, the abyss also gazes into you. -Friedrich Nietzsche  You dumb fucking idiots...
7:30 would that be tainted by "original sin"? I think this might be part of the reason why so many other leftists find the far left view repulsive CP. But hey that's just me right? I would also note that when it comes to talk of having a 'fascist heart' I would say political correctness, especially when it's applied legally, is closer to fascism then say classical liberalism or centrism, by virtue of being authoritarian.
My position is that as soon as one uses physical violence against someone who is only using words (even if they're irrational and extreme) one loses the argument at least from a social perspective. You also make your opponent look like a victim and that is the worst thing one can do (besides from killing them) especially when it comes to something like Nazism.  I also can't help but observe the irony of trying to justify violence (as some here are doing) against an ideology (Nazism) that historically has used violence and intimidation to get its way *precisely* because it is an irrational ideology. By the same reasoning I tend to think that anyone who has an ideology that compels them to use violence against words also has an irrational ideology or at least they appear to have one. By *that same* standard therefore violence is then justified against *them* and so on. See where this leads? To justify this is to take us down a bad path.   Also note that it doesn't not matter by this standard of justification whether or not your ideology is actually extreme. It only has to be perceived that way (not that I'm saying Nazism is not extreme but you get the idea).   The situation at hand with R. Spencer and pretty much all the situations to do with Nazis that we are likely to meet in a rich western democracy in the future do not justify physical violence as long as one's opponents is using words. If a Nazi uses violence?- go ahead use violence back (In proportion). Words?No. Note that this is not a 'bourgeois' opinion (whatever that means). It is the rational position that has a sustainable future of maintaining an environment open to free debate. And unlike Kat Blaque would have you believe, Nazism is a position that can be debated, and defeated, like ANY other position. A position doesn't need to have merit in order to be refuted.  P.S: Also I would go so far as to say that Herschel Grynzspan, the Jew who assassinated a Nazi official in 1938, was in the wrong. Why?  Because his action was the pretext on which the Nazis justified 'Kristallnacht" an anti-Jewish pogrom! His violence lead to worse consequences and created more problems then it solved. So if violence may not be justified even in that situation, how is it justified in a society where the Nazis aren't even in power?
Really fucking awesome. I'd be the Punk Contrapoints in this debate but what Crossdress Contrapoints had to say really opened my mind, some really good points were made here.
I know this might be uncomfortable but can you do a video debunking race and intelligence.
Multi-culturalism is a cancer and must be purged
Nazis want a justification to be violent in return. They want to drag you down to their level. Also, who decides who is a nazi at this point? Richard Spencer denies being one, but obviously is one, I've seen other people labelled as nazis, including trump, who obviously aren't. Endorsing political violence is an endorsement of violence against anyone you dislike. Requiring the label of "nazi" is ultimately a meaningless blast of hot air from your face that will control nothing about who is getting hurt.
Suggested by mr.plum. Used to be a subscriber before you disappeared and changed your fashion. The videos of the berkely riots are evidence as to why punching nazis is wrong. The rioters were calling everyone a nazi. Probably more than half of your subs would label me a nazi just for subbing to sargon... and a misogynist, and a transphobe, and a homophobe and whatever other phobe they can think of.
One of the things I got out of this is to not make the other side the victim when they aren't.  Don't get me wrong...Nazis and anti sjws make me so angry and I have thought things that made me question my sanity, but there were times I decided to endure the best I can and not make the other side the victim...And it worked out. It was difficult, yes, but it worked out.
holy shit this is high quality
A little late to the party, but I want to share this ted talk by a researcher who looked into how violent and non-violent resistance movements have historically played out against oppressive nondemocratic regimes. It's my go-to on the subject: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YJSehRlU34w
I'd actually say that, yes... the point where there is actually evidence that these supposed fascists start actually producing evidence that they are agressive against others actively is when you have a moral justification in defending the very specific groups that you are being oppressed. Until you have verifiable evidence and you can prove there is an actual problem, responding violently to a supposed problem is, in itself, morally problematic. I mean what if conspiracy theorists started killing those they think are lizard people behind the new world order? Believing there is a problem is not a justification for fixing it until you can actually prove thay there is actually a problem.  Additionally, Hitler was not a fascist. He was a national socialist. He came from the left. His ideas of government ownership by complete control over the puppet owners of the means of production is, functionally, more communistic than a free market democratic republic system (which is much closer to what people like Richard Spencer advocates for) where people are free to own what they are able to acquire legally.   The comparisons are only there because he is a nationalist and advocates ethnocentrism which is is fine so long as he isn't saying "kill all people of non Western European descent." If you read the actual literature on the societal implications of diversity vs ethnocentricity, people in cultures that are more ethnocentric tend to be happier, have stronger community bonds, and tend to grow financially stronger regardless of ethnicity the specific society is referencing. It is more racist to assume that if the French had a community and the Asians had a community, that either would do better and that the solution to prevent the differences between the two groups is to just mix them until neither have any identity.  It's not racist to like your heritage. It's probably more racist to assume blacks can't make it on their own so you have to help them by mixing them into white communities. Helping them because "racism" isn't actually helping anyone. It's the soft bigotry of low expectations. You're litteral saying, "you're black and you experience racism and you can't deal with it, so here's some help because I know you can't manage to rise above others opinions and do better than them and white people can't be oppressed ever so they never need help ever because they could rise above the situation." That's pretty fucking racist. The argument for ethnocentrists is actually pretty reasonable so long as they aren't ostracizing and kicking people from other cultures out to get what they want.   For instance, I find Norse religion interesting. If I founded a club to study Norse religion, I wouldn't want someone in that club bringing in Buddhist books every day and never contributing to our groups shared goals. The idea is similar, but obviously not the same. People who value similar things should have their own communities because they are better able to seek those values if they do. That's the argument for ethnocentrism. It's not from racism, it's from goal orientation. It may produce small societies that ostracise by ethnicity, but there's no harm in that if no one is getting hurt. The problem is that in Germany, under nationalistic socialism (a completely different system than Spencer advocates) there was a crazy man in power. With Trump and the subsection of his supporters who are ethnocentrists, the Nazi/Hitler comparison falls short because the ethnocentrism is not present in Donald Trump, and the socialism is not present in his supporters, so both can only be surface resemblances, not definitive replicas. Trump is not litteral Hitler and the alt right are not litteral Nazis (to be a Nazi, you have to be a socialist by definition - if you disagree, learn what the Nazi party was advocating for [national socialism]).   Now, I am an anarchist. I say fuck all that jazz, just let people do what they wanna do so long as they aren't harming anyone and let competing voluntary mechanisms administer justice peacefully to those who are violent based on natural rights violations. Personally, I don't care for any system of violent rulers and the state can go fuck itself no matter the form, so I'm against all of it. I do, however, believe the ability to utilize the vocal chords you were born with to make sounds and speech if you are able is pretty hard to suppress and that the harder you try, the more people hear what you're saying. It's better to ignore bad ideas as they will destroy themselves if they are truly that horrible and if people are smart enough to tell the difference. Simply promote what you think are good ideas and may the best one win by winning the minds of rational people through presenting the best case.
I'm of the opinion that punching the nazi probably wasn't the smartest thing to do, because all it really does is create a martyr and validate their victim complexes. This particular instance of punching a nazi was not effective at combating naziism, it only makes them feel more validated in their belief that the left are the real bad guys. But I don't feel an ounce of sympathy for him. If you advocate for the rights of others to be stripped away, you kinda can't really be surprised when someone else violates yours. So while I think it was the wrong thing to do, it's not really for the reasons some might think. I guess the question comes down to, at what point does punching nazis go from unnecessarily making things worse for ourselves, to a necessary self-defensive measure against violent oppression?  sincerely, a fucking white female.
punk radical looks too much like Jay from Jay and Silent bob lol.  So I just listened to the audio instead
I wouldn't say I encourage political violence... but I also can't say I feel much sympathy for Spencer, nor consternation at his attacker. Had it been some random alt-right protester, maybe... but Spencer? Hell no.
This is great. Thanks. I am firmly opposed to punching people for their views, but you expressed both sides well.
Why not make a video about Jason Blaha and his Texas racist cuckery?
Sure, you don't have to punch them and probably shouldn't, but I won't be calling the cops if I see it.  A stabbing, etc would be different, but for a punch on a Nazi I'm gonna look the other way.  You guys can cry now about that if you want.  It's ok.
You fail to address whether the target of your violence are Nazis or not... who has the right to label a group of people Nazis anyway?  I ask this because sane people witnessing recent events can see very clearly that the target of the violence are not even close to Nazis... theyre just assorted Right leaning individuals with their own personal Conservatism.
There is nothing wrong with being a nationalist, the idea that a person who calls themselves a nationalist, makes them equal to the members the national socialist party of old germany is illogical, even more so if the person is not even from germany. The idea of telling people they are wrong to put their own country or people first is as idiotic as telling a mother or father that they should care just as much about everyone else's children as they do their own and open the house to every stranger who wants to come in, it is not a sensible way of thinking. It is also not fair to paint people who are nationalist as racists, as putting your country and its people first is not an act of racism. In no way does putting your country first mean that you want to destroy everyone who does not share your ethnic background.
I haven't commented on a youtube video in...wow maybe 5 years or more, because you know...youtube comments. Just wanted to say I loved this video. I mean, it really seemed like you showed each side in its best light. Something that has been desperately missing in public discourse. Your work has value. Thank you for sharing!
I'm torn. On one hand, I hate watching friends fall out, and the nuance this video discusses makes me uncomfortably thoughtful. On the other hand, it's a great summary of most of the arguments I've seen out there and it doesn't try to suggest one answer is obvious. The genuine moral ambiguity here and my continuing interest in it makes me the poster boy for Commie Contra's accusation that this is as much a thought experiment as anything, to my privileged self.  Maybe the real question is what to do after coming to a conclusion (other than of course shout down fascists on the grounds that fascism is a call to indefensible violence and because their ideology inherently, and sometimes self-admittedly, cannot argue in good faith). I can't find it in myself to take a swing at the next Nazi I find, because I don't think I can make myself do that to a human being, so maybe I should recuse myself due to lack of testicular fortitude. But from the perspective of Antifa, does spinelessness really excuse me from a conversation?  Ugh this is complicateeeed
Great videos, as a left leaning individual with sympathy for the devil I am dismayed by the direction of the left of late. Glad to see there's some sense good left in it.  Noel Plum sent me btw
I just skipped through this video. And now I'm just going to leave a comment (as I am doing right now) - after which (which maybe should be "after-which" or "afterwhich" - I don't know?...  maybe I shouldn't have even used hyphen?)... after which (just to remind you) I am going to just close my laptop and breathe...     which in the real world would be walking out of a room to get some air, or if I wasn't in a room but a hallway then I would probably have to go outside, or may be to another part of town, or perhaps on vacation, or just somewhere alone where I can think in an unedited fashion.
Noelplum sent me. This is fucking amazing.
The "certain people are" Cancer rethoric is mainly overused by power hungry fascists. But  I agree, feminism (the ism) is Cancer.
Straw comunist makes some compelling points...
This is one of the best videos on the topic that i have seen. Presenting both sides of the argument in a rational way, sympathetic to the fact that people on both sides are just people. Rather than blanket statements, this is awesome, do more like this, YouTube needs this!
"You look like your mom dropped you off at a Green Day concert in 2003." Ha!
Damn dude. This was so nuanced it was hard to watch.
In my opinion, violence against someone for their beliefs is never a necessity. Even when your political opponents are in complete control, peaceful protests where their violence is met with your non-violence grants you a massive moral advantage that is plain for even the casual and disinterested observer to see. Just look at the success of ghandi. But even if you don't want to go down the complete pacifist route, violence should still only be used in response to violence. Speaking as an anti-SJW, resorting to violence to defeat your opponent only proves that you lack the capacity to dismantle their arguments with words. If someone commits violence, no matter what side they're on, then stopping that person with violence is sometimes necessary to ensure the safety of others; but to arbitrarily commit violence against someone who has not been violent themselves, just because you don't like the things that they are saying is utterly reprehensible. If you disagree, then talk to them. Bring them to your point of view by showing them a better argument. Punching them just breeds greater resentment against you, and can easily be used as a justification for a violence response.
I think punching Natsees will lead to punching Black-Bloc Commies which will lead to punching Alt-righters which will lead to punching Bernie-supporters which will lead to punching Trump Supporters which lead to punching Feminists which will lead to Punching Milo supporters which will lead to punching Laci Green supporters which will lead to punching Sargon supporters which will lead to punching Contra Points supports which will lead to punching Phillip DeFranco supporters which will lead to punching Boogie2988 supporters which will lead to...  Yeah, I know it's a slippery slope argument but I think we will get to punching moderates who barely stand on one side of the line or another pretty quick.
Who won?  Neither side in the video.  Correct answer is the Alt-Right, because this video demonstrates the division in the left right now and it's...not a comforting truth to confront.
You make good points. Push a group too far, and they will strike back. It happened twice (well, three times if you want to count the whole FLQ and October crisis mess) with the French-Canadians when English Canada tried to outlaw their language, culture, and religion (the Patriots revolts) and it's starting to happen now with the Kurds in Turkey for pretty much the exact same reasons. Now, knowing those facts mentioned above, imagine what will end up happening if you start using violence against far-right groups...
I love to see one Liberal who actually gets it. Must be sad to see you lost all your friends though...
*not a Nazi
Your best one yet
"Liberals get the bullet too."
It's clear to me that no one knows what Fascism is are conflating the alt-right with WW2 era Nazi's who want to exterminate mimority groups. Lmao...    Well The Alt-Right is an extreme minority, and this is an excuse for the inferior to excercise violence against those who's opinions they do not agree with or cannot change. Doesn't matter whether the person is an actual threat or not.
Idk Contra, your videos give me the impression that you think rightwing ideology is confined to anti-SJWism and fascism, and the fact that you characterise the right wing quadrant of your heart as primal or wrong most of the time is also pretty condescending, tbh.
the man in the dress is right! 💓
Eterofag here, dude, You are so fucking pretty.  :3
To be honest assuming the general public don't like leftism or that leftism hasn't attempted to engage with the working class is completely ahistorical, communism is rooted in class struggle!
I have literally been having this exact conversation over the past few days.
"I'm just playing devil's advocate"  - literally this entire fucking video
an excellent literary piece with the social commentary that our path of the current polarized political dialogue will continue to escalate until everyone becomes at least a bit more self reflective.  Where is the gadly when we need him?
Is it weird that I'd feel safer around an Antifa who might riot in the streets versus Richard Spencer who might not?.... Am I a bad person?
Interesting video as always Contra. I'm honestly undecided on the topic. My initial position was indifference after seeing the Spencer footage, but today I found myself laughing with a liberal friend at my workplace about it.   I think I find it funnier now after hearing Jontron of all people say it was somehow the scariest thing he's seen all year. That and I experienced literal dog-pilling in comments by people defending Spencer when I just neutrally referenced the event without taking a stance on it when talking about something else.    I can also understand and sympathize with the motive of the puncher cause if I met and talked with someone, and they said we should really be reconsidering whether ethnic cleansing is a bad thing, I could see myself punching them. I've literally never punched anyone in my life but that's how repulsive some of the things Spencer has said are. At the same time, I find it difficult to condone the act for all the reasons the bourgeois liberal you  brings up.
ARE YOU THE HUMEN VERSION OF ROGER IN AMERICAN DAD
This was so on point! I'm glad to find your channel, kind of rising above the jerking. I'm usually pacifist in my ideology, but punching a nazi in the face might be actually just karma coming into fruition. All that hate talk that nazi has spread is coming back to them as a form of punch. I mean that punch might be a learning experience for the nazi, making him realize that holy fuck it's not nice being the target of violence.  Maybe I'm wrong but I think it's worth a try punching a nazi in the face. The intention is not to permanently harm them, I don't think it's good to start war with them, but a single well landed punch might work to make them come to senses. I think the people who are defending the nazi might be doing more harm, they are legitimizing their hateful viewpoints.
Im still with my comrade with this.   Some of the accusations are actually known/considered as liberal traits, and I don't buy that dreary, bs purity argument.
This was a great video. I like the description of it as a depiction of "the dysfunctional ways people on the left talk to each other," which I think is an easier thing to learn from it than 'who won.'  As for whether it is right or wrong for people to punch nazis in the face, I came to realize that I personally should probably not try to punch nazis in the face because it can be very difficult to identify who is or isn't a nazi. This might seem strange if the first image that comes to mind from the word 'Nazi' is some dude wearing a black shirt and waving a swastika flag shouting 'whyaat powwer!' but there is also a significant incentive for nazis to attempt to disguise their ideology. Facism didn't die after WWII, but it did get a bad rap in the U.S. amongst a fair number of people. Neo-nazis know this and might try to disguise their views as 'just asking questions' or 'I'm not racist I just really care about white people/crime statistics/globalism not Jews.' How many times have you seen a person posting these dog whistles, only to later be caught raving about some very explicit racist, anti-Semitic, or downright genocidal shit? There's a reason some of those terms come to be recognized as dog whistles in the first place.   Secondly, nazis will peddle a myth of their own unjust persecution. This was a key talking point of the actual nazis, who made sure to never let up on just how much the Bolsheviks/Jews were out to get them. As such, I can be fairly sure any real neo-nazi is going to take whatever story they could find about a nazi getting punched and try to spin it as 'an innocent being injured.' From that, I've got to take into consideration that I am fallible, and may not be able to identify a person with nazi sympathies correctly, and could potentially end up punching a completely innocent person based on false information or such. Alternatively, I may punch someone who I think is a nazi, but many other people don't. Functionally these events are the same, because the actual nazis will then go on to say 'look, look, he punched an innocent, feel sympathy for us!' People might fall for that.  One of the things I've learned is that people's definition of a nazi (sorta like people's definition of racism) is real fucking relative. I have read online statements by people trying to argue that members of the SS were not Nazis. If someone can be that deluded, I'm pretty sure a much larger swath of people can convince themselves and others that Richard Spencer doesn't qualify as a nazi. Because of these difficulties in identifying nazis, the greater difficulty in coming to a public consensus on who are nazis, and the possible adverse effects of punching nazis, I'm probably not going to punch any nazis in the face. I would prefer the suppression of fascist movements be undertaken by a professional organization with a system of checks and balances restraining its actions.  I look forward to more videos as you experiment with new formats/funny costumes.
So a quick look at the history of punching fascists in the face (Communists did quite a lot of this during the Wiemar Republic) shows that it lets them know whom to round up first.   Nope, not a useful strategy.
We got to protect the pearls!
Don't know how Trump is coming up in a conversation about fascists, considering he isn't one.  Also, it Actually is usually is PC BS.  Listen to your heart!
Brilliantly structured and climactic. Really enjoyed this.
I don't know why, but that bit about "Now I have the hammer" made me laugh my ass off. Mostly because I was just thinking "Wasn't the militant character the one holding the hammer?"
"I know your audience is small" drag ha!
Killing Republicans, sounds like a good idea.....
Punching natsees is only acceptable when your political side has just wasted billions on an incompetent campaign, and a loud orange man is now dismantling all of the various degeneracies you hold dear.
I will uppercut a nazi's chin so hard it will unite with their forehead
Nick.  Please leave Nick alone.
a. I think you're misrepresenting the radical leftist position, because such people don't tend to invoke identity politics the same way. Those who are not "brocialists" will say x-group as a class is oppressed, but most do not tend to judge someone's actions by how privileged they are, unless it pertains to economic class. for instance, I rarely hear them say things like "your views are invalid because you're a white cis male". one of my biggest gripes with other leftists has been their willingness to use sexist/racist etc talking points when they're discussing elites.  b. while I don't consider maintaining ideological purity to be a productive goal in and of itself, dialoguing with the other "side" runs the risk of having to renounce the radicals on your own "side" to gain their sympathy. you run the risk of of implying "I'm good, because I renounce "Big Red"/Anita Sarkeesian/Antifa/Islamists". the goal is to convince people of ideas, not whether the label of feminist/leftist/BLM describes something good or bad.
I am with you as a girl ....
You make a better looking girl than a guy ....
lol oh my god!!! 8:20 xD
My nigga, you just crushed them balls, I mean eggs, at the end there. Damn, you sadistic af.
How appropriate is it too align yourself with an ideology that killed millions in the gulags? One that these days makes open alliances with islamic theocratic fascists? You Americans...
I believe in rational discourse AND punching natsees. I want to have my cake and eat it, too.
Are you still pro-trans?
Look what groups agree with what parts of your video and see if there is any overlap.  IDK if good faith is even possible, but hey, if you say folks have changed their minds, then I'll take your word for it.  Most folks that demand to be "educated" simply want to use your words against you rather than actually learn.  That is why they get so mad when you post links rather than debate them for hours.  IF you really want to learn, the research it yourself.
Good "old" nykotyne <3 ...holy crap I started on  youtube 9 years ago?
It's like you're listening to yourself say 'This is a matter of life and death for some people.' But you're not really hearing it tbh.
ContraPoints;  Is the subtext that people like this are friends because they need to vent to one another deliberate, or is that something I'm needlessly reading into the video because it's something I've experienced in real life?
Your videos are usually pretty enjoyable to watch, but this one is a slog. Having a dialogue between two characters have seemed like a good idea, but dialogue in film usually lasts a lot shorter than this, and if it's sustained for longer, usually the characters will walk around, the frame will make use of different blocking to keep up with the peaks and troughs of character arousal.   Watching two characters talking to eachother for 15 minutes with little to break it up just makes for a grating experience. The script also seemed to lack economy: too many quips and too much colour. You probably could have gotten your point across in less time, if you had confidence in your framing device and didn't feel the need to fleshen out your characters in favour of enunciating their respective arguments. Your delivery seemed a little flat too  Honestly, most of your videos are pretty on point as far as style and pacing go, so I'll assume that you released this one knowing it was one of your weaker pieces, but not willing to let so much work go to waste. I expect your next video will back to your usual level of quality
This video is criminally underviewed. Instant classic. Thanks for making it.
It is wrong to not punch Nazis. I would like to enter as evidence ALL OF HISTORY!
You're the Laci Green of the left
Contrapoints is the Laci Green of the left.
This is so goddamn good.
A man who preaches hate and violence has little recourse when hate and violence comes a knocking at his face, but there's nothing a Nasty can say that'll make me give up my belief in the universal human right to be free from violence.
am I the only one who 100% agrees with Bourgeois contrapoint
tbh, dont agree with you on everything but i like your vids, keep up the good work
"I'm just playing devil's advocate"  - literally contrapoints in this video 2017
It's a shame you don't have more subscribers.  I think that I probably have a significantly different life philosophy than you, but the way you express your opinions is so much more mature and rational than anyone else who says the same thing, I have a hard time disagreeing.    On the topic of violence, violence is never OK as a first response.  It's absolutely acceptable as a solution though.  It's not OK to punch natsees just for saying things you don't like.  (I actually don't even know who or why the guy who got punched is, I'm just taking your word that he's a "natsee".)  But once they start acting on those things, and infringing on other peoples freedoms, then a swift kick to the face is in order.  Of course, it feels good to see bad people get their come uppance.  that's why heroes like Batman and The Punisher are so popular.  But remember, those "heroes" are still technically criminals, and the law exists to do the best it can to punish the "bad guys", even if it misses sometimes.  And remember, it's always fun to root for the vigilante, until he decides YOU'RE the criminal.  This of course becomes extremely complicated when looking at issues such as Trump's recent decisions about immigration.  He's definitely ruffling some feathers and starting down a path towards some very bad things.  But at what point does "violence" become an acceptable response?
commies killed way more people than fascists so fuck you dirty commie !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
did my big long comment disappear? can't find it anywhere :( was pretty proud of it.
I think no-one won.
Amazing. This is truly silly. Why are you all wasting your time and energy arguing among yourselves over a Neo-Nazi getting slugged? Let it go already and start planning for things to come or if you keep having these petty little infights over every little thing on Earth then prepare to kiss your Left and Liberal ideals goodbye.
One of these nazi assholes just shot up a mosque, and not even in the US. Yeeeahhh not so much sympathy for the liberal side of this right now. Make them afraid to leave the house before they fucking kill us astaghfirullah.
thank you so much for this video it puts exactly what i think in words and helps me rationalize myself in a world that calls me a 'nazi-sympathizer' for not wanting to suicide bomb trump  is the alt-left a moderate left that can understand both sides? a liberal worldview that puts politics in the backseat in order to facilitate discussion?
I don't think it's okay until that individual is violent towards you. And if people really care about stopping these radical right wing ideologies, then they should know that violence against them only validates their positions.
Don't know if anyone else has said this yet, but, I really appreciate the shot including the champagne flute. It's oddly poignant. Like sure, breaking things is fun but you still have to pick up the mess afterwards. Which I think speaks to the bigger situation at hand.
9:18 This is exactly how I feel about both sides. I'm glad I stumbled across your channel.
oh boy,  i guess even without any hope of arriving to a conclusion those kind of discussions are worth to be had.  i think i personally lean to the leftie punk side and that punching incident makes a delightful gif to watch over and over, but i am also compelled by the liberal side of the argument (like if violence is acceptable where to draw the line etc.) but also weirdly at least in this case it 's the liberal dude that is a kind of wide eyed idealist, and the commie one is more pragmatic.
are they both you? or is the one in the beanie a parody? is the one with the beanie your insecurity?
are they both you? or is the one in the beanie a parody?
youtube probably works better than punching that guy
FUCK YOU, you really got me with that Skype sound at the beginning...
Were you parodying Jason Unruhe? lol. Looks like you were.
Now I'm glad I actually stuck around for the 2017 Contra material. Good stuff.
Great video. You should do a separate one about feminism!
Too many of the Vanguardists and Anarchists act as though they operate outside compromising to this system of commerce. Hogwash. Capitalist commerce can just as easily market/package your own ideology and sell it back to you on a  t-shirt.You're not beyond it guys. You're immersed in it just as much so as anyone else. The fact that you oppose it in the abstract means little to nothing if you can't carve out a separate economy that can secure autonomy for your fellow "workers". Of course, you're the one with purer principles. It's not like Socialist and Communist regimes weren't just as easily able to discriminate against Social Democrats when they had the upper hand or something.
So, when Liberals fought against the Paleo-conservatives to give Socialists the right to voice their opinions on political issues (Vietnam, Capitalism, workers exploitation, etc) during the 1960s, was it with the knowledge that rights weren't commonly excepted by either of them for the same reasons? Many Paleo-liberals and Social Democrats assumed that Students for a Democratic Society should have the right to voice their opposition whether or not their views were dangerous. It didn't matter whether their views were dangerous. They should have the right to voice it anyway. It would seem that the other side didn't concur. Rather, I suspect that SDS didn't return the sentiment because they think they are right. This I suspect lays with the fact that they wanted to be the ones to sit on the throne of power instead of the Paleo-Conservatives. Perhaps the Will to Power is too alluring.
Punching a nazi is okay, killing him is better. Greetings from Germany, where they teach us basic truths like that at school.
From the deepest desires often come the deadliest hate-Socrates.
this is the best video of a guy jacking off that I've seen on this site
hey Contra, have you considered discussing/debating this with someone from a marginalised group? I like the way you presented this and you made great points on both sides but it would be interesting to see you discuss these points with someone who's actually experienced violence from fascists.
What does it mean to call Liberalism  bourgeois? Because of how Liberal thought originated? Because the originators of liberal thought weren't working class? Wouldn't that also make a lot of Vanguardist schools of Socialist thought  bourgeois? Is Marxism  bourgeois because Engels father was a wealthy industrialist, from whom he inherited his wealth? Is it because Liberalism is the preferred political system of the western world or that it is perceived by Vanguardist and Anarcho types as the philosophy of the status quo? Or is it how they think that Liberalism is some road paving precursor to Authoritarianism and Class division?
Beanie is compelling on a visceral level. Dress on an intelectual level. Just like everything.
His fashing out in the middle was indeed too convincing, and appealing. His antifa was too obviously abhorrent.  Confirmed for /ourguy/
The discourse style is really different from everything else on YouTube; especially presenting both sides as equal and neither as "correct" encourages people to think about both sides.
i want the commie and the crossdresser to kiss
Will you marry me?
You know, this starts to remind me more and more of Wiemar Republic. Natsees and Commies running around beating each other. Two authoritarian groups fighting for power, identical in methods, but somewhat different in motivations. Spencer is going on the fuhrer track way more than Trump and thats undeniable, but how would I justify beating him and his ilk and not hardcore communists or imams preaching islamism and distributing islamist literature? All of these exlusionary groups are dangerous for non-extremists as they intend to destroy the good parts "liberal democracies", by preaching violent means of getting into power, or spreading reality warping propaganda using flaws of the system (money, serious astroturfing, overblown victimhood narratives), in order to be King of the Hill. In all of these cases its about subjugating everyone under THE ONE worldview :\  And a little note of self-awareness: Im aware of this "Im a moderate" fallacy that permeates ALL sides. I kinda hope that my adherence to a sort of an evolutionary view of politics, where there is a normal/gauss distributed (multidimensional) spectrum of opinions, is the best option for longterm survivability of humanity. Wait, what are you doing? Why are you kicking me of my Ivory Tower...aaaaaa!  Good video!
Well, Spencer was on the David Packman show recently, so discussing his views with a jewish person...so it's not a 1930's Nazi. As long as he his discussing and not using force, I find it unjustified to punch him...these are fascist methods to silence. BTW someone should make you king or queen of youtube...best channel around! :D
While I support the Nazi getting punched. At what point is someone just a right leaning person and at what point are they a Fascist?
idk about you but I'm pretty convinced by ComradeContraPoints' arguments
Impressively self-aware and well-realized satire on a number of issues that I (a communist myself) already had rather nuanced positions on initially. One especially salient point was that we need to be better spokespeople, as most taken by fascist sympathy are not Richard Spencer, but people with anxieties brought about by the very systems we claim to oppose, but who are acclimated to strawmen of opposing ideas by not finding an avenue by which to relate to them. Not only should we be more pliant to hearing out why they have adopted these perspectives, but also cognizant of more avenues by which to relate are messages to this public. I am a unambiguously staunch proponent of humor and, yes, irony, as tools that can be worth using in this pursuit. I use them quite judiciously in my dealings, and I don't think the alt-right would be using them if they weren't effective. Call me violent if you want, but without humor, I will not God damn accept that! :D I find that, for many individuals, rather than creating an necessarily alienating effect, humor can help bring them closer to other perspectives and elements of society that they may have thought too intimidating to even begin to contemplate beforehand, making them that much more receptive to acknowledging the pernicious aspects of their own beliefs. Before I go on for far longer than for my own good, we can stand to consider other means of discourse than yelling dialectic at them and expecting them to perceive it as obvious as it appears to us. I'm not convinced that being woke to the benefits of multiple communication methods can't make the rhetoric and movement easier to co-opt by the boujees than it otherwise would be, unless we want it to remain impenetrable to those we wish to help liberate.
It's hilarious to see a caricature of a Communist appalled about how many people a different political ideology has killed.  You never brought up the obvious irony.  Maybe if you had him sitting on a throne atop a mountain of human skulls.... like, borrow some images from the killing fields or something.  That might be a good way to drive that point home.  Pushing it a bit too far perhaps though... I guess you're going for subtlety.  I mean, for every fist that supposedly deserves to fall on an otherwise peaceful Nazi's face, two aught to be falling on this dude.
Important to note that Richard Spencer is a close ally of Steve Bannon, the guy actually in charge in the White House right now. Any argument that Spencer is fringe, powerless, or in any way undeserving of serious, radical response loses the context of the crisis America has put itself in right now.
Stop it the pair of you!
A well timed tantrum is better than a tantrum all the time.
Your use of the Skype notification sounds is subliminally triggering me!  Actually it's a stroke of infinite genius.
Dammit! i need a response to my comment from Contrapoints for my [book report, *cough cough*] but there is no way he will respond to my comment since this is only 1 out 805! All i needed was his response to the comment "sleeveless dresses are not the most flattering fashion choice." if only he could respond... wink wink, *nudge* *nudge* ;-)
Justifying violence against a group of people vaguely defined by a reductionist buzzword. Characterizing then as effectively sub human and incapable of being dealt with by means other than systematic elimination. That they are exoloitative sociopaths deliberately and illegitimately keeping the good decent folk in comparative poverty for their own gain. Claiming that it's for the greater good of society as a whole to comit violence against them, and that you represent the hard working people of true conviction and character that are getting fucked over. Fearmongering over what the humans WILL do to us all if we don't crush them into the dirt.  This all sounds uncomfortably familiar. Why is the most strongly anti-nazi position the one that shares all of the WORST characteristics of nazism? The horse shoe is strong with this one.
At heart I am bougie Contra, but almost everyone in my outer circle/peer group are commie Contras. I feel like I have to hide what I really think and appeal to/play along with them, because the alternative is being accused of being a fascist sympathizer (or at least 'too soft' in response to a dangerous ideology) and being labeled a bad person forever. I've seen some people being viciously ostracized and shamed for bringing up bougie Contra's points.  What's worse is that it's well known that my grandmother is a holocaust survivor, and that's been used against me in a "this issue is something close to you, you need to be madder!" kind of way, and that emotional appeal has actually worked in making me much more pro-nazi-punching. I'm conscious of it all but it still makes me mad.
Nice video.
This is art.
Why are the right and the anti-sjws suddenly anti violence? Haven't they spent all their time the last few years telling anyone who doesn't 100% share their views to kill themselves? A lot of them even went as far as to say people who got shit in real life for having social justice views (or even just leftist views some of the time) deserve what ever harassment and threats they get. But those derned suhjuhwuhs enjoying watching a white supremacist getting punched in the face is just too far.  Spencer is a white supremacist that provides a platform for honest to god nazis, I have no sympathy for him.  I enjoy seeing someone getting their just deserts for constantly kicking a hornets nest, but let's try not to make a habit out of knocking people's block off. Save it for those who really deserve it.
My two cents is this: whenever people go on about how without punching Nazi's they will do their worst. However they were punching Nazi's in Weimar Germany there were running battles between communist groups and the Brownshirts. For Petes sake one of the anthems of Nazism the Horst Wessel song was about a brownshirt shot by Communists. Yet for all this the Nazi's won and took over and the rest is awful history.  My second point is that allot of the rhetoric around this is annoying me because it often comes across like revolutionary larping. People get to circlejerk how violence always works against fascists and say stuff like "there are no bad strategies only targets" yet get all huffy when somebody asks why their not trying to assassinate Trump. I get that allot of this is just people searching for any kind of cartharsis considering how shit the situation has got. Stuff like the million women's march and the lawsuits brought forward by lawyers I think will prove to be more useful in the end. Punching just doesn't seem to fit anywhere since peaceful protests (note doesn't mean polite or non confrontational people conflating the two is a rant for another day) work up until a point and with modern armies and state apparatus being as scary as they are armed resistance would be the next option, low level violence just seems like an indulgence.
This is your best episode.
Argues against genocide wears genocidal iconography.
You are the best youtuber right now.
sounds like my internal dialogue but for now i think i have to give the win to the violent radical strawman over the bougie nazi sympathizer. if donald had lost and we had reason to believe that boring and "problematic" but stable Liberalism would be maintained for at least 4 years it would be different. rational debate has failed. things like truth are not important to what appears to be a large portion of the country. punch a nazi if you want, but you will probably get arrested if you are caught and that should be expected. feel free to not punch the nazi but dont expect to keep your street cred with the people who see no option other than lashing out. if someone calls you out for having self serving opinions from a privileged perspective give it a serious moment of introspection and then decide whether or not you still agree with yourself. if you do still agree, feel free to keep on talking and let the audience sort out whether or not they think you are worth seriously listening to.
Contrapoints is probably my favorite YouTuber
Is it appropriate to punch nazis? When they start trying to:  1.) Take political power, via the establishment of political parties, paramilities or movements--those organizations must be stopped.  2.) When they're in power, and are oppressing people.  But some guy in the street isn't really a threat. I mean, it's kind of funny, and I think it's good that these Nazis have a reminder that they're the disliked minority group who can't do the punching, but I don't really think it's right to start calling for war until y'know the Naizs are marching down the street to run for President or trying to establish some militia.
See, on one level i get it. We DO suck at talking to the right. But the right has been marinating in "liberals are evil and everything you hate in the world" news for 2 decades. They aren't really open to listening to us in the first place. And its frustrating cause a huge chunk of them don't hate liberals, they hate the demonic image of liberals they have in their head. So when you actually get them talking issues, more often then not their closer than you'd think.   My working strategy is try to talk, but acknowledging that for most of them the turning point is gonna have to come from inside themselves. And then you come to help once they realize how thoroughly they've been lied to. I indulge in "trumpgrets" for some schadenfreude, but will NEVER gloat to their face. Will send them running right back.
commie contra is 100% true, we have this thing called "history" we can learn from
Oh, blecch, why do you even hang with that fool?
Anyone else here from reddit.com/r/FULLCOMMUNISM ?
this was awesome! só well made
5:44 rip in peace headphone users  Nice vid btw
Interesting video, Contrapoints. As a post-left/egoist anarchist, I think post-leftism is a third viewpoint to this argument that incorporates some of the opinions of both of these sides with some extra original things. It'd be pretty cool to see a video on a post-leftist topic or viewpoint addressing a contemporary issue. Or maybe people like you are influencing people like me to write essays or make YouTube videos of my own. Anyway, enjoyed the video as always. Thanks.
I also don't know how much of a stereotype there is of the left being "violent", given how often we're accused of being super sensitive snowflakes. If anything I'd say it'd be BETTER if we WERE seen as violent in a sense, while it could potentially lead to escalation, as I stated in my other posts often minority militia groups and antifa itself has played a part in intimidating away far right threats historically.
This is some Kierkegaardian level dialogue. Props to you for being this intellectually honest.
I'm what someone like you would call an "anti-sjw" but your videos are some of the funniest and most informative I have come across. You have earned yourself a subscriber sir....or ma'am? Xer?
I don't like making fun of tumblr just for the lols but on tumblr we sort of have this meme we call the discourse. Which means we can't have arguments about stuff without completely polarizing ourselves. (i agree with 9:29)  I really want the ace discourse to just go away and I really just want to block terfs. because as people say on tumblr if you don't respect my existence I won't respect your opinions. But I think maybe the only way to make them go away might be to listen to them, for a long time. And sometimes I am in the headspace to listen to bigots to go along with them, but not when I'm on tumblr usually. I do think the punching richard spencer meme was helpful tho, definitely, the alt right and anti-sjw gamergate have always used memes and thats because they have power I think.  cont. some advocates against racism don't like trevor noah, I think because of the tomi lahren interview. And I feel bad for disagreeing with them because they obviously know more about racism than me a white person. But I agree with what he said in that interview with the breakfast club "if you chuck racists out where are they going to go". I you just tell every bigot to piss off then sure you'll have less bigots around YOU (which might something very necessary to you if your existence is endangered by that bigotry) but it won't decrease the amount of bigotry in the world. So that basically brings me to the conclusion that all white people should have a conversation with our racist uncle instead of cutting him off. I'm not going to ask a jew to civilly have a conversation with a nazi, but maybe if you're friend starts calling everyone cucks and faggots and won't shut up about pepe as a person with privilege you should sit down and talk to them about stuff. idk
Punks are anarchists not commies.
Punching him allows him to create a victim narrative. Violence for political beliefs isn't acceptable in my worldview. I think many people take it for granted that white nationalism is wrong or Nazism is wrong, but never actually sit down to think/explain WHY it's wrong. Personally, I'm not sure you can truly claim it to be "wrong" in any objective sense. If you don't value things like human rights or the likes, then Nazism would be an acceptable worldview to you. From what I've seen, much of the political disagreements in the world seem to stem from a difference in values or principles as opposed to something being objectively right or wrong. That applies to the most extreme all the way down to the mundane. Maybe I'm wrong, but I've certainly never seen/heard somebody take the time to explain it.
Seeing this reminds me of your last video. Any chance you can host it on some other site so I can view it?
"This video is deliberately ambiguous"  not really. most people that are laughing or condoning richard spencer getting punched aren't communists (me included). The only thing missing from this video was  "freeze peach!!". This video is gonna be soooo funny in 4 years if Trump is beaten and refuses to step down, or wins because the vote is so suppressed because the court did away with voting rights  "first they came for the muslims, and all I did was speak out, cuz nazis have their rights too, you know?" -contrapoints  do you believe in natural rights, or something? This is just your refusal to take responsibility for the morality you advocate. The existence of a liberal democracy is by default the suppression of fascism. It should be illegal to promote nazism and fascism. oooh, am I doing "illiberal" things? bite me. Why must people go to jail for the things _you_ deem wrong? because you have "God" on your side, or something? You're not above us, you just think you are ... SAD!
The videos just keep getting better - You are destined for greatness ContraPoints
All of this went completely over my head and I loved it. It's like watching the 4th of July.
Holy shit, you're the funniest, most brilliant fucking white male on YouTube.
Oh this is perfect. I've gotten into literally the same discussion a few times before. It truly is an intractable thing sometimes. Both sides can be right, that's the issue.
The far-left is humourless? Have you not seen our Stirner, bread and toothbrush memes??
Please never don't cross dress ever again Q_Q  Fun vid!
I knew it. I knew as soon as both your personas started talking at the same time you were doing the thing ERB did.  Anyway, thanks for making a video that sums up my inner conflict on the issue.
A very good representation of my own conflicted thoughts on the issue.  I can't put it into words but I feel like the whole "either you're for punching Nazis or you're against punching Nazis" framing is just so...weird.  I'm not a fan the "we shouldn't sink to their level!" mentality, but I just don't get what the punch accomplished.    I'm also feeling a little guilty for not supporting more creators' Patreons...
Please link to these golden underpants. I'd like to arrive places in those.
I identify more with the bourgeois liberal or "liberal burgués" but i understand that certain points from the punk or "zurdo trotskista" are valid, and come on... i'm not saying that punch Natsees in every situation it's fine, but i don't think that their doctrine is morally tolerable, less in plene 21st century. Besides, i love the ambiguity of the video and how you make the people think, and you got right in that point (i mean you because YOU are more the "liberal burgués" and not too the "zurdo trotskista") that every day more and more anti sjws realizes thank to people like you the fails of their own side. Hope you'll read that and keep the good work too! P.S: I would kill for that legs <3
I'm loving this expanding cast of characters in the ContraPoints cinematic universe.
Contra isn't providing a "here's what to think" video. I interpret this as acted out scenerio for how a "pro-violence" vs "democratic civil discussion" debate would become. Some good points made, but eventually leading to a lot of logical fallacies, yammering and inevitable childish name calling.  I did notice the Natsee Puncher was guilty of the former FAR more than the Bourgeois Liberal.
A call for universal brotherhood to a cheesy MIDI beat?  I don't think so, SJW scum!!!  UNSUBBBBBBBEEEEEDDDDDD!!!!!!!!!!!!!
In the face of the real political threat of Trump, I wish liberals and leftist could set aside their petty bickering to mount an actual opposition. Instead I got to watch a relatively important voice for the American left spend all day complaining that tumblr called Americans racist, instead of fighting the incredibly illegal unethical and unconstitutional ban on Muslim immigration.
I've actually had this discussion before, I was the petty bourgeois fucking half-white fucking half-straight fucking skinny fucking cis fucking male fucking pearls and champagne fuck
I don't condone that guy getting punched, but I'm not gonna complain that he got punched either.
Yeah left wing discussion groups are pretty niche. Been trying to ask the right questions to my liberal friends to make them realize that capitalism and the state are the problem, and that they don't need to make up conspiracy theories to find the cause of our fucked up world.
Your videos are really well made and artistic. Something that a lot of YouTube channels lack. You are great.
A lot of this is just a series of straw man arguments, amalgamations of different & inconsistent ideologies (e.g. liberal arguments  coming from the radical left side, the rad-left praising Trotsky (doesn't happen)) and so on. Maybe that was the point, but it makes through apparent point of the video (reping both sides) moot if it doesn't represent something actual.
Antifa ha ha ha
I see the ambiguity you were going for in this vid.  I would say that my sympathies are more with the punching, since like you pointed out, the committed Natsees ARE looking to normalize their rhetoric and that's incredibly dangerous as the first week of the Trump presidency has shown us.  Even if a lot of what he's done is flailing around, that flailing around has still caused a lot of damage.  However, said Natsees are also eager for the opportunity for retaliation being punched gives them, which can in turn buy them sympathy, and the fact of the matter is that the Right has more guns, and they're more eager to use them.  In that sense, Natsee punching can be QUITE harmful.  That said, I think that if you know what you're getting into by punching and prepared, like the guy who decked Spencer was, then I say punch away.
The awareness in this video is through the roof. Hilarious too. As a W H I T E  M A L E I was reminded of my own thoughts several times throughout. The more I think over things and debate them in my head like this the more I think that it's impossible to have a definite opinion on anything. I'm definitely conflicted about the whack-a-nazi situation. bravo
Excellent! One of my favorite episodes! :D
Damn good video!
One way of thinking about this (I suppose) is to think about it in terms of that classic "free speech is not freedom from the consequences of your speech". What I mean is that you can consider getting punched in the head (whether or not you approve of head-punching in principle) to be a predictable consequence of publicly airing what most people consider objectionable views. I imagine a paedophile apologist might well get similar treatment.  Historically, this (violent response) is a consequence that people have been willing to risk when they genuinely believed their cause was correct and worthy of defense - cf. treatment of civil rights campaigners etc. This is not to suggest that Nazis are morally equivalent to civil rights campaigners, but more to wonder if Spencer et al have the courage of their convictions, or if they'll back down in the face of continued violent opposition.  (As far as the question of violent response, my upbringing was Quaker, so my inclination is always anti-violence regardless of where it's pointed.)
the amount of nuance in this video overwhelms me with contemplative discomfort
A point that isn't brought up by either side in this video is that the Alt-Right is *already* committing violence. it's not like they're just peacefully spewing their rhetoric about genocide and the left is just beating up peaceful pundits. They're killing people *Right Now*. Also, just because mass extermination isn't happening right this minute doesn't mean it wont happen in the near future. We've already seen the beginning of the process with the muslim ban. Also it's not that Fascism is inevitable, but once it gets any sort of foothold it moves incredibly fast, and the way to prevent it escalating is by completely removing from public discourse, which requires a level of violence. These people can't be swayed by debate (if they could Trump wouldn't have won the election after being trounced in all three presidential debates) because they don't even believe in their own ideology; it's all just post hoc justification for their violent impulses. And yes, you may have been able to convince some conservatives or moderates with your videos and arguments, but full blown Fascists? I sincerely doubt it.  I mean I get where you're coming from, I'm also a cis white man who has the a occasionally conservative feelings. And I also am a pretty staunch pacifist, and long term I think violence can only accomplish so much and education on fascism and a concerted effort to change our own racist and violent tendencies is needed to get rid of fascism forever. But in the short term, a level of violence is necessary just for survival.
One thing that a lot of us on the left won't admit: we don't want to debate nazis because their views are simply too disgusting and reprehensible to deal with, and it feels icky. No one wants to handle the dirty diapers of the right. And yes, their views are disgusting, but we've got to have some amount of debate, because minds can be changed. I've spent some time on r/debatealtright for example; their arguments are insanely dumb, but some of these people simply haven't heard the refutations before. Most people there are inconsolably ignorant, but there may be a few that aren't.  At the same time, punching prominent nazis is a good thing. Simply look at the public support against them that the incident has rallied. It's a two-tiered strategy.
Hey, does anyone know the particular song playing at the beginning, in the Richard Spencer punching clip? It sounds like some sort of techno-ish Ode to Joy, but there are several results for that on YouTube.
Fascists are going to commit violence anyways aren't they? I mean that's part of why they are fascists. The point is to induce fear into them, fear of taking their platform public. To induce fear into the online nazi, to make him think twice... "oh shit, if i go and try to say this in real life i might get clocked like richard spencer". And that is a good thing, in my book. Politics is a dark art and different situations call forth different courses of action, sometimes intimidation being one. I think you do good and necessary work in combatting the wave of online reactionaries through exposing the weakness of their arguments, but the guys out there punching nazis are doing work just as necessary by hopefully  intimidating fucks like richard spencer followers  from trying to take their toxic ideology off the internet. "It is better to be feared than loved" - Machiavelli
Hey, let him finish!
The notion of someone with a hammer and sickle pin lecturing anyone about a need to violently oppose fascism is hilarious if you know anything about the history of the late Weimar Republic. The German Marxists refused to cooperate with the Social Democrats (with their petty notions of freedom of expression and the like, obviously a bunch of class traitors and bourgeoisie) in opposing the rise of Nazism, because the Marxists were convinced that fascism was the final gasp of capitalism before the inevitable working class revolution. As such it shouldn't be opposed, and maybe even encouraged. So they refused to utilize their substantial army of paramilitaries to engage in street violence.  God, Marxism is a fucking cult.
Loved this discussion and it basically sums up how I feel about this whole thing.  Like I'm not so pretentious I'm going to stifle my laughter at the richard spencer memes, but do I really know if I support this shift into punching Nazis yet?  I don't know.  I think you reach a point where you have to use violent resistance, but I'm not sure where that line is and I am certainly not prepared to risk my life getting arrested or punched out in the struggle.  So basically I my emotions are clashing with each other.
Black bloc are a bunch of idiot clowns who have never accomplished anything other than to give the media ammunition to depict any protest as some kind of dangerous, radical uprising. To such an extent that I very much suspect they're mostly agent provocateurs. A bit of advice for anyone who ever runs any kind of activist organization: any person who suggests violent action is almost certainly an undercover FBI agent, and should be kicked out of the group immediately.
(I agree with Comrade Contra:p so this is in response to Bourgie Contra!!) My main problem with your video Contra is you're arguing from a point of idealism - When they go low, we go high mentality. But history has shown us time and time again what happens when problems get ignored. If you have not I recommend you read 'The Origins of Totalitarianism' it shows you from the perspective of someone who lived through the holocaust the type of peaceful relationship liberals had in Germany and how pacifism lead for a Fascist take over. Idealism holds no weight in the real world, you're asking how punching a single Nazi helps the situation. Like you said Hitler was quoted with saying "Only one thing could have stopped our movement - if our adversaries had understood its principle and from the first day smashed with the utmost brutality the nucleus of our new movement." Pacifism will lead to a fascist takeover.  What you think should happen; not what history has materialistically shown what happens.
Are you single?!?!
A dead Nazi is a peaceful Nazi.
Just a short question to the ContraPoints " community ". Am I actually the only person who is strongly leaning towards republican worldviews and values, which is watching his videos and can understand many of his points given  ? It's always nice when people interduce each other to different views and aspects while they explain their basics and facts behind them, so we can develope our own views with a even sharper eye for human diversity and dignity.  Greetings from Europe my friends !
who else got freaked out by the Skype call noise & thought someone was calling them? XD
Punk wins.  Fascists already think that violence is justified: they simply don't have the numbers to carry it out yet, so they're feigning both their distress as well as their ethical purity by not indulging in violence against antifa.  I think it's silly, and indicative of a mindset that views this conflict entirely abstractly, to think that people care about philosophical consistency when it comes to face punching.  As if some Nazi were to punch this punk character and the punk would dust themselves off and exclaim, "gosh, well I guess I had that coming." Fuck that.  The punk would slug the Nazi right back.  Fascism in the 21st century deserves to be treated like a Jerry Springer-esque shitshow.
I agree but im so cynical about people some times I think they are just looking for excuses to be violent.  There's so many people out there who expound upon their fantasies of torturing paedophiles etc.
Allowing everyone to have these kind of important but unaccessible conversations through your proxy is the greatest gift you can give to the world.
Great video!  Here's my conclusion:  Punch the fascists who are out and proud, dogwhistle genocide, and have power/platforms to misinform the public.  Talk to, debate, and understand the people who aren't the aforementioned, but voted for fascists.  Atrocities won't be directly ordered by Trump. He won't decree that all Muslims be rounded up and executed because he doesn't have to. Through non-violently signing a piece of paper that opens up loopholes for oppression to happen, he'll lead us into fascism. He'll inadvertently kill millions over the course our lifetimes by simply giving tax cuts to the rich - an act not inherently violent.   Your framing of this argument was right, the moment Trump literally has his boot on a minority's face will be too late, but that day will never come. Instead we'll be so deluded into believing democracy exists when it really doesn't (such is the case now) that we'll keep our option of violence forever shelved - and the GOP know that. They'll be safe knowing they can always demonize any violent uprising as counter to what "Our Forefathers Stood For (TM)".
If you can imagine your anti-fascist character combined with the part of your bourgeois liberal who wants to talk with people, that's where I am. I am okay with punching the actual Nazis but with no reservations, I think it's important to talk with people who are being led down that path. I think there's a line where certain people are poisoning any actual rational discourse and their speech is inherently violent because the endgame of what they are advocating is genocide. I literally do not give a shit what happens to these people.  That said, I don't think it should be made legal. The laws are there for totally different situations; in an everyday situation, there are no Nazis. It's like hate speech. I do not believe in making it illegal, but I do believe our institutions should not respect it as free speech - you know why? I do not believe any combinations of progressive, liberal or conservative lawmakers capable of passing a law that has enough nuance to properly legislate it without overreaching. In the case of hate speech, most likely things that are not hate speech would get outlawed. In the case of Nazi punching, most likely things that are not Nazi punching would become allowed. For instance, the punching of ignorant right-leaning people who don't believe they support these extreme ideologies - people who can be talked to.  Some laws work in 99.999999999% of applications and should not be changed because of this, but the moral thing to do is sometimes in conflict with those laws. The person who is willing to punch a Nazi must be willing to accept that they have broken the law to do so and that there may very well be legal consequences. The law is there to create and accommodate a peaceful society and that should be everyone's endgame.  So I have a nuanced view as well, though I lean closer to your anti-fascist.  I do think it was clever strawmanning both of them, though. It illustrates the lack of nuance people are willing to accept pretty well, and I think that nuance in situations involving where violence is acceptable is probably one of the more important places to apply it.
Your points are so self-aware and intelligent. Bravo!
I feel like in the first half of the video you got the points of the radleft but they kinda weakened in the second.
Ok a couple of points.  That Hitler quote comes from Mein Kampf, which was published in 1925. If he was being honest, he was literally handing his enemies the method by which to beat him, before he rose to power. He's not a Hollywood style Bond villain.   We know from situations in the UK, like the Battle of Cable street. Meeting Fascism with violence, especially unprovoked violence. Increases sympathy for them.  My last point. In the 90's the BNP (a supremacist party) was rising in power. The BBC banned them from appearing on their channels. It didn't stop their rise. In the end the BBC had to remove the ban, in U.K. law you can not show partisan bias in the media in this fashion. So against public opinion, the BBC invited the BNP leader to appear of the acclaimed political show Question Time.   His disgusting views were so abhorrent, the BNP lost all credibility and the vast majority of support they had received.  It is true to say that sunlight is the best disinfectant for bad ideas.
Although the discussion is interesting and brings up how liberals shouldn't try to fight each other rather than separate themselves into groups (Which was pretty bad for the election); it doesn't really get around to what we do about the rise of Nazi-ism.   The alt-right is ever-shifting and opportunistic, so attempts to debate or ignore never come off as a fruitful but for another way for the alt-right to promote themselves. Look at everything with Milo Y...when he's denied the chance to talk he just says that the liberals are ruining discourse at colleges. When he's allowed to talk, he openly bullies and targets a transexual student to mock them like a comedy bit. Both sides are disingenuous and dangerous.   So what do you when dealing with examples towards that? I imagine there's a really complicated way we have to address and handle modern day Nazism/Facism...but I don't know where we exactly start other than protesting.
We're gonna do one thing, and one thing only.  Punchin' nahtsees.
This and T1J's video do a good job roughly representing my own perspective.  In T1J's he indicates his apathy over the well being of the Nazi piece of shit but thinks the normal channel of legality should remain enforced (IE if the Nazi Puncher is caught, he probably should get an assault charge) and he doesn't advocate violence, he just doesn't really condemn this particular instance.  This is sort of how I feel in a way.  I also however feel a similar split for the more extreme "liberal" and "anarchist" perspectives. Where I want to say "Punching Nazi's doesn't help our cause idiots!" and also say "We might have to punch some Nazi's, they never want to listen to reason and they might try and fucking kill us all!"  Much internal conflict.
Well, the punk ones have a great point when saying that, whether it is possible or not, we can't rely on people's comprehension of subjects or listening skills that may lead them to an epiphany.   I identify myself more with the burgeois one since I like quietly pondering on problems and ellaborate sollutions as an intellectual exercise, but I can see the incisive tones of these ideas and how they might reverberate on my welfare or anyone who has it worse than me. The problem lays on the fact that discovering good moral standards may be interesting and necessary by itself, but from the pragmatic view it's just a tool. Thought is subserviant to action. Therefore, it is ok to put into action immoral  means to reach a goal as matching our personal moral belief system with the legal system in place, but that means jumping the gun and using violence in a way different from self defense, which is inherently immoral.  I am of the moralist thinker type who likes to play with possibilities and being somewhat "problematic" for reappropiation's sake, but I'm also part of the potential damnified, so I'm quite lost too. (Not that I wouldn't face this internal dilemma if I was completely privileged, but I also have to deal with deeply ingrained fear for the fact that the outcome of this wave of fascism may actually change my life conditions.)  So thanks for presenting such an impartial depiction of those archetypes, this discussion is not only "a thing", bit we should spread awareness of it in order to form a cohesive left resistance.
LEAVE SPENCER ALONE!!!
About half way through, bourgeois liberal's sound seemed to un-sync with the video. It really threw me. But maybe I am just sensitive to that. Anyway, it seems like America has been slowly moving towards this point when these neo-nazi ideals actually get "serious" public exposure instead of the ridicule they used to receive. And now e have to decide how we are going to react to them. I am not feeling sorry for Richard Spencer but he along with his sympathizers are also playing this for all its propaganda worth to show how intolerant the left is. I too lean towards the bourgeois response.
I'm sorry contra, I don't agree. If we don't shock-coller Nazism, we give them a platform, we've already learned from history what can happen if we give fascists a platform, this isn't like the other extremist groups bred in the USA we've given a platform to that have bred detrimental thinking, this is something that has happened before and can be prevented, we don't need to give them a voice/soap box to stand on.
He did Nazi that coming!
Excellent framing device. Arguing aposing viewpoints with myself is like, my fav. albeit a bit cathartic. I think we could all do with a little more, or maybe a little less, catharsis these days..but I havent made up my mind.
This was a good argument from both sides, but in the end I still say no, just punch Nazis in their stupid fascist faces. Because there's nothing to debate with. When you start advocating the idea of genocide you are no longer just bringing forth a political idea, you are making a active threat. And I do not debate with threats, I neutralize them by any means necessary which includes, but not limited to punching a Nazi in his stupid, racist, fascist face when he goes off spouting his shit on the streets.
You keep getting better. Great video.
You articulated my ambivalent feelings toward Spencer getting punched much better than I could have.
The solution is easy. You punch Nazis but you also pay the legal penalty for assault. Punching Nazis is and at this point should be illegal. However if you have the opputunity to punch one you do it and you gleefully do the time. Break the law and punch them but respect the law by accepting the punishment. Society stays civil and Nazis get punched. Win win
Political correctness should never be endorsed as an existence sociological phenomena. There is just case by case reasoning, or faulty reasoning as the case may be.
I think this video pretty much sums up my attitude towards the whole incident: I feel conflicted.  My instincts align a bit more with the bourgeois liberal but the punk radical makes some pretty good points.  But one point that I wish the punk radical addressed was, what does punching Nazis in the street actually accomplish?  Is there more to it than a nice sense of catharsis?  What's the goal here, to make Nazis feel as afraid for their physical safety as much as they make marginalised groups fear for their own?  Is this a sound strategy for anti-fascists?
This video was fantastic. However, I think to do the punk justice you would need to mention systemic violence. The nazi takes advantage of already existing systemic violence to further harm marginalized people. The anarchist throws a punch. It is a liberal conceit to assume the punch is more violent than the pulpit. For someone who sees violence as more than just direct physical harm  the answer to "Which is more violent" isn't obvious.
Did you just casually toss in all the insecurities you feel about running this youtube channel?
Amazing glorious video. I'm not a south parker but I swear this is the first time in my life I see someone actually trying to represent 2 points without making a caricature. That siad, I'm on the crossdressing contrapoints side. When people (used) to say "violence is not the answer" it's not because violence is inmoral (It isn't), It's because violence does not fucking work. It's easy to think that punching nazis is awesome when your priviliged commie ass isn't going to deal with the consequences. You can jack off all day to La Revolucion or another of your dumb fantasies but the truth is that actions have consequences and when those consequences affect other people it's not about being right or wrong it's about not fucking up everything. Yes, in an ideal world nobody would have to treat nazis as just another viewpoint but this is not that world. The left didn't create these nazis but its feeding them while it starves.
tag yourself I'm a punk radical
I relate to punkContra in how I feel but hear what bourgeoisContra says about reaching over to the right. I feel the need to try to and empathise with people of opposing views who are willing to listen in order to possibly change minds, but am massively unequipped to do it myself, ha. I'm kind of an arsehole unable to be friends with anyone who disagrees on any issue. But we don't have to be friends to be united in what we hope to achieve, and while nazis cannot be reasoned with, moderates and reactionaries can. This is all dodging the spencer case somewhat. Basically I don't see it as an all or nothing symposium on political violence. We're gonna need balls to survive and show unambiguous extremists that we're ready to put up a fight - to which punching a nazi is a decent start. Silencing, no-platforming and for lack of a better word violence is a topic I don't have an all-encompassing answer for other than a cop-out 'sometimes.'
Depends if you want the rule of law to be a weapon or a shield.
bourgeois contrapoints won
If you agree with the bourgeois liberal, please show me one time fascism has been defeated by ideas and not smashing the people who threaten to implement it.
I guess the real problem here is that no one know where free speech ends and hate speech begins. Kind of like the dillema of extending human rights to violent criminals.   Should we really give someone the kinds of rights that they denied someone else simply because they are human? I'd say that this question is very relevant to this video.
yes but punching people who like 4chan memes is completely acceptable
What is the one thing that I understood after watching this?  It's complicated.
I actually thought this was an interesting video in many ways. I will say that I have several minds on this- My initial reaction to Nazis getting punched was the typical liberal anti violence position that violence is wrong in all situations. Upon actually meditating on it, I realized that nazism isn't rational, it isn't a position you can genuinely debate and while I still have that gut feeling of "punching people you disagree with is wrong", I also feel like this isn't one of those situations where this applies necessarily. So my general position is- do I agree, not really, do I feel bad, absolutely not.   I think one bit of this that I do think is good is that most people who voted Trump aren't these mindless racist bigots who don't know any better. I wouldn't have felt that way until I actually spoke to people who voted for Trump and saw that their reasons for voting for him were so alien to the ones I had heard speaking in specifically left leaning spaces. I think that this is the first time in my life time where Nazism could potentially gain traction and it's already been gaining traction in Europe and so these aren't really just a bunch of complete dolts screaming into a void. In fact us viewing them as extremists screaming into a void is probably one of the big reasons why things are the way they are. I've had to kinda realize that there was this complacency many people felt when it came to a lot of the ideologies we're not having to fight against. We all thought creationism and anti science rhetoric was just so fringe and so strange. So not even going to make head way that we didn't really take it seriously. Now we're dealing with the reality that they've been working for decades to get to the position they are now and we really haven't. We really haven't taken these "fringe" ideas seriously and so they festered.   So in short, I really do think that there's a lot of nuance that needs to be had in conversations between "both" sides. I think that "liberals" (lol I'm not a liberal, but okay) need to start listening to "conservatives" (lol, that doesn't describe all right leaning politics, but okay) and really figure out what each other feels how they feel. Speaking to people who voted Trump actually really allowed me to realize that these are people who felt ignored, discarded and with the amplification of other conversations, completely forgotten. And while we can back away and say that this makes zero sense- there is some truth to it in that, these weren't people anyone tried to reach out to. These weren't people who anyone tried to speak to or reason with because they already dismissed them as irrational and wrong. And I think dismissal on both sides is going to lead to a lot of resentment that really doesn't get us anywhere.   I feel like fascism is one of those things that we know more about and should fight against because of it. We don't need to repeat the past. We know better now.
Yay, Trixie and Bruce
I  love this
I think we have to do a better job of talking to the right, I think you're correct in that regard. One of my favorite YouTubers is Trae Crowder because he can fucking do it. I think we need more bulldog-ish types on the left who tell it like it is because a lot of leftist talk is bogged down in jargon that regular ass people don't really get. A way I think we could do this is get some really cool ass dudes talking about some of the issues people think are namby pamby like toxic masculinity. Folks like John Cena and The Rock can go a seriously long way in normalizing less masculine stuff. In a phrase, come at them from a familiar place. Instead of going full on "masculinity is a construct" have like, Steve Austin be like, "Austin 3:16 says you can cry and still whoop ass!"   At the same time, I think the left generally needs to be more cognizant of intersectional issues. There's an idea among brocialists, manarchists, and TERFs  that talking about certain social issues within their circles is divisive and "weakens the cause" of stuff like feminism, anarchism, and socialism. However, how are minority groups supposed to wanna be with us on the left if our overwhelming message is "your issues matter less to us"?
I think the most important issue here in this discussion is, how are we going to prevent (predominantly) young white males from being radicalized by neo-nazi/hard-right groups? Because I haven't a clue, honestly.
That ending was like the liberal version of a Fox News panel.
God your videos are so good jesus christ
In my opinion (just my opinion), I think both ideologies are potentially valid ways of dealing the fascism. Diplomacy should always be prioritized, but I think it's wise to keep violence as a last resort. I would sincerely hope that it doesn't come to that, but I think we've seen throughout history that violence sometimes proves necessary.
>leftists shooting each other over how best to defeat the right the most realistic ending ever Great video, but I have one gripe - it's from my experience, so it's anecdotal, but most of the people who specifically identify as commies are tankies who hate identity politics as much as right - wingers, people who say shit like ""stalin did nothing wrong" or ""kulaks deserved it" or "holodomor never happened, and if it did they deserved it". If it sounds eerily similiar to nazi apologists - yes, it's very worrisome
I just wish you included the fact that, throughout history, communism has been inherently violent.  More-so then fascism by total kill count.
This video was excellently written.
Lmao, this was funny and a lot of the criticisms of the Left as a whole is completely true. But tbh immmmmmm Commie Contrapoints( hope to be seeing him more often lol).
Not gonna lie, Communist Contra made a pretty compelling case.
9:30 lol those aren't right wing feelings. those are non-regressive feelings. not everyone who isn't a violence - preaching Marxist SJW is on the right. opposition to political correctness and being tired of always being blamed for being a white male CAN be feelings, but they can also be thoughts (as in based on reasons). if they are thoughts, then you shouldn't necessarily dismiss them as being just something invalid that pops up that you can't control.
I agree with both of them.=8)-DX
Shit. I can't fucking afford it, but now I have to send you money. THANKS, contra points.
4:07 lol it's OK for anyone to tell anyone what to think. you don't need a certain number of oppression points before your ideas can be considered.   also, it's not OK to punch Richard Spenser because he wasn't assaulting anyone and we should use our words to discredit him.   -xoxo, an mmigrant woman
This video gives me feelings, and I want to know how you managed to get cameras in my head
They should just kiss and make up.
plz stop making fun of antifa punks I feel I'm being personally attacked
There is no rise of white nationalism.
That is a strawman of a communist. -.-
I don't think punching or any other form persecution people is ever justified based on the ideology or beliefs they hold, even if the ideology is as horrendous as Nazi's ones. We need to hold ourselves to the principle that accountability of individuals' actions and not their beliefs. This is not because we expect our adversaries to extend the same courtesy to us at a later time. It is because we, the people who are on the right side of this issue, would not punch or persecute another group of people just because they hold with ideologies or beliefs we unjustly deem unworthy or dangerous. The principle is there to hold us in check if we are wrong about our perception.
i want your black heels theyre beautiful.
"you look like your mom dropped you off at a green day concert in 2003." savage.
the difference between communism and fascism atm is that fascism has a national platform, whereas communism does not.
I feel like you made a video of my own internal dialogue about this topic. This has been on my mind lately and I go back and forth on what is the correct approach, and I still don't know. But thanks for your video, Contra!
BASH THE FASH
communist contrapoints was right <3
Well this cut closer to home than I was expecting.
Its this line of thinking which Made your "black neiborghoods" so violent.
This is a fucking masterpiece. I'm in awe, contra. Thank you.
I'm cool with punching nazis. Can't talk your way outta facsim. Also the original Nazi party was defeated through violence and extreme tactics. If you voted for the Nazi party you weren't allowed to leave the country, if you were a low level member of the Nazi party you received 5 years in jail, if you were a mid level member of the Nazi party you received 10 years in jail, if you were a high level member you were killed.  If the allied forces believed that you were still a Nazi sympathizer, you were forbidden from holding office and were legally banned from any job higher then menial labor. The allied forces also burned books and paintings. They destroyed monuments and museums. The allied forces took over the German education system and rewrote the books to make Nazis villains.  Now you might say, "Thats horrible! Those are thought crimes! They're just like the nazis!" And the Allied forces would agree. They were very aware at all levels that their behavior mimicked Nazi tactics. But no one cared because they saw the camps, they saw the bodies, they saw the destruction. So they kept on burning books. It took awhile but sixteen years after the war was over, Nazism had been basically scrubbed from existence in Germany.  Thats what it takes to eradicate Nazism. You can't talk your way out of it. It takes constant extreme pressure from an organized force to get rid of it.
Oh my god, the editing in this video is freaking awesome! Love you still! :)
"You look like your mom dropped you off at a Green Day concert from 2003."  That was perfect.
:D you painted us with very dim colors but... what can I say. Great video! Good points, good contrapoints!
I felt sorry for the guy getting punched. In all seriousness, having been involved in lots of fights I didn't start with drunken wankers desperate for violence, people who assault strangers with no provocation deserve everything they get, especially if they happen to get shot.  The radical guy just pushes me more towards the right, who aren't frothing at the mouth and screeching. Sick of it all, to be honest. Completely sick of all of this bullshit. The left wing will be killed by these people, and we'll have to live in a right-wing fantasy world.
Wonderfully Kierkegaardian.  Love the dialectic between the two sides in the video. I have to admit, your two characters here have basically been the two sides of my own brain (at times) when it comes to dealing with fascists. As it stands, I'm about 70% on the side of dress-you and 30% on the side of beanie-you.  What I think _both_ characters get wrong however – along with much of the left and centre – is they believe there has to be some sort of absolute deontological rule about whether it's okay to punch fascists or not. Neither are willing to ask the nuanced question of whether it may be appropriate in some contexts and not appropriate in others – depending on the consequences, immediate and long-term.  Maybe punching Spencer once or twice has the good effect of letting the alt-right keyboard warriors know there's repercussions for this shit, but making a habit out of it is probably counterproductive.
This is a lot of thinking for a Sunday morning. -sips tea-
Amazing. I bet the editing job on this was a huge pain in the dick.
But why are they both shooting in the same direction at the end?
This is amazing, thank you
2017 just started and Jontron admits to nationalistic sympathies. It will be a weird year.
-fascism -organized fascism -violence -organized violence -anti-fascism -organized anti-fascism  Interesting video, as always. But... This particular case was pretty much a random guy punching another random guy, his political opponent. Nice, but is it useful? It may even be counterproductive. In a man to man situation, a debate could be a successful anti-fascist tactic. Unorganized violence against unorganized fascism is useless, arguably detrimental even. But unorganized anything is not a problem, is not an issue. Problem emerges when fascism becomes organized. Unorganized anti-fascist methods are useless against organized fascism. Are liberals determined enough to use violence against organized fascism? No. Why is left (or "left")  always lagging behind? Unorganized fascism is irrelevant. Unorganized anti-fascism is useless, as well as unorganized violence. "Punk radical's" "street action/activism", when dealing with organized fascism, is just as inadequate as the "bourgeois liberal's" peaceful methods and debates. When fascism becomes organized, the only successful method is organized violence applied by organized left. The left, and by left I mean anarchists and communists, should move from activism mode to organization mode. Cheers!
Brilliant. You put the two sides of myself that constantly fight over these things into one video and represented them both amazingly well <3
Everytime you post a video, it's like Christmas.
The more you go into the emotional space of "the right" you see things that make you despise it more. Especially the closer you can get to an emotional connection to some of the ideas you see how truly dangerous and infuriating it all is.
This are quickly becoming my favourite channel
Man if you're actually asking people "on the left" in say, the middle east, to treat their opponents the way they treat them you are asking for a lot of blood and torture.
Take my money!
"You look like your mom dropped you off at a Green Day concert in 2003" XD
My problem with the discourse on the left about a nazi getting punched is one that you didn't really bring up (I get your video isn't really about that), which is that I feel the huge negative reaction on the left to even minor violence actually serves to continue the delegitimization of left wing thought and action.   If the left was, on the whole or even in a substantial minority, going out and committing violence against the right, then that would be worrying and something to be condemned, however they're not. One guy got punched. Yet opinion formers on the left feel the need to condemn this, because any violence is impure. This plays into the hands of the right, who wish to portray leftists as a bunch of violent young thugs who want to destroy joy. Condemn or approve, the conversation is still about violence, as it always is whenever the left do anything.   A better response would be to ask why a tiny number of violent incidents are allowed to define the discourse about a large scale and mostly peaceful protest movement, and to examine the way in which any left wing protest is seen as an attack on the legitimate order, and thus tied to the forces of chaos.
lovely ^^
I also have that hat👍
Terrific ep. I agree with FemContra, but the other side made a better case than I've seen elsewhere.
I've never seen someone play devil's advocate against themselves so hard.
White males, right that up there with liberal and nazis as the most despised groups in the current cultural zieghiest.  THe most frustrating thing about social justice they seem to think intersectionality is a justification of identity politics which is genuinely politics.  Ironically it really not, it kind of funny how an explicitly anti ip pol concept got co-opted as a justification of id pol.  the real divide here on the left is the divided between individualist leftism and collectivist leftism. While collectivising around on discrete cause is some time needed, like in the case of workers rights, those are more short term agreement to level collective power for limited duration with a set and well defined end goal.the class conscious thing is importantly only in that classes be aware of where they lie economically and what power dynamic and tactics are needed at those particular level of play. But class unity while more possible than say racial unity it or any other form of demographic unity is more viable,  it is still folly.    the problem is with the modern left is it is trying to make collective blocks that reliable do as directed unqualified. rather than short term social contracts to get specific tasks done which require movement. IMHO the civil rights ares circa 1965ish was the rubicon where the left started to cross from specific collective action with well defined goals and win states,  to vague social movements tied together only by shared usually immutable and trivial characteristics such as race, sex or whatever. (Unless your are going to argue for Race realism or that sex as characteristic matter way more than they actually do [there are sex differences but they are way smaller than what the people that harped about them say they are.] )   it how you end up with WHITE MALE being a thought terminating cliche that does actually move and arguemetn forward because the implicit assumption is that by virtue of being white and male white men share some inextricable link between the white men at the top and the white men at the bottom and leverage that to their best advantage with the white men at the top looking out for the white men at the bottom &  middle  & vice versa toward the top in a way they don't for women (objectively false, gynocentrism while vastly overstated as an effect by those who often bring it up is is a real thing but is a (very) soft force in society not some kind of overriding imperative).  Basically  the collectivist left is assuming by virtue of being in set white and set male this implies things about the SEC and other social benefits that i would argue are like 80-90% economic class related than race or sex/gender related.
I hink both people in this video are valid and valuable, and there really is no need to be fighting. I think it's good that there is a multitude of tactics fighting for the same purpose.
A lot of people can't be argued with, though it is still important to try. However when it comes to people who straight up call for genocide any kind of violence is really just self defense.
"wtf i hate richard spencer now"  said no alt-righter after hearing about that punch
hey I can't watch the Why "Wh!te N@tionali$m is Wrong" video
(Originally a response to someone that I lost in the shuffle, so please pardon any disjointedness)  Don't think of it in terms of stopping fascism, so much as bringing a  modicum of comfort to those most at risk to it's practice. A lot of  people have had trouble sleeping since election night, and the growth of  such hyper conservatism has broached on normalizing many of the  elements of Nazi culture and ideals.   The reason that Punch was something to, if not celebrate, revel in for a time, is because it acted as a sharp wake up call for those of us living in fear. A reminder that they are not a lone, that Nazis are not normal, and that should they be in a position of danger, that there are those willing to stand up in arms with them.    All that being said though, I absolutely loved this upload. You found a really clever way to cover a whole lot of ground, that validated and criticized two separate and divisive points of view, and don't think I didn't notice what you did with that hammer. This could have gone so wrong, but you thoroughly pulled it off. This could not have been easy to put together in a week, but you did, and it lead to your best piece yet. This is a new level, well done!
Brilliant.
5:50 was the hottest thing I've ever seen.... I'm a straight male.... I mean I think so at least but phewwww
There's hope at last.
I do think your vids are pretty weird. However, I am subscribed.   This one in particular made me question " how do we defeat/overcome fascism?" . As a military guy, I think that violence is nessesary some times ( however very few ). I would like to see how you keep at this question . I would like to see how you can "fight" fascism without violince....there has got to be a way right?
I like the dialogue format to explore the two different sides of ideas. Ancient Greece style retro. :D Also the jab about being dropped off at a Green Day concert in 2003 had me dying. My own personal opinion is that we are becoming more civilized as our society develops and violent protest instead of peaceful protest takes us steps backwards. I fear it is part of the human condition to be violent for violence sake and giving justifications to those urges only exacerbates the problem. Some would say that is a slippery slope fallacy but in human nature it is very real. Clans fighting clans and tribes fighting tribes for hundreds if not thousands of years is a very real thing. Also justification of violence is cyclical. Most of the time there isn't a pin point begetting of violence but confirmation bias will lead each side into thinking they were the one wronged first and find self righteousness in committing acts of violence only to forget and be appalled when the other side retaliates. A call to violence especially as a pre-emptive strike of a percieved threat is only going to start the snowball rolling down the mountain. Just hope it doesn't turn into an avalanche.
Reminded me of _Moonlighting_ at one point.
Mommy! Daddy!  Please stop! ;__;
Ever felt like you've been cheated?    Read more
Trump was talking up violence for fucking ages & nothing was done.  Police even arrested victims instead of perpetrators, let alone trump himself.  BTW, here is another way you can fight fascism:  Go have a read of the NY Taxi Workers Alliance statement on Trumps Muslim Ban:  "Professional drivers are over 20 times more likely to be murdered on the job than other workers. By sanctioning bigotry with his unconstitutional and inhumane executive order banning Muslim refugees from seven countries, the president is putting professional drivers in more danger than they have been in any time since 9/11 when hate crimes against immigrants skyrocketed.  Our 19,000-member-strong union stands firmly opposed to Donald Trump's Muslim ban. As an organization whose membership is largely Muslim, a workforce that's almost universally immigrant, and a working-class movement that is rooted in the defense of the oppressed, we say no to this inhumane and unconstitutional ban. We know all too well that when government programs sanction outright Islamophobia, and the rhetoric of hate is spewed from the bully pulpit, hate crimes increase and drivers suffer gravely. Our Sikh and other non-Muslim brown and black members also suffer from anti-Muslim violence.  Today, drivers are joining the protest at JFK Airport in support of all those who are currently being detained at the airport because of Trump's unconstitutional executive order. Drivers stand in solidarity with refugees coming to America in search of peace and safety and with those who are simply trying to return to their homes here in America after traveling abroad. We stand in solidarity with all of our peace-loving neighbors against this inhumane, cruel, and unconstitutional act of pure bigotry.  So "punk radicals" & "bourgeois liberals", give some comrades your support.  You can donate to them & maybe help them out in other ways if you are in New York.
Thats the kind of stuff I like from you :)
Three, possibly four quotes per Leftist/Centre-Left video. This channel does not respond to inquiry. :^)  _"I believe in the brotherhood of man, all men, but I don't believe in the brotherhood with anybody who doesn't want brotherhood with me. I believe in treating people right, but I'm not going to waste my time trying to treat somebody right who doesn't know how to return the treatment."_ -Malcolm X.  _"The state calls its own violence, law; but that of the individual, crime."_ -Max Stirner  _"If this is the price to be paid for an idea, then let us pay. There is no need of being troubled about it, afraid or ashamed. This is the time to boldly say, "Yes, I believe in the displacement of this system of injustice by a just one; I believe in the end of starvation, exposure, and the crimes caused by them; I believe in the human soul regnant over all laws which man has made or will make; I believe there is no peace now, and there will never be peace, so long as one rules over another; I believe in the total disintergration and dissolution of the principle and practice of authority; I am an Anarchist, and if for this you condemn me, I stand ready to recieve your condemnation"._ -Voltairine de Cleyre.  This debate is entirely on the wrong premise. The question is not about the _moral argument_ to punch a Fascist--whom has been emboldened by the right of Trumps presidency; but rather, it should be positioned as the right to judge the moral character--from which it is virtuous to punch a Fascist, but is not virtuous to be in defence of his punishment.  To all that condemn an action to show disdain for (intolerable) views of those that espouse the right to ethnic cleanse - deserve nothing less than the right to be in the shekels of the beholder, the _Fascist._  Though; violence is to be used sparingly.
Mass approval of Nazi punching + Trump is a fascist = approximately 1/4 of the country should be attacked. Therefore, civil war.
I think you're absolutely one of the best people on the "other side" (i hate to say it like that but you get my point" and you really put out your points very well, i'm not too much on the "LUL XD GET REKT ANTI SJW" side anymore, but it is still nice to see shit like this.
You should do a video on the differences between modernism and post-modernism!
I ship it
Fascism is defined as an authoritarian and intolerant ideology, so it's the left that are currently the fascists.
On the one hand, my pacifist liberal brain tells me that open discussion should be permitted and even encouraged, up until the point where fascist politics become an actualy physical threat for minority groups.  On the other hand, there is gland in my head that releases endorphins when nazis get punched in the face.
Don't have any power is very inaccurate as Bannon is now on the NSC
Truth be told I never really cared for the nazi getting punched, found it greatly amusing but understood to an extent that it wouldn't help anything in the long run or short run or whatever run. But shouldn't groups like these be considered terrorist? Don't they too support genocide and death among a certain group of people? No matter how "civil" they are?   Cause of it were people associating themsleves with ISIS going out there recruiting, or whatever. I'm pretty sure folks wouldn't even blink when they get shut down or even arrested. I mean I'm pretty sure most of us would punch a member of Isis.    It could be that I'm just saying shit out of my ass, but I sense a sort of hypocrisy with the way Americans treat different types terriosts or folks with rather racist/xenophobic beliefs.
your titles need some anti-aliasing
seeing you in typical man clothes makes me uncomfortable
I reeaaallyy feel you on this one. I feel like I can relate to you and your videos because I'm so empathetic it makes me uncomfortable as hell. I can understand how someones thoughts and feelings can lead towards certain values. Even if they're sick and bigoted. There's totally a little place in my heart that does have the same fears many alt-righters have. I feel gross for it sometimes but I feel I connect to people a lot better that way, and others in my life have appreciated that. My feelings on this specific topic shift day by day but I generally still stand by the idea that we can improve democracy and can achieve a lot more if more people mobilize and take direct action. While I found the punch funny, I don't see how it helps and I do worry about repercussions, and whether the left is going to misuse the label "fascist" or "nazi" and go around punching anyone that's right wing. In the grand scheme of things the punch didn't do anything really, so I'm gonna try my best to concentrate on something I know for sure helps.
Interesting video. Shows the complex emotions and values in tension when confronting the totalitarianism of fascism when espoused in liberal democracies.
This back and forth with the same voices is like watching Oblivion gameplay
Really good video. It's so relevant too, because everything you were saying as the antifa side of you, the pro nazi punching side, is what I've seen people on the left say. I've held the points of view the other side of you has said in opposition to those arguments, and you encapsulated what the dialog that I see around the issue to a T. I like how you don't end on picking a side, and instead portray different sides of you which are arguing it out in your head, which is interesting because it shows an understanding of the paradoxical nature of this whole issue. Very impressed, once again.
I hope that horrible aliasing was on purpose.
too sexy for yourself. 30% of my viewing you is the eye candy. don't worry though, there's a solid 70% of intellectual love :D
I love you!❤ I have learned soo much from you!
Also this whole inner debate is very recognisable to me. It surprises me how much I tend to flip-flop between the two sides on a month to month basis (though probably less extreme). I notice myself switching sides mid-conversation with somebody, its really weird how this works.
excellent video nykytyne. You detail quite well some of the reasons why I've become disenfranchised with the left.
I think I love you.
I agree with my comrade
So is this your own official either/or?
I have no idea how accurate this is, but I always end up feeling like a strong left needs a coalition of both the radical punks and the bourgeois liberals. The liberals are able to reach out to those across the political aisle, while the radicals form the strong, principled core of the left.
I agree with Contrapoints that we simply look dumb punching people and the uninitiated will see it as the left being the violent ones or say they're against free speech.
Is that The Hallucinogenic Toreador in the back?
Stunning! This is a really important analysis of the issues and the ambiguity is really effective.
The difference is that fascism runs on a different mode of discourse than other political opinions. Even extreme conservatism operate under the presupposition that in a pluralistic democracy there are competing ideas and movements that contribute points and try to win over support, generally but not exclusively by peaceful means. And at the end of the day the Christian conservatives recognize that libertarians, democrats, liberals, socialists, and populists are also trying to do the same thing. Fascism operates on a different mode of discourse, presuming and demanding unanimity. It's not that fascists can't tolerate dissent, it's that they believe pluralistic democracies are bad because they force groups of the people to remain silent in the face of the majority and they believe that by having a unitary state led by a singular dictator it can be mitigated. Fascist parties only exist insofar as they need to incubate in pluralistic democracies to gain power.
I heard that the best way of argumentation is finding the strongest argument of the opponent and beating it. You just found the strongest arguments of two factions within your own side and beat them. Really beautiful.
dis be my favorite contra... so far
Is it just me or does the audio, at certain points, seem out of sync by like a few milliseconds? It's mainly after the 6-minute mark. I'm hoping it's just the app being weird now.
Man, you really do like to mess up your own appartment for our entertainment don't you?  And do you do outfit requests? Would you were a gala dress if I asked really politely? This might sound like a strange request but I'm a little drunk so I'm asking it anyway.  Anyway, like the video. Punch a nazi or don't punch a nazi, the only way fascism will ever be defeated is if the lefts gets its shit together. Same shit here in the Netherlands, another fascist with yellow hair is about to win big in our elections and we're tearing each others eyes out about whether a national holiday aimed at children is racist or not. I sure hope we'll hear the trains leaving over our own constant outrage at everything.
This video is everything.
I liked watching you argue with yourself. It was a good video. Success!
this might be your best video yet.  Really enjoyed it.
Oh, yes. This is Everything in a nutshell.
Thank god. It is really scary how many people on the left have sided with the thug instead of the victim (Spencer), because of ideological reasons (specially here on youtube).  If violence against Spencer is justified, then violence against Commies is justified. If violence against Commies is justified...   It is a really dangerous slippery slope and forgets basic human decency and human rights.
Liberal values and rational and measured argument have failed. The time for punching is now.
I severely dislike the assertion that one would only condemn uncalled for violence if they're in a position of privilege (white, male, etc). It completely disregards the fact that not everyone who isn't a cishet white male thinks or acts the same way. It this was a question of whether Nazis are bad, you'd get a homogeneous "yes" answer for obvious reasons due to the fact that Nazis have posed a major threat to certain groups in the past and will pose a threat if put into power, and therefore opposing them is a matter of self-preservation. However, whether or not to be violent towards them while unprovoked is a wholly different matter as I doubt you can punch the Nazi out of someone, AND one would be setting a dangerous precedent which would lead to violent retaliation from white supremacists in the future, which could actually do more harm to people of colour than if they were just left alone to begin with. I also find it strange how people are so happy someone punched a Nazi, as if it somehow makes the world a better place or changes anything but the aggressor's criminal record.
Daddy 😩👌💦💯😤👅
LOVE ME BACK
Honestly you've become one of my favourite content creators as of recently. Always amazing production value and great research. I feel like each video raises the bar for the next. We don't agree on everything, but who does, and I appreciate the way that you vocalise your opinions. Amazing stuff. Wish more people put as much effort into political commentary as yourself and hbomberguy.
Pre-watching: I'm most disturbed by the people that act like there's no moral wrong in punching someone because they're a neo-nazi. 4 minutes in: Yeah, this is pretty accurate. 9 minutes in: I don't know about the 3/4 thing... Is that a Queen poster in the background? Fuck yeah. 10:38 My experience is that the people who's like "punching nazis? Fuck yeah" is the ones that want to exterminate nazis with memes and jokes. 10:50 And that's the point when I gave a like to this video. Post Watch: Thank you.
This video pretty well sums up my internal debate over Nazi punching. I loved the new format as well. I think you pulled it off entirely.
This was an amazing video. Thank you. It perfectly encapsulates my feeling of ambiguity about this. Amazing.
Genuinely great video. I appreciate how you're able to present the depth of hot-topic issues in such an entertaining way. It's a refreshing thing to see on YouTube in 2017.
Well this summed up my Twitter feed over the past week. Except this actually had some kind of consensus.
Huge compliment on making an argument against yourself with good points on both sides. Writing something truly ambiguous and still not pulling punches on either side is hard (Pun intended)
this was greeaaat, i loved hearing the good points on both sides and i know people exactly like the two characters, to a tee
Embrace Communism!!!!!!!!!!!!!!1
I do like this - FB is riddled with just these type of conversations....:)
As always you're the best there is at what you do. If anyone wants to hear from my slimy Belgian, waflle-face how to stop fascism, we have a lovely thing called the 'cordon sanitair'. It wouldn't work in America, but it's pretty decent at keeping fascists out of government.
very funny and accurate (in terms of the arguments not trying to pick sides lol)
Outstanding video, both with the points raised and the editing seen in it!  I firmly believe that we need - need - debate and conversation across politics. We need to show people *why* trusting the far right to fix anything and capitalism to sort out our problems is a terrible idea.  But at the same time, we need to properly fight the actual fascists. I feel as though some people do not like what is being said about violence because they are worried that the term "fascist" is being thrown at anyone, and certainly just attacking Trump supporters is silly. But someone like Richard Spencer? People who are quite clearly advocating for white supremacy and "white nations"? We have to fight them.  I'm a socialist myself, and I want more people to be on the left like me. Therefore it's crucial that debate is given to the majority of people, and we save violence for the actual Nazi's.  Either way, loved the video!
that didnt escalate as quickly as i thought it would
My biggest problem with the debate is that noone has actually explained how punching is going to stop nazism? How is punching someone going to stop them anymore than arguing against them?  edit: you do realise even if he's "afraid to go outside" he can continue spreading nazism online? The internet is how these people grew and they'll happily use it again if needs be.
That moment when you can't decide between crossdressing Contrapoints and Commie Contrapoints. XD
I feel like the (non/anti)-identitarian left has resolved most of the issues the bourgeois fuck in this video brought up. If both sides are doing identity politics then things get ambiguous, but if the focus is on class conflict this ambiguity goes away. The ruling classes use identity to divide the working class, so playing their identitarian games will always lead to the working class losing.   Discourse shouldn't be a "who's more oppressed" contest.
After binge watching all of your videos, I'm slowly becoming an 'SJW'. I'll become a patron...
beaut
Man this meta video is really hawt. Quick someone make a yaoi fanfic of this. Also I love the pearls too.
The start of this video confused me so much. :P
I like this already
First! Oh wow!
