Political videos tend not to be interpreted very charitably (I know this video is going to be upheld by centrists as evidence I’ve “gone full Antifa” and by leftists that I’m a closet centrist) so I’d better state unambiguously what I think.  The character Tabby represents a lot of what I think is wrong about leftist strategy: the indifference to optics, the undisguised hostility to the ideologically impure, the sectarian nitpicking, the alternation between extreme optimism (“a communist revolution can happen in the United States and it will go well if it does”) and extreme pessimism (“neoliberal propaganda has so tight a grip on the general public that why should we even bother trying to appeal to them?”), the blurring of lines between recognizing the necessity of violence in certain situations and the aesthetic celebration of violence as an end in itself. Nevertheless I try to represent Tabby with some sympathy, and anticipate that my viewers will like her—my audience is at least 95% trans Antifa cat girls, but I hope that doesn’t prevent them from thinking about the critique.  The character Justine is a mouthpiece for a lot of my complaints about the left, and the recipient of some leftist criticisms of me (“you go to brunch with these people?”), but I chose not to represent her as an attractive alternative. She’s complacent, frivolous, and ineffective, full of derision for the way other leftists do things but not contributing much for her own part either. When a fascist comes knocking on the door it’s better to have Tabby there than Justine. To see if Justine can put her money where her mouth is we’d have to see what speech she delivers following the fascist speech. This YouTube channel is effectively my attempt to make that speech, and I can’t be the one who judges how successful it is.
Why do you try to appeal to centrists so much? Right wing aka nazis don’t deserve any attention. Punch nazis. Fuck yes communism.
What a massive faggot
Tabby is fucking awesome.   That is all.
In the end...don't we all get the bullet? In life?
Hey sounds like the bit on fascism. Don't show your power!
not gonna lie the fascist girl at the start was really fucking hot
this video is super valid and i try to keep that cool as cucumber strategy (emphasis on try). But... is kinda hard to believe thats all when there are right-winged people screaming about video game characters and and how having a black little mermaid is ruining their lives so i guess we could tackle on that too? i guess?
Tabby is utterly adorkable! I love the way she paws her way through the curtains in the beginning.
What is "negative materiality" ?
SJW like to buy both the right and the left
Looked this up after hearing about it on NPR and all I can say is A - freaking - men, sister! I’m a little tired of us being right, yet still losing the argument.
throughout this clip you essentially say that you have a public voice, and a private voice. fucking creepy and gay. glad I'm not on the "right side of history".   stop dressing like a woman you fop
No-one:  Not a soul:  Nobody, not a person, no entity in the entire universe:  CP:  [bangs on the door] Hello fellow whites,
VERY good ! Very useful. And Miles as the paradigm for the left ! Why didn't I think of that?
Why is tabby everything I need
my dick explode
Is it really propaganda if it's true?
As a social democrat, I'm in love with Tabby.
Honestly I love Tabby's aesthetic.
Only a true fascist would have Tannhauser in Eb. Spot on.
I went to Amazon to  buy your M-E Reader.  Please, please, please!
If things don't calm down soon Tabby's gonna go stabby
Why do leftists exist?
i always love the debates between tabby and justine. lots of good ideas presented through dialogue and the sexual tension really spices it up
commenting for my algorithm
Almost 2 years later and Tabby was still right about everything.
When the right claims the left can't meme, just point them to the most unexpected matrix reference of all time here. They'll be comrades in no time.
8:29   but Tabby, madelines are fucking great
5:37 ay you didn't include "enjoy yourself" by saint pepsi in your tracklist lol
This is so good
Since this video was first released, I've drifted politically over time from agreeing with Justine to agreeing with Tabby. I'm fairly uncomfortable with this development, though I still agree with Justine on points like optics and "feeling boring" ie being more difficult to understand.
I kind of wish i was having these discussions
Professional advise. It doesn't matter how left your cat girl is, if you give her fangs and ears people are going to fucking fall all over her.
This is enlightening A.F !!!!!!
contra points is a male. Debate me.
not justine's best moments! freya always makes me laugh and i lowkey love tabby (and justine!)
Does anyone else get a Tarantino vibe from this channel?
"Death to capitalism, hail Satin." is going to be something I say from now on.
We stan Justine
How do you manage to be so devastating with words while still keeping the tone?  I never seen a channel filled with so much meaningful content and cinematography. Its like your the reasonable eye in the middle of a culture storm that brings it all together without being nasty. Also, your hot sauce in any character. If I had a friend like you to BS with at work (in tech) my life would just be absolutely complete.
As a Leninist I feel called out. Lol
I love how you even made the hand gestures of the Nazi look like Trumps’
Fascists support a large, redistributive welfare state, and government control of the means of production.  Yes, they are horrible racists.  But they are also socialists.  As a first cut, Fascism is a racist form of socialism.  And they do tend to look good in black leather...
I love Tabby so much, oh my god.
I feel like Justine is the closest representation of your gender/sexuality, but nothing else not your ideals.  She wants Tabby bad, the fascist should come back while Tabby is in the bathroom, then won't leave when asked nicely by Justine, then gets a little handsy, then Tabby comes out and chases her off and then Tabby and Justine should have some angry passionate sex or at least make out a little.  I realize this may be hard to film as you don't have a parent trap style budget, but I'll just imagine it until then.  😘
In which two people who don't quite know the rules of chess attempt to play chess.
I will allways shipp Tabby and Justine. Its anny fanfiction about it out there on the internet?
I have to say the chick on the right threw the game away, should have marched her king towards the past pawn on a2 and promoted, she needs to study endgames
more Tabby!
6:35
"yaaas girl YAAAAAAAAAAS-" "i just realised that i actually hate you" i love this fuvuckign channel
"afternoon tea?! does Jeeves bring madeline cookies and fresh-sliced lemon wedges??" omg
"You're not a Communist? Why?"   "Well... the millions of dead bodies? Also, I like having... things? Like... food?"  "Yeah, but you know that Marx differentiates between..."   "Yeah, I'm sure that's of great comfort to the literal tens of millions of dead bodies."
❄❄ICE. COLD. MOTHERFUCKERS.❄❄  You gave yourself away, Contra, by spelling it correctly.
i feel like tabby represents a group leftist THEORISTS most commonly seen on the internet and not outside making changes toward their ideological ideals. actual anarchists help out their communities and feed people and put their life on the line at blockades (and often don’t even mention anarchy while doing so) instead of spurting political jargon and getting into twitter fights. most legit anarchists i’ve met don’t go on the internet much if at all. Armchair commies are a shitty subset but unfortunately the most visible image of the radical left.
2:45: well the politician and the giant corporation that run media actually does side with the left, or at best uses them as useful idiots for their own agenda.. even then they barely win these days. 3:44: that's what happens when you demand a high minimum wage, they'll outsource slave labor abroad. 4:21: bingo! and you'll never convince the left to change, instead you'll push them to something nasty to counter it.
I Love Love Loooove this. This is too perfect.
I know I'm fairly late to comment, but I think part of what holds the left back is that centrists/moderates and especially those on the far right see violence as justifiable or even non-violent when done by the state. I was talking with a friend who said he hadn't considered police arresting people and courts incarcerating them as violent actions. When I proposed that they were, he tepidly agreed but said my viewpoint was cynical. Thinking about this video and my experiences, it really is an uphill battle helping largely unmotivated people drill through their own social conditioning. The solution is to motivate them to do the work themselves. It's the only way to bring change non-violently.  This is coming from someone who is fairly new to the left. I'm still unsure about where I stand exactly within the left and how to best communicate/advocate ideas that are still somewhat new to me
Holy shit I feel so understood by Justine.
Lmao the Mao-Zedong photo in the background
Schrodinger's queer cat can be both feminine and masculine without being inside the box
going to have to keep an eye out for a Miles Davis bio.
I can't believe I just watched a 10-minute Socratic discussion on the left.   Incredible. Succinct, incredibly informative and witty. Subbed!
"Neo" as in new?  What happened to the old?  Neo-conservative, Neo-liberal, Neo-marxist, Neo-whatever!  Please explain the old one first.
I have noticed that the more the Yanks talk about Marxism, the more the young people read Marx.  Jordan Peterson and Ben Shapiro aside, young Americans may come to embrace the social construct, knowing that we are the most social animals on earth.
Why will no one bring up people like Kropotkin, Goldman, Godwin or Bakunin? Fuck Engels and Marx.
ANTIFA is pretty much the real-life Nights Watch, they wear black and guard human civilization against the white nationalists. They also wear black and no one is listening to their warnings.
If you dont look at tabby and think shes awesome maybe you're the one with the problem
I mean, what happened between Jastin and Jacky? Thay seem so friendly new;(
7:08 Rojava
This only confirms my theory that fascism wants security and therefore that's why they have that simplistic discourse.
The ice cold motherfucker bit really makes sense to me. I find myself and other Leftists frequently frustrated with the question of how to win hearts without watering down our politics or opening ourselves to being co-opted by counter-revolutionaries. Big fucking thank you Miles Davis and ContraPoints ♥️♥️♥️
But punching Nazis is fun.
It's a good illustration of the left confusion. The fascists pull together with conservatives, religious, free market, gun lovers. The left has to form a coalition of inclusive liberty. Rare  and autoantonymic libertarian socialists, evangelical communists, liberty, justice, and fun for all. Top down? Bottom up? So you have a 2nd amendment. Maybe that means a socialist America gives guns, ammo, and training to all who want to be the well regulated militia. BUT no imperial army global army. Every citizen is the people's army. Filter out and prevent trouble. Equal protection under the law? Make all lawyers public defenders. Rich, poor, individual, collectives, corporation all get an assigned public defender. Eliminate justice to the highest bidder. Instead of scary titles like socialist or communist, how about egalitarian? Be aware, if you get traction, you be infiltrated, studied, and denatured.
*gasps in leftist illiteracy*
Didn't know leftists could read lol
As a fucking CENTRIST I am thrilled to see you chastise these fucking ignorant "communists." I consider myself a socialist and a capitalist, therefore a CENTRIST. Capitalism is AMAZING, albeit flawed (US Healthcare). Socialism is AMAZING, albeit flawed, (look at the US military industrial complex.) America WAS the greatest nation on earth after world war two -- besides the virulent racism -- because it managed the best synthesis of these two ideas ever seen on earth. Capitalism and socialism are a match made in heaven and I wish more people could see that.
ANTIFA are the Fascist NAZI you fool ! !
Ice cold motherfuckers. Ok
There's a lot of left-wing speeches from back in the day that would still resonate today. There's also a lot of Rock 'n' Roll that we can use.
L A B O R W A V E
man this brings me back to 2009 YT where we had scenes actually acted out instead of vlogs with big ass intros.
Snickgers
A chess game realy? But good video
2:55  It seems someone has decided to try and use Lelouch's chess strategies in real life.
Great video and on point! Btw Whats the music playing with the pink Marx bust animation?
i've watched this video before but never noticed the picture of mao
every single one of those chess moves were illegal AHH
That Tannhauser Overture playing at the start though <3
The only correct thing in the video was what the "fascist" said.  Telling.
What the fuck was that chess game....
I am in ardent agreement with the first one minute and thirty seconds of this video.  But even after the 1:30 mark, Natalie's critique of the Left was hilariously spot on.
Would unironically pay big money for that vapourwave Marx design
TANNHAUSER! Love me some Wagner. Too bad he was pretty much a Nazi.
'Calm and Collective': the strategy that might be the most effective game plan, if and only if executed correctly ... might be.
So I guess no one wants to mention how many millions of people were murdered under communism. Or how those ideologies always produce psychopathic murderer’s to become the dictator? No that would make too much sense.
I never heard a person from the right say that another person is not "something" enough. They are more welcoming than the left, it's a winning strategy. They are supposed to be horrible xenophobes or racists, yet black people can run for the republicans. When I was a teenager, I got really interested by the Punk movement but rapidly understood I could never fit the mold for various reasons but the first one is being fat. Did you ever notice that fat punks don't exist nor big punk clothes? It is problematic that leftist movements that are supposed to be anti-establishment are like ultra private clubs with strict rules about behavior and apearance. It's not just the intellectual elite that does that, it can be a group of crusty squatters. There are Straight Edge punks that are against taking any drug. The idea is that you have to have a clear mind, free of distraction to see reality as it is and combat it's evils. A good idea in theory, but what happens if you become physically or mentally sick? And there are other hippie-like groups that think if you don't do all the drugs especially psychedelics you can't have an open mind and see reality as it really is. There is also infinite conflicts inside ideologies like the famous Marxist-Leninist/Trotskyst clash. It is totally okay to debate and question things but dividing incessantly can be counter productive. My favorite sketches from the show Portlandia were about the fictional bookstore "Women and Women first", I'm a lesbian feminist and I laughed heartily at those caracters that were supposed to spread their ideology but just ended alienating every single person they met instead.
I feel so fucking stupid lmao I saw ACAB and assumed it was “assigned cat at birth”.
I am a liberal and I sure as hell don't protect facists. Even though I don't really agree with the Marxist way (and also think it's absolutely impossible to apply in reality and is just an unrealizable utopia), when it comes to combating the facist scum, I think we're all in this together, socialists and liberals alike. We may not agree on everything (or maybe anything, really) when it comes to economy, but we sure as hell have a common enemy when it comes to human rights, acceptance and tolerance.
I love how this is a dialectic roasting people who use of the word dialectic - makes me feel seen
antifa girl can take my queen any time
Left is crazy!
These videos are works of art.
Omg the matrix...you are a fucking goddess.
Trump is an open Zionist with a Jewish daughter and son in law. Portraying him as a Nazi makes you look.....well not very bright is the nicest way I can put it.  PS- To the rabid fans already typing how fascist I am; nope I'm a Zionist too. I believe that Israelis have a right to have a country and not be exterminated.
Honestly I think the left fetishes the right and one cannot exist without the other, for the right as we currently know it to go away so does the left have to vacate the stage for the centre ground.
The left is completely evil And hates whites
I think it's safe to say Destiny won this debate.
i know this is an old video but i love the way you can play two characters where neither is completely right or wrong. i think most people would frame the one they disagree with as crazy and wild while their own mouthpiece character is logical and chill and eye-rolling at the strawman. you allow both characters to be both reasonable and make good points, and also be wrong at different moments. you allow the audience to decide what they believe, rather than handing them your own opinion, which i think is what makes writing good. its also more realistic than heavy handed hypothetical debates. thanks.
You’re cute for a guy, no homo.
Cat Girls of the Left Unite! TABBY FOREVER!
I have a nazi uniform fetish so this gave my mental dick a boner  Good vid tho
Am I the only one triggered that the king and pawn endgame got randomly swapped out with a different position?
As a centrist, I have nothing but mixed feeling about everything in this vid. I don't even know if I should thumb' up or down.
10:16 what's the soundtrack?
Watching this video and reading Natalie's explanation of it really does get me even further aboard the "Contrapoints is the best thing to happen not only to Youtube since its inception but possibly to the whole goddamn internet since it came alive and started eating human thoughts, like zombies but more metaphorical" train.
I have that chess board
10:15 I am CRYING
Sadly anyone’s libel to being lined up against the wall when the revolution comes.
666k views
you definitely won this centrist over.
as someones whos antifa and an anarchist, i super enjoyed this video! and youre 100% right, one of my issues with my fellow anarchists is that they arent very eloquent in their arguments, they cant participate well in debate, and they cant calm down. understandably so! a lot are poor, homeless, mentally ill, targeted on a daily basis, have no interest in out fucked school system. i get it! i was extremely angry and outbursty in my debate before i even knew what being an anarchist was. i think a good way to solve this would be to advocate for our antifa to join a local speech and debate club at their school or college, have one of your actor friends to teach you some shit, idk just find ways to learn how to make your ideology seem better and "cooler" and more appealing
actually decent video... not for me but, decent information
Tabby is my spirit animal
Never thought I’d be jealous of a nazi punching person in car fangs but nazis aren’t good at all
damn i just realized me and Tabby are the same person
Bash the Fash!!
#<3!
Why are you so fucking hot as a fascist
“Ladies and gentlemen a leftist”  “Reeeeerrrrrrer” I almost died, this is so hilarious and accurate😂😭❤️
Tabby is life
I incredibly agree with this and the pinned comment. I can't believe it took me this long to work my way to this one. I feel like I agree with Tabby maybe just a teensy more than I'm supposed to, though I'm firmly not a tankie (although I'm not unwilling to concede that soviet communism, at least on principle, got things more right than western capitalism).     In a weird way, I think it took me this long to get to this video because it's so much shorter and I always want to eliminate as much time as possible at once.
Seems more women are leftists (?), and angry women are just scary for some reason...like I think it just elicits a primal fear because...Mommy.   Mommy's supposed to be nurturing and take care of Daddy and the babies, so when she goes all cold as ice and brutal it's an unnatural and disturbing site to behold.  "Sorry, Mom...I love you...please don't drown me in Lake Lavon and make it look like an accident as you swore to do if I didn't stop being a horridly rebellious child."
You ask how I expect anything to change without changing my approach. I honestly don't know. I don't have energy to try anything else and I'm exhausted from people being like the liberal character and still hanging out with people who question the validity of my existence. I don't think I'm better than anyone else but if someone is doing damage and won't change when I approach them patiently and compassionately, allowing them to stick around in hopes they will change one day is dangerous and reckless. I'm not concerned about looking good to people who think I don't exist anyway.these ideas will always look good to the people who really understand them, regardless of how angry the packaging is. Hell, the whole reason I'm a leftist is because someone finally aggressively called me out and got me to actually think about the stuff I was saying.
I think too many contra fans don't get that Tabby is supposed to be an ironic character emblematic about what's wrong with the left
Lol, the right wing has no rationality. Or maybe you're just too stupid to understand it. But keep on being irrational conformists only concerned with optics and not substance, that'll surely help your ability to meme.
"Socialists" are wannabe fascists.
how has bash the fasc not caught on wtf
Gosh even when you looked more andro you were cuuute
trans antifa catgirls reporting in
DO U NOT UNDERSTAND WHAT FASCIST MEANS??? ITS NOT CONNECTED TO WHITENESS OR THE SURVIVAL OF A PEOPLE. THAT IS A HUMAN RIGHT ACCORDINGTO THE UN
Wagner's Tannhauser Overture playing to that speech is basically telling the truth of what the right does. They sell a FEELING. Like what Wagner provides, ...of course instead of aesthetic grandeur like Wagner provides, the right does kitschy Christian/nativist crap....
The sad thing is: your video is from 2017. Two years later, the left went to the opposite of what you are trying to say to them.
Excellent video!
How is Tabby both Anarchist and Communist? What?
"This detached, ironic, pretend-not-to-give-a-shit posturing that white men mistakes for rationality is really just the self-celebration of comfortable, privileged people with nothing at stake. People on the left are never gonna be 'cool', because anger and emotion are rational reactions to injustice."
I like the pink lighting.
Hey, i get the reference on Tabby's Tetris leggings! Very commie of you!
"You know Tabby, people think you're weird, and they're afraid of you..." Oh God, Tabby and I would've been tight back in high school, lol!
I lold at the picture of Mao Zedong
tabby's voice oh my *g o d*
So why did we have to find out about Natalie being hot in leather by her portrayal of a Nazi lol I'm so conflicted
Happy may 1 comrades! Workers of the world, Unite!
Am I the only one who really enjoys tabby’s accent? I usually get annoyed by most people’s accents, but I like hers for some reason.
best video 10/10
Every time I watch a video by Natalie, I discover a new, formerly-hidden fetish of mine. Any Marxist catgirls out there who'd want to meet up for a drink?
Anti-Birth (pro choice) Anti-man (feminism) Anti-marriage (samesex bull)  Is  Anti-Christ. It's a system, Democratic System
Whenever I watch vids of her pre/early transition, it feels like I'm watching a different person. I think it's the hair
I didn't realise the rather Trumpian hand gestures for the nazi lol. Wasn't going all out, but it was enough.
I don't know if this is as important  an idea to bring to the table (and I know that asking for a reasoned debate in YouTube comments is an exercise in futility), but I feel like another problem with the Left's idea of activism, especially Tabby's brand of it, is that it doesn't leave anything for the people who *can't* go out and "meaningfully" protest by punching Nazis or laying down on the tarmac.  People with chronic or mental illnesses.  People with physical disabilities.  People who can't afford to lose their jobs because they have a family to feed.  People in poverty.  People with pre-existing trauma having to do with police and riots and the like.  What are they supposed to do?  Does their inability to "meaningfully" protest make them just as bad as the people they hate?  How "useful" would they be to their cause if they'd be the first people gunned down or driven into homelessness?  We need to give the people who can't afford to go out and be Big Bad Fash-Smashers a place at the table, or we risk alienating them just as much as the system already does.  I've always been of the opinion that people are a lot more valuable when they're actually *alive* to bring about change, so advocating for them to run out and put themselves in harm's way--or else they're just a sheep content to Just Follow Orders--maybe isn't the best course of action. TL;DR--It's good that we have people like Tabby, but not everyone, given their circumstances, is *able* to be Tabby, and we can't dismiss them out of hand.
Tabby's my favorite character
I hate how compelling this dialogue is.
I want to be friends with Tabby.
2:30 imposible move!
I was constipated before this video. Thanks, Contrapoints!
This dude is a bit cringy
what's the song at 5:38 when the Marx reader comes up? everytime i watch this video i GRROOVE
For some reason, your videos are all showing up for me in my feed with German subtitles, Natalie. Is this because of all the Wagner, @contrapoints?
So when Justine says “I like stuff” presumably she means “I like nice things” which arguably you aren’t going to get under communism due to its inefficiencies. Also as a centrist i personally find the combination of inadequate reasons on the side of social justice warriors and their overreactions unappealing. Also how can you be sure social justice warriors are nice people? They look filled with anger and hatred to me, and as for a bad moment....these are often protests which have been building up for months...it’s not really a moment.
List of cool leftists: miles davis, angela davis, george carlin, malcolm x, 2pac, boots riley, bill hicks, dave chappelle, joe strummer, bob dylan, albert camus, huey from boondocks, eartha kitt
That’s actually quite accurate and rationally explained. But the reason they’re not COOL, is exactly because they are driven by emotion and it cannot be in any other way since in order to influence, or persuade people, they would have to leave their guard down, be rational, listen and care about the other’s opinion. Which, in return, might change theirs. And then you get Democracy when the purpose is to get Communism. Lol
12:00 anarchopunk is this
I never comment on YouTube but I think I've finally found a channel which doesn't assume things, which uses facts peppered with emotion, the content is intellectual, unafraid of calling out leftist miss steps, especially in approach and just so refreshing!! The witty humour, (subtle) inuendos and exquisite production value just add to it all 💜 keep 'em coming!!!
Civilization as we know it fucking sucks what’s so bad about the end of it
Hi. I love you.
I love this bitch!!!
Exactly what they did, the changed the outside of the communistic nonsense of karl marx and forced it slowly upon the west.
I greatly appreciate that you associate “ice cold motherfucker” with Eddie Van Halen’s Eruption.
I get where Justine is coming from but Im siding with Tabby on this one.
YOUR SO SMARTGGGSDDDDDDDGSO I ASPIRE TO BE YYOU SDFUHFJsjfgf
Embora não concorde com tudo estou achando seus vídeos muito bons !! Sometimes we disagree but, mostly , I m loving your videos !
y'know this kinda sums up most of my issues with the left and its inability to *checks notes* function in any meaningful way.
I've never had any interest in cat girls whatsoever, but every second Tabby is on screen makes me want to cheer and fangirl. Also that "take me" at 12:38 is just so real I can't even.
Please share your book redesigns!!
tbh even though it might not incite “guillotine revolution”, the fact that we have increasingly more Tabbys, at the very least, means that we will have more folks willing to morally stick their neck out to protect marginalized communities. i understand the argument for optics but i also suggest that THAT can be something conditioned into people—this desire to go beyond optics. the fact that so many people can relate to Tabby, is proof that its possible and we are already going in that direction.  frequently, being a Leftist, is a stance, and the “revolution” is a sentiment, just like Trump’s wall sentiment. the status quo will relatively stay the same but i think it will budge in better directions with the cultural destruction of optics.
I wanna be an ice cold motherfucker
Have literally had conversations like this LOL
This is a brill channel love! AND I LOVE YOUR VOICE! Letting the truth out Is the sound of a beautiful voice. A transvoice is new voice and the stupid culture isn't used to it, stupid culture GROW arready. As a VO artist and singer. I hate the sound of my voice in recordings!! and I've been at it for 30 plus years. However, I know that my voice brings people joy,  and casts out the blues. That's is the beauty of the human voice. Not the pitch-tempo-range- tone- nor-tenor. All I hear from you is 'Nuance to wit: please don't be daft & love love love. fan number 3667!'
6:06 the look of Fritz's face kills me.
this started of well and then we got into the "leftis are so smart and ppl are just to stupid to get us" and after like 7 minutes i just had to turn of, unwatchable, nice idea tho
Damn I love this channel. You're so great!
this is still one of the best political videos on youtube
The thing I love most about Natalie's videos is that she presents every topic with all the layers of complexity and even ambiguity that they possess in real life.  The end result of the video isn't that it confirms OR dispels the beliefs you bring into viewing it (even if those beliefs are largely sympathetic), but rather that the videos make you THINK about those beliefs and their efficacy.  Great, great stuff!
evidently i'm the only weirdo in here that recognizes an eddie van halen as soon as i hear it, or perhaps i'm the only one who got excited about it ;___;
This is so good!!
Natalie is too fucking good for this world.
Who are Bruce and Trixie?
Well funny and all you get your point straight to sm who is familiar with political groups, but anarchy/communism is really not the same side. This may get really blurry for ppl who are not well educated in this. Also antifa in America is totally different than antifa in Europe. The practices and ideas are far more elaborate in Europe and their political stance is much clearer and organized. I would like to see your ideas on that.
That was cathartic.. the ghost of Trotsky is smiling down on you :)
"Dont use words like dialectics". Use dialectics itself instead. I like the irony
Social justice, drugs, and rock n roll
I’m rewatching and just wanted to leave a comment to help with the algorithm
I’m going on a contrapoints binge, I started with your oldest content and am working my way forward— absolutely fascinating. I watched this video before I watched “how to recognize a fascist” and before I’d seen some of your other stuff about dog whistles and fascist talking points, and I feel like I’m seeing and hearing a whole other language I was blind to before. Just in your hand symbols as a fascist, I see the emojis. Thank you for all of your work. You’re an inspiration to stay aware, to do the research, to call out my friends and family who are flirting with fascism. Thank you.
I like how your video's get dutch subtitels. Greetings from the netherlands. And btw i am  Leftist ✊✊✊
Wagner music in the background of the speech. Love this channel.
God damn i love you.
Wait. Is Tabby wearing tetris leggings???
This bitch came out here like Huey Long
You don't know anything about chess moves at all, do you?  😂😂😂
Realized at 0:15 that I have that jacket... I have that exact jacket ._.
Good pawn endgame
But when are you gonna publish a book? Because the leftie hordes demand a Contra manifesto. I'm just saying 🤷
12:05 Chomsky
Natalie works frighteningly well as an Aryan Nazi demagogue.
You are a lot better in making great character than Onision.
An excellent follow-up after this video is the podcast ep "LEFT OUT: Erik Olin Wright on real utopias and anti-capitalist strategies" Rest in Power!  "In this episode, we release an hour of unheard material from our conversation with Professor Erik Olin Wright, who sadly passed away this year on January 23rd, 2019.  Erik Olin Wright was a leading Marxian professor and public intellectual who taught at the University Wisconsin for over four decades."
OMG, THIS IS SO ON POINT WITH WHAT I THINK, LITERALLY! I AM SPEECHLESS
"My queen is wide open"  I died. 😂😂😂😂😂😂😂
“My queen is wide open”  *literally no queen on the board*
5:35 as a marxist-leninist myself i'm now pretty interested in what this new randition has to offer i love your take on this and i kinda agree with some of your points! i do notice the left tends to be a bit confusing and verbose and a bit harsh, but covering the whole thing with butterflies and glitter isn't going to do much.  edit: you could consider hippies from the 60's counterculture movement to be communists. Ice-cold leftists 😎  okay anyways-
<3
So I had to watch this god-knows-how-many times before realizing that Tabby is wearing Tetris leggings.
The first 2 times I clicked Contrapoint videos, is the first 2 times I saw Prep advertising.
Contrapoints you are a disappointment and digisting  for believing anti soviet propagenda
I absolutely love contra points.
Perdi nos 3:30
I was on the toilet for days after I overdosed on a pack of diuretics.
So well produced
Wow, that's a f%÷king pretty good content.
One of the best comments I've ever gotten about my Twitter persona is that I'm "unflappable"...
Love the Monty Python-esquw stock applause footage
that opener lol
Lmao at the beginning.
Wow ! You're the savior of the left and they don't even notice it.
Because you hurt my feelings is not a good reason and that is the best answer you have. You call everyone a racist and a fascist but you are the only ones trying to silence free speech while discriminating against every white Male you see. The fact is capitalism has brought more people out of poverty than any other economic model. Socialism and communism simply dont work.
Antifa has started the violence not defending against and I see the rallies you show up at.
This was sooo good
I was a centrist, then I watched your video.
I have to disagree with you. Every day is "Punch a Nazi Day!"
You destroyed the far radical left I can't stand while criticism the centrism I belong to, all at the same time... Damm, you are awesome.
This episode is my favorite, I think.
When I first watched this I was in full Tabby-mode, but Justine planted a seed of doubt in my head. It’s nice to watch this back and see how much I’ve changed my mindset.
Was just starting to have thoughts like these but you've helped clarify what I was already thinking. You are right, the left (and even as one who leans that way I must admit this) come across as preachy and unrealistic, often coldly academic and snobby. Our marketing does suck. One thing I'll hand it to the far right on, they've learned a very clever way of radicalizing people by pointing out these flaws against us.
Oh my God, I could cry. This just illustrates many of my thoughts and criticism on the left so beautifully and with such precision. That was amazing.
It’s interesting because both make good points. The implications of that makes my head spin.
[hiss]
Well done
Contra is good at act3ong along with the body languages what
That fascist costume is giving me strong Wyatt and Fletcher Shears vibes.
Is punching nazis a problem? Well, two awnsers about it:  1) It's ok to punch people because their political views, even if this views supports a genocide system? (yes, i'm talking this looking to you both, Nazism and Communism) 2) Who defines who is a nazi? A nazi can be recognized just how he/she looks?
Miles Davis is not a good example to follow. According to his own son, he was an abusive, explosively angry, drug addled POS. A genius sure, but a POS all the same. The Miles you a referring to is the one in interviews, and if you wanna bottle up your crazy to not appear to be a monster, good luck with your coke habit to come. Better to be a monster, and to do it honestly.
Do leftists really believe that the corporate media is not on their side? That's a good one, Contra.
You had me at hail Satan
ok but literally why would i buy a marx-engels reader if it had the first cover with the bust jfdgnfokdgnfodkn
Shit, we do need a makeover. We scare away the liberals and centrists too easy. I can appreciate the fascist’s game. They can convince people to vote against their interests like.. hot cakes?
I want The Conquest of both Bread AND Champagne....on account of the fascists are all about death and restricting everything in sight.... like some kinda' weird, joyless, dieting cult; even while life should be about thriving and pleasure and intellectual and constructive passion (and sex) instead.  I want an economic system based on Human *Need* instead of Corporate *Greed*.   I want a house version of The Internationale remixed with Coltrane and sung by Grace Jones.
*hello fellow* *_w h i t e s_*
I think you give too much credit to the mental stability of Leftists.  Your Antifa character just seems too well-adjusted.
'Most of my stuff was made by chinese slaves' 'You should feel bad about that' My remaining brain cells whenever I buy lots of shit I don't need.
2:48 the rook placement was not consistent and it ruined my immersion. Unsubscribed.
Hail Satan!
The Trump-ish hand movements really made this.
I genuinely appreciate the critique Natalie, your brilliant ability to help us see ourselves from another perspective is refreshing and helpful. Thanks for everything you do!
This is probably my favorite video she made
You seem to be a very intelligent person. Iv never found my self on ether side of a debate.  There are two sides both have there opinions   And there both wrong 😝.  But then again no one is always right when it comes to opinion.  So fuck it disect both sides.  There both right and left wrong and right.  Ill keep watching. Keeping a open mind to change.  Or at least exist.
i love this video with all of my heart omg
Me looking at white American food: what culture, MOTHERFUCKERS CAME OVER HERE AND RISKED FALLING OFF THE EARTH TRYING TO FIND SPICES FOR THEIR BLAND ASS FOOD AND YOU STILL GOT HOUSEWIVES OUT HERE TALKING ABOUT MASSAGING KALE
Wish I could send this to all the stupid anarchist people in my town and show them how ineffective (and honestly pretentious) their tactics are.
I wish ur fascist character would fuck me.
Okay that vaporwave inspired book cover had me in tears.  On the topic of respectability politics in year 3 under Trump we can clearly forget about that.  All the masses are interested is a verbal brawl preferable with lots of under the belt punches and frankly how hard can it be to skin the orange buffoon alive, verbally of course?
Your lighting is making me moist.
11:48 *Insert picture of Stalin with the Soviet anthem playing*  Sorry, I had to do this. Stalin was angry and cool/cold.
3:32 So what? That's not what communism is about.
05:39 I want this on a bag or a mug
To let people know in advance, I am trans. I agree with you that how something is said seems to matter more than how much substance what was just said contains. This is why Trump won the election. His emotionally charged speeches roused people into voting for him without thinking about the consequences or if what he had just promised was even possible. Emotional people are easily led. On the other hand if the left begins to use the same practices are they any better? Do two wrongs make a right? If you put a leftist in office using the same tactics Trump did would this person even be an effective leader? What I'm about to say may get me crucified but I am about to say it anyway. The right, even the alt-right are not evil people. I disagree with them on every level but I do not consider them my enemy. The best way to end hostility is to remain calm, rational and engage your opponent with a level head and compassion for what may have brought them to their current state of thinking. They are not the enemy. They are simply people with a different world view and if you wish to change their view showing them that you understand that they are human beings capable of love, kindness an understanding just as you are is the best way to do it. Going to war with the alt-right will not change anything. It will only cause more people to join the alt-right. Love your enemies and you will have none.
I feel personally attacked
11:56 yes... OH GOD YES 12:06 ONE MORE TIME HALLELUJAH
Every time some awful alt right shit happens I come back to this vid so I don’t go bash the fash. Well it happened yet again over 40 Muslims gunned down just for existing. And this time the video isn’t helping. I love what you’re doing and what you stand for Contra. But as time passes and things keep getting worse and as annoying as she can be I am starting to think Tabi may have a point. Actually not a point the point. How many innocent people at church need to be shot before we have a shooter at the next unite the right? Can’t be many more I imagine as I swore off violence after my tour in Iraq and these fuckers are bringing it back as an option for me. Keep doing what you’re doing girl, we need you now more than ever.
This motherfucker is killing it. So glad I found this channel
What an incredible critique of the left.  I really appreciate your humor and being able to communicate ideas about how moralism alone comes across tone-deaf and condescending. Also the idea that it's ok and should be encouraged to critique the left while still being on the left! I wish more on the left followed your example. New fan right here for sure! #makeliberalscoolagain
Hola, desde México! You are an ice cold motherfucker, i love your content, this makes me feel like ther is hope! HOOOPPEE! Please keep awesome <3
arn't we conditioned from birth to think the guy in all black with a mask is always the bad guy.
Nice painting, reminds me of myself somehow
I liked this video. Found it pretty entertaining. Although, could you please try and make the characters' voices sound more unique from one another? I found it hard to differentiate from them cause I was mostly only listening to this video and not actually watching it.
why do i have a crush on tabby
I’m as centrist as it gets. I love your channel and shoe0nhead’s
Yuge PR problem. Yuge. Rove around in gangs dressed in black uniforms smashing shit up. Fascists. :\
I'm happy to live in the same world as you...  I wanna hug you so hard
Wait, is Tabby a vampire? Why doesn't she show up in the reflection of your sunglasses?
Okay, as someone who's entire life has been surrounded by people who grew up under Communism, almost none of them like it, everyone hates having to have their mouth shut and fearing Goli Otok, but everyone here (Former Yugoslavia) that starved was because of former history of slavery under the Ottomans, when it comes to having things™ everyone praises the quality of the products back then, I mean I cook on a 50 year old+ cooker.
But gulag (gulaSH here in Macedonia) is really really really good...
Dear Lord, this is so good and clever! And thanks to you, I'll now dig even deeper on Miles Davis!! Double Thank You for that, gorgeous! 💜
I can’t stop watching your videos. I will be sad when I run out of your back log and have to wait on new videos at a slow drip. I appreciate the balance of style and substance.
You're my new favorite. But riots are the only reason any good change happened. What would of happened if the brick wasn't thrown at stone wall?  I just want liberals who dedicate their lives fighting for the oppressed to vote in favor of them and not on a centrist who will make their hard work mean nothing.
5:56 hello feLLOW WHITES
Why do I ship Tabby and Justine?
5:47 that’s actually a pretty good cover
Oh! Oh! Someone's a fascist just because they dress-up in Nazi uniforms and talk like a fascist! The "tolerant left" is at it again....
This is so good!!!
10/10 comedic timing for "worth a shot" at 10:23
I absolutely love Tabby tbh lmao
This dude needs to hit a gym
We can't tell people to read obscure European philosophers with unpronounceable names? Whew, good thing Bookchin is an American Philosopher with an easily pronounceable name.
I agree that that the left needs to work on it’s rhetoric and it’s ‘brand’, but in this video you are continuing the trend of talking about leftism and the left in a way that is contrived to fit your narrative and service your argument, instead of presenting actual evidence. Your are essentially robbing leftists of their voice, which is a basic problem for the promotion of their ideas, far outweighing the bad optics generated by some bad apples on social media, which tends to bring out the worst in people, and then this bad press is amplified by a complicit media. I used to consider myself a libertarian, but leftist speech that has a commitment to the truth and moral rightness literally convinced me to think of myself as a socialist. So this argument rings hollow for me. The left may have issues, but the individualist explanation you advance for it here is a weak one. For every uninspiring leftist you cite I can name five. And cool is totally and completely subjective. Come on, you can do better.
I gotta say the hammer and sickle does make me rather uncomfortable and it shows up all the time on leftist spaces online. It's hard to convince me your not a Tankie when you throw it up.   But at the same time I do call literally every one comrade.    So what I am saying is I'm a massive hypocrite
The left will always lose because they’re incorrect, simple.
I get what you're saying about it not being cool to have an angry outburst, but I don't think I quite agree that we have to become "cool". "Coolness" and "detachment" are modes that allow for callousness and lack of empathy, it's one of the problems with capitalist society in the first place, where you don't have to feel anything about your consumerism existing on the back of exploited wage slaves in the global South - because we are so detached from the people who are being exploited by our lifestyle. I'd suggest that we need to become warm and empathetic.
Very relevant: I don't think it is stalemate, the white king has one spot to go, looks like (but I'm terrible at chess, so who knows, really! x)
I really am trying to work hard on being more "ice cold". People who initially disagreed with us are going to feel attacked enough when we prove our points to them, when they realize they didn't know everything and were maybe possibly wrong, that we don't need to insult or antagonize them on top of it. But I think a lot of us recognize how frustrating it is that we have to stay cool, while belligerent xenophobic racists and their proudly ignorant followers get as loud and angry as they want on all kinds of media, and seem to be all the more well-received for it.
It's interesting because both of them have a point
You don’t know the game of chess, do you?
Anarcho Syndicalism just makes me think Monty Python. Is this a jokey-reference or...? I can't see that working large scale, but I'm dumb so.
I'm pretty high and the Tannahuser recording you used slaps real hard. So hard I watched it like 6 or 7 times on my TV in my apartment, and I just realized if anyone were to see or hear me I would just be a dude watching a fascist give a fascist speech to Tannhauser on repeat.
"dσn't ѕαч prσpαgαndα, thєrє míght вє líвєrαlѕ líѕtєníng"......σч.
Am I the only one incredibly attracted to Tabby right now? Like I get it's a parody but.... um.... I think I should go for a walk.
Counterrevolutionary trotskyite? I don't get it, how could one be a trotskyite AND be counterrevolutionary? Trotskyism supports the global revolution, the permanent revolution.
Wait, what happened in Cameroon between 1910 and 1912? Why am I just now learning about this???
Where do you get all these costumes?
I have to say that the idea of putting brands on the cover of say, Das Kapital might actually be a brilliant way to catch people's eye. I know the saying don't judge a book by its cover, but this is a society of the spectacle and putting brands on the cover of Marx's writing on capitalism might actually be kinda brilliant, who knows lol.
You are the literal best
Te amo💕
Has anyone said rooks don't work that way, yet? First!(?) lol -Hug
Welp. This is the first ever video I've seen of yours, and was sent here by PhilosophyTube. Time to subscribe.
Trans Antifa Catgirls? Sounds like you're talking about my best friend.
Oh no i'm Jakey ah.
8:11 Literally me
They're both right!  <3 it CP!
This is so absolutely wonderful! Your videos are perfect!
10:15 HardwareUnboxed, is that you??
ILYSMRN
Confession time, The first time I watched this video and up until pretty recently I never knew what A.C.A.B meant. I just assumed it was particular to Tabby and meant ASSIGNED CAT AT BIRTH. Imagine my surprise, when going to work one morning, I saw the letters spray-painted on a garage door. Cool I thought, Natalie's reach is going global.  It turns out that it's nothing to with cats, such a damn shame.
Contra. I fucking love your stuff. You give me faith in my beliefs.
07:40 was the biggest of oofs.
A year late and a dollar short, but I love you!  I have been binge watching your channel and love you! You have given me so much to think about,  you are so gifted.
Can't find the version of 'Without a sound' used in this video.
Lmao the left aren't even communist. They're just fucking anti capitalist.
"Excuse me, do you have time to talk about Hegelian Dialectics?" What? Get out, I'm trying to sleep!
ContraPoints' amazing videos are like Tintin (And that is a good thing). Over the years new funny and entertaining characters are introduced, making her channel even better.  alright shut up it is like tintin dont you insult my analogy it is valid
I just want to know where she got those teeth, they're great
There is nothing wrong with satanism
"I'm an anarcho syndicalist." Proceeds to post Soviet and right Communist memes.
11:55 is the best fucking idea
i love your sets ;)
Hail Satan
That must have taken you ages to make :D
Dog whistled hand gestures are on point 👌
Great video I just need to edit out all the criticism of the cat girl character.                   -this comment brought to you by TabbyGang
Oh god that chess game... The starting position is literally impossible no matter whose turn it is.
These are the best videos on this website. I don’t just mean as a leftist or for a trans person ,these are the most educational in regards to the most missed political points on this website.
Why did Contrapoints become a nekogirl?
THIS MADE ME FEEL SO WOKE OMG I LOVE YOU
yaasss girl, yyaaaaasssssss
As a chess player I am frankly appalled by the amount of illegal moves
“YOU GO TO BRUNCH WITH THESE PEOPLE?” Mmmmm mamosas
Rightalk = leftalk = mostly carcasstalk.
i think from this point forward i'm going to become: an ice cold motherfucker. thanks contrapoints.
i'm sorry but as soon as you said "my fellow Americans" with your hands like ok symbols i died lmao
I honestly don't know how she can have conversations with herself
love the speech part. Part of the reason why I didn't go into a masters/phd program is because it completely changes your language. Unfortunately this puts a barrier of entry to the people that need to hear the message the most. And leaves the right to be freely understood. Nothing against your channel, love what you make... but it definitely requires a high level of education to understand it. Again, not hating on your channel, we need both voices. We need to reach people at all levels of education. But your skit really conveyed the difficulty of language that the left has. Of course you can find difficult language on the right as well, but somehow they tend to keep their arguments more straightforward and easy to grasp
there was a thriving functional Anarchist society In Spain leading up to WW2. And in Chiapas Mexico today.
the problem with the foe Academia left is that they don't know how to talk to people on the ground level like the right does. I got a lot of that out in Boston Massachusetts. And there was nothing about those groups of leftist and auntie for that made the movement attracted to me, and I was already in the movement before I got there. It's certainly not going to look good to anyone who's normal or centerest. I don't even hang out with people like that, anymore. and people also need to understand that an tifa isn't just Smash and punch face. There's no such movement that would be able to survive on directly physical methods. Antifa is also Mutual aid to take majority power away from a few certain groups of people who gets to decide who does and doesn't get help in times of natural disasters.  don't get mad at the working poor and Centerists when they reject your ideas because you're talking to  them in a language that they can't understand. Especially in contrast to a group that knows how to speak on a 5th grade level to get their point across.
I identify as Tabby.
I feel so called out by Tabby!
a communist furry and a cynical hipster playing chess now that has got to be satirical
aksually
I think this means we get the white cishet guys on our side to do the talking for us to maintain the 'ice cold' appearance
i love the thumbnail so much!!!!!
SJW's need more chill and style.
Assaulting for having what you consider undesirable opinions is not a just means with "bad optics" it is highly immoral and illegal. When you claim that punching "Nazi's" is justified because you are stopping future oppression and violence against marginalized groups it comes off as extremely self-righteous and deluded. Assaulting anyone for any reason other than immediate defense of your or someone else's life, liberty or property will never be justified. Also it doesn't help that typical Antifa members label anyone who is pro-life or against forced diversity as a "Nazi".  Congratulations, you have successfully rationalized assaulting people you disagree with and somehow they are the authoritarian closed minded ones. Imagine if someone assaulted you. You'd be like "Dude WTF, I'm calling police". But then the assaulter said "No, I can punch you because I have thought about it a lot and your harmful ideas will lead to violence and oppression against me sometime in the future." The mental gymnastics of leftists truly knows no bounds.
10:32 SHSHSHHHH! don't call it propaganda; there could be liberals listening lol omg yass
i’m just desperate to know what version of funeral march for a marionette this is
Altough emotions are natural, they' re pathetic on the faces of politicians. That's why righties are so fascinated about Peterson (<3). We need drugs, jazz and social relativism. FUCK NEOLIBERALISM
"HAIL VICTORY"
fangs times a million
oh this is just The Best™
these distinctions are born of not fully understanding the problem . let me put you "straight" ....there is love on the left and no love on the right .
Anyone else notice that the move at 2:30 is illegal?
we need a remake of the admirable crichton .
🆒🔘💠( ( ( Ｓ♢ＣＩΛＬＩＳＭ ) ) ) 💠🔘🆒
I love this, you showed both sides with valid points but also flaws. I think that you're the first one to do it in internet. Hugs from Brazil
Well you would speek diffrent it you would come frome former communist country
I found myself identifying with both characters
I really wish I understood that Heigle stuff
To all you TYT supporters  Let’s start a movement together to make a contact with this channel and TYT so Every copy the link of this videos and send it to TYT comments   Me: https://youtu.be/QuN6GfUix7c
I find myself somewhere in the miffle of these two and I'm totally here for social justice, drugs, and rock and roll.
Marx was pro American.
Redesigning Marxist literature to look like a vaporwave thumbnail...lol. Fuck. I just need to hold my comments until the end of class because I'm only 5min in and this is my second pause-and-comment worthy observation. This video is too good.
great use of editing and sound at at 2:29
This is beyond amazing! I hope you make much more videos on this particular subject. And maybe provide more examples.
You have the same chessboard as me :)
so i tend to watch a lot of right wing videos, not because i agree with them but because (well 1 i dont technically disagree in the sense that i want them to change and just follow my beliefs) i find it interesting to see what the other side thing. from watching these videos ive came to a bunch of conclusions that i haven't  actually seen articulated anywhere before on yt. but your channel is really cool because despite being left wing all the arguments are presented in such a reasonable way in comparison to what we normally see. being critical of your own side only helps to strengthen your side as well and the left certainly needs that more than anything
5:32 That's actually perfect. No sunglasses or palms, just as it is right there.
I’m somewhere in between a liberal and a centrist, and goddamn this video makes a good case for the problems of the left and how they can fix them to appeal to centrists.
May liberalism someday climb out of its horrific dung heap of a mess and actually make sense again, some far and distant day.
make america ice cold 95% trans Antifa cat girls again.   hail satan
This was surreal ans informing
The best people are the ones who can acknowledge the wrongs in their own ideologies.
whats your opinion on civic nationalism. so like the scottish national party.
I love you
What's the music after she says "Aww yes"  Edit: For more detail, I mean the first Marx-Engel reader photoshop title.
The music choice in the beginning is genius 👏
I know this is ancient and probably said before, but that move to F2 at 2:30 is illegal. You can't move your king into a space adjacent to the opponent's king because it would imperil your king, which you can't do. For the same reason, I'm not sure why it is your turn if the white king is imperiled by the rook at A1. Any move they made on the previous turn that didn't result in freeing their king from the check would have been illegal.
I love your critiques via caricatures!
As an activist on the left, I have mixed feelings about this.  On one hand, I agree that it's important if the left wants to reach other people, and not just cheer amongst themselves, then we do need to be aware of the delivery of our message and that not everyone is going to be down with the WHO'S STREETS? OUR STREETS!!! chants. I think we need multiple methods of delivery because there isn't one style of delivery that is going to reach all people. My mother for example, often responds to protests with "eh, why are they yelling?" as she doesn't care for people yelling lol and she will not stop to ask why they are doing so.  I think it's important that as activists that we recognize the difference between the tactic that feels cathartic and a tactic is actually effective. Catharsis does not always = effective and it's vital that we are mindful of the difference.  That said, not everyone on the left is antifa and that needs to be noted. I also think antifa is very important, especially in these times. When the fascists come ready to smash and intimidate, the left needs it's own security force of sorts and that's where the antifa comes in. Think of what happened in Charlottesville where a group of academic scholars and religious community leaders, linked arms and started singing this little light of mine in protest. If not for the antifa, they would have gotten their asses kicked.  I also think while ideally people can sit down and have a constructive conversation about issues, I don't think it's realistic or in many cases fair to ask that of people in marginalized demographics to calmly explain why tbey should not oppressed - or how they even are oppressed, for that is often up for debate, for the 1,000th this week. When people are getting daily doses of social and systemic oppression, it's draining. It's a bit like saying "oh, are you utterly drained by the social and systmic oppression that you face on a daily basis? explain to me - prove to me - how this is true, but do in a cool, calm manner, so not to offend my delicate ears."   (or the people who are not oppressed, and treat other people's oppression as their intellectual exercise by playing devil's advocate - I'm kinda down with Tabby (hypothetically? lol) smashing those people ha ha ;) )   This is not to be confused with the faux-ally who gets off on calling people out in a non-constructive away and the drama of it all.   anyway before this turns into a full on essay, I shall end this comment here lol. As always I appreciate the use of theater and creativity to discuss this issue (as that is one tactic that I do beleive is effective and enjoyable) and thanks for creating these videos.
I love the image of the champagne socialist, getting flack from the radical activist about her brunches with the centrist liberal.  This is exactly the conversation the Left needs to have.
Honestly the fascist Contrapoints character makes me feel really uncomfortable...       In a good way ( ͡° ͜ʖ ͡°)
At first I was a bit harsh on this video but I see now why it's important that it was made. I see a lot of the ways Marxist-Leninists talk about human rights and the (campist) way they discuss China/Iran/Hezbollah and so on and so forth. It worries me that they might be the most detrimental thing to communism going forth, as their downright refusal to recognize tactical failings makes them susceptible to the exploitation of those failings. If you think the adventurist anarchists tipping over trash cans and smashing coffee shop windows give the left a bad image, you've never seen a member of the PSL defend Bashar Al-Assad at a protest against US Imperialism. There's more concern with what is materialist than there is for tactics and how to advertise socialism as actually quite a good thing.
I ship it
I feel like every time you upload to YouTube my nips get a lil harder. Big yoikes!
This is very reminiscent of the strategies you mentioned in your Alt-Right video
Fuer Tabbie: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tyShCNbsplI
Es ist eigentlich kein wichtiger Punkt, aber ich liebe *Tannhaeuser*.
You have the antifa eye down perfectly. Well Done.
That's a shower curtain isn't it? Clever lol
have enjoyed your takes in these weird times.. and also soundtrack choices but this the first time I have noticed you have a Charles Walter piano! Very underrated upright!
I definitely have different political views than you but I really like your videos and points you make. See ya at brunch, honey ;)
Hiss @4:00 😺
I got a Ben Shapiro ad 😂
i love tabby
Please, please put out a vaporwave cover of Marx and Engels with a preface written by you!! That is a shiny thing that I want. I could read it on the bus or the train without peopling thinking I'm some Soviet or Maoist relic. It's in the public domain, so you could totally rock that merch!
only the most eagle eyed gods of humans were following the chess game.
Contrapoints is a counterrevolutionary confirmed
if only i could like this many more times then once...
I want fascist Natalie to flog me until America is great again.
Greatest channel ever.
Lol good touch with the wagner playing during the facisct speech
I'm in love with 😍
Please stop using the Q slur, it makes these video really difficult for alot of people (including myself) to watch.
Its admirable that I can fully understand this video while Im cooking and not watching the video at all.
I kinda hate that I view your leftist characters as female but your facist character as male.  I mean it makes sense considering that well facists but yeah it shows that my brain still has trouble getting used to trans people which Im working on.
You're a fucking genius.
OH MY GOD I AM DONE I CAN'T DEAL WITH THE FEELINGS ANYMORE THE ICE COLD PART OH MY GOD
"What only I and the fascists seem to understand is that reason doesn't matter very much."   Oh damn. Oh. Damn. She. Is. So. Right.
Red and gold were my high school's colors 😆
I would definitely watch Queer Eye for the Marxist-Leninist (or Queer Eye for the Anarcho-Syndicalist).
Bash the Fash!!!  Love it!  Great stuff!!!  ICMF!!!
You absolutely hit the nail on the head saying that the left should be more cool.  I always thought of leftism as the only way until I went to college. I grew up in a very working class neighbourhood and got to college through saving money. Leftism is made for academic arts students who don't know what it's like to have to work just to survive. So they stick to theory and won't compromise their values. It makes them come off as rigid and self-involved, not to mention spiteful and elitist when they're criticised.  I read a few leftist theory books and remarked in college that if more of the non-educated working class understood what they said and knew about the theory in as plain language as it could be, they would be leftists themselves. But they're full of academic jargon that only leftist college kids would realistically read and thoroughly understand. A lot of leftist leaders cater to the middle and upper classes, and they tell the working class what they should want without explaining it in plain English or listening to their ideas/stories.   I try my best to stay with my values as a leftist, but I know that more of us need to be called out on our bs on a more regular basis. I find more classism in the left than the right, which is ironic but also incredibly sad.
Why would you like to make a bunch of screaming asshole monkies be cool?
I saw the New Yorker article about you and didn’t read it because I thought you were full of shit. Boy was I wrong. I love you and I’m a fool.
After watching Contra points I'm rethinking my support for Antifa I've always been a peace loving person but found myself getting carried away with anger and fear over our political climate I lost myself and she helped me find myself again.  I would be proud if I could change one person's way of thinking I'm sure she has changed a lot of minds and should be very proud of that.
there are SO many good lines in this one, i always come back to it ❤️❤️
Tabby is stupidly cute when she bites her lip.. it's not erotic or anything, like just a place to park one's fangs or something.
The fascist making those hand signs in the beginning though >_> great touch, I love the awareness in your videos- keep up the amazing work!
Bash the fash<3
Playing Wagner during the fascist speech...love the attention to detail
brilliant
Im surprised no one saw the TRUEDILTOM reference
Marxism IS pure theory, that's its problem. That's why Stalin is the inevitable outcome.   Start with his most basic and fundamental flaw; class struggle is the essential driver of human history. It isn't. Class has always existed, but not really as some Hegelian  struggle. Sadly, the fascists are closer to reality; ethnic movement is the great driver of human history.   Add to that that Marx was a terrible human being who didn't pay his bills to his tradesmen, lived off dividends from the Engles family mills, never once even visited those mills,  didn't provide for his family and was as racist as his times we see he actually didn't give a shit about working people. Like all public intellectuals he  just wanted to be remembered as one of history's truly great thinkers. Which he isn't.  And yet another excellent video, Contra.
Hey, don't bring Satan into this. If Christians GOPers can say Amen at the end of their garbage....
Bravo
Is Tabby supposed to be a vampire?
I truly like your way to wrap up complicated ideas into content that breaks it into pieces and make really digestible.  I agree on every point.  Thank you for what you're doing!  Your logic is strong, and it's something cool nowadays :)
I really want you to do a video about Anders Breivik's manifesto becoming mainstreamed by the leading "thinkers"  and pro debaters on the right. Basically, political correctness or "cultural Marxism" is a Marxist conspiracy and is reason to turn against feminism and multiculturalism which cannot produce a strong enough welfare state. Racism in a multicultural society is inevitable. Which cannot result in a strong welfare state. Total bullshit propaganda to induce a white majority ethnostate. The inevitable tradeoff conservatives will make for a strong welfare state as a strategy that allegedly is less racist than multiculturalism. Wow, right?
those cover redesigns : )
I'm a radical centrist neoliberal (not that dumbass cLaSsICaL lIbErAl kind) and that was goddamn brilliant. Natalie, I'm appropriating you for the neoliberal. Stay Ice Cold
Pff I love the fact that the anarcho-syndicalist character is a tankie.  TBH if you call yourself anarcho-anything and you defend the Soviet Union or any countries that take after it (Cuba, Venezuela, North Korea) you're wrong and I want you to stay away from me
Im hetero as f.ck, mostly bcs of smell and also i dont like dicks except mine, but this Tabby...rrrrrr...
just wanna say the move at 2:30 could not exist LOL
Ice Cold Motherfuckers ftw ✌
A fictional dialogue between characters created for philosophical and artistic purposes? Yeah right, we all know you live in a house full of clones of yourself. There's no use hiding it.
Ice cold acid burn bitch
i honestly what you to make merch like a shirt that says "we need social justice, drugs and rock n' roll"
I watched this with my cat and every time Tabby hissed he got freaked out. Really glad to see him taking an interest in leftist politics.
that first book cover design sold me
Damn this is a really good one.  Wish I had found your channel earlier could have saved me a lot of embarrassment and tears!  My brother sat me down and explained exactly this to me.   I am so much more calm and collected with people now.
ContraPoints 2020! She could staff her own cabinet... 'cept the fash, of course...
Is Communist Cameroon a thing? If anyone can send me a like about it I’d love you forever
What do you get when you sprinkle a little anger into a glass of cool?  Hmmm... MC Ride?
9:04 Someone must be a Capitão main ;)
I’m baffled. I’ve been binge watching these Contrapoints videos. I love them. But there’s one thing I don’t get. She discusses topics such as LGBT matters and politics.....yet the comments section isn’t a 7th circle of hell cesspool of hate and violence. Does she moderate this or what?
I guess I'm a cat person. I miss Alfred. Excuse me while I have a hissy fit.
Literally just played 2:29 in my orchestra concert the other day lol
Justine really cant hang.
I cannot begin to stress how much I absolutely love this video! It was so insightful and really made me empathize and perhaps have just a bit more understanding of antifa. Thank you Ms. Points!!!!
Does anyone know if I can find Zoë's version of Funeral March For A Marionette online?
Oh my god your catgirl act is so adorable! <3
Hey that chess metaphor is literally the best I've ever seen and I just thought you should know that
Frickin amazing.
I love the subtle Trump hand motions that the fascist makes, amazing
"Im a anarcho-syndicatist"  Can you imagine a nat and anarcho syndicalist really getting along without judging the other their position?
Wtf, I literally got a 4 minute long Ben Shapiro anti-left political ad in front of this video! Wtf YouTube!!
Disagreed, capitulating is how you become a liberal or even worse a neoconservative like those exsocialists.   Perhaps we should stop punching nazis and punch the government instead like those yellow vest guys?
"defence violence" hahahahahahahaha... off to prison, kitty.
I've never seen Hitler satire being portrayed so...sexily? That's a word right? But dayum, them collar bones, that lighting. Even kinda early on in the transition, still sexy, still lovin' it.
I GOT A PRAGERU AD WHERE BEN SHAPIRO SAID "THE LEFT" SAYS YOUR OPINION ONLY MATTERS IF YOURE OPPRESSED AHHHHH
No one ever gets chess right...the first move played in this video is Black King to f2 placing it next to the white King on g1. This is impossible. Kings cannot under any circumstance inhabit adjacent squares. You can call me a chess nerd, but the metaphor of chess as a means to represent a "battle of wits" or as an indicator of a character's intelligence is a tiresome trope. It seems every time I see a board in a movie, commercial, YouTube video, Instagram post, etc. the position is blatantly absurd or just plain impossible. If the goal is to convey intelligence this is hilariously self-defeating...on that note, you are extremely intelligent ContrPoints and I appreciate your videos deeply HAHA! You are highly thought provoking on multiple levels. Just try to get your chess right in the future! And if you need a reason, do it for me...an anonymous YouTube comment. : )
"the freeeee-rubin-dom report"
Contra Points: I'm married but I still want to take you out to dinner. I LOVE your videos!
Socratic method at its best
Late Night Delight!! 💕
The ads just keep getting more ridiculous. Right now, Ben Shapiro is talking about how horrible identity politics are Lmfao. And its titled "What is Intersectionality?"
This was fucking amazing!!!!
"Don't call it propaganda, there could be liberals listening" is now my favorite quote of all time.
Can't tell if this is counter-revolutionary propaganda or a more realistic view of how to really change the world.  But I'm loving every minute of it. Keep it up!
Link to that Marx vaporwave? 😍
"And one of these days- if you can bare to tear yourself away from your tea set long enough- you're gonna go to a protest rally. And the Black Blok is gonna save your life. 'Cause you don't look like you can fight, and the police certainly aren't gonna save you."  At this line, I had to stop the vid, eat a burger, and have a couple shots before I could back and finish. Fantastic Madness!
i feel attacked. just @ me already
this video really made me think
I like Tabby.
Isn't it funny that the most extreme views on politics originated in Germany? Also: Love the German Antifa patch. Also Also: I am somehow having the weirdest boner in my entire life...
you are a life-saver. minty, i imagine.
Im here from blaire white
The Communist Manifesto is pretty much InfoWars if Alex Jones were angry that everything costs money. It would be funny if it weren’t used as an excuse to murder tens of millions of people.
My birthday is coming up. I guess my goal is to become an ice-cold mo-fo. I.C. MoFo!
Me at the beginning: O Bwünnhilde, you'w so wuvwy
Funny, I just got a PragerU ad lmao
Anyone have the PGN for the chess game?
That is one funny dude!
Love ah!!!! Cheers.
You've done a wonderful job!  I really enjoyed watching and the arguments were very good.
v a p o r w a v e c o m m u n i s m
Change will come when the Left learns marketing.
My queen is wide open.
Serious question: you've referenced the counter-cultural self-expressive virtues of rock in other videos, yet to my knowledge you haven't actually made a dedicated episode on that scene/culture yet. Think there's enough fertile soil to till on that plot? Because I'd LOVE to see it; I'm a huge advocate for the power music can have on personal identity and self actualization.
it's true and you should say it
you're some kind of a revolutionary. there's a big chance people will start following you, if they aren't already. run for congress. it'll be fun
Commies get free 🚁 rides.
Probably the only political video on YouTube that actually got me to laugh out loud (aside from the ones that get me to cry my insides out).
Brilliant use of soundtracks!
I ship it
The left arent communists...they just have incoherent bourgeoisie lifestyle politics. I wish they were actually communists. Real leftists arent cat lady socialists they're literally just cat ladies.
liberal bullshit. stop smearing the Soviet Union.
*ROTE ARMEE FRAKTION* ✊
Love to see videos like this too! Presentation matters, and if these issues are as important to us as we say, then it should be just as important to us to present them to people in an appealing and comprehensible way if we want people to truly understand their importance and want to support them. Besides, while fighting against people who seem to be all about vitriol and gatekeeping, it's important to me at least to genuinely not be the same negative, angry, vitriolic people as they are. If we're aiming to create togetherness we can't be fighting amongst each other over things like who suffered more, and who's a true paragon of morality and altruism. We need to look at people realistically and not cannibalize people who may have made mistakes in their past, especially if they're turning their lives around and now want to support progressive causes, and not demonize people who support progressive ideals but who also enjoy material wealth or just plain realize they NEED money to be able to put some of their progressive ideas in motion. Nobody's perfect, nobody's an angel or a saint. We're just people trying to shape our world into one where we can be a little happier before we die, so we need to shift this from parsing good and evil and focus more on what goals we need to achieve to create the world we're hoping to live in.
is there any tabby justine romance fanfic?
Someone please give Natalie a talk show
“GTFO YOU NAZI FUCK” Love it
Oh man, did you throw a little Cliffs of Dover in there? Amazing.
Yanis Varoufakis is totally the Miles Davis of the left today.
Yunno...in another world you could change absolutely nothing about the content of this video and it would just be a Tom Stoppard play.
When your ideas are actually intrinsically good you won't have to psyop a portion of the population. Congratulations, you've become just like you the intelligence arm of the imperialists you hate.
I think Hitchens might be an even better example than Davis
This are not nazi punching hands.... felt really represented there
A student sent me here, and I was reminded of this video through your recent featured piece in the New Yorker. I had no idea you were a PhD student in philosophy! Such a wonderful piece, and so useful for people responding to the rising fascism.
FUCKING brilliant! socratic dialogues.... i hope you might do some similar content on more personal conflicts outside of grand political debates
10:50 "Its not that they dont have good reason in support of their arguments" If you would have good arguments, you wouldn't manipulate statistics like the gender pay gap or 1-in-5-women-get-raped nonsense.
Best dialectic
The problem with your criticism of leftist indifference to optics is how liberals actually operate. If a liberal has a problem with a Nazi being punched, they will never be convinced to go left ANYWAY. Their having a problem with the Nazi being punched is indicative of an internal bias in favor of the Nazi over the leftist. They will NEVER be convinced. "Optics" is just a way of punching down to get social capital with a group of people who will at the very last minute betray you when the choice is the rights of you or the fascist.
Please tell me this isnt the last time we see Tabby/Tabbi.....
All the love. In 1981 I was 8 yo and I wanted to be Spider Woman, because of evil comic books.  Years decades of ambiguity, not all bad, hanging out with gay punks and goths, cross playing in D&D and other RPGs, having a great fucking life.  Theater, playing in bands, being aggressively weird yet shy and sometimes dangerously anti machismo.  I'm ok being CIS, hetero, somewhat effeminate skinny white boy.  I think your efforts are good for all of us
That was strangely arousing
This was truly brilliant. I've shifted between thinking like Tabby and Justine over the years (still figuring it out, and always will be), and you represented the struggle to find common ground and see both sides of the debate on Leftist tactics in such a nuanced and entertaining way. I kept expecting you to clearly favor one side over the other, but you walked the narrow path very eloquently; at least that's my interpretation.
Lol @ 7:11
@5:38 As someone who judt spent three hours trying to add pictures and yellow text in InDesign, this offends me
There's a balance between the two. Visually-appealing emotionally-poignant content often surpasses story-driven theory-delving works, to the point that the Slasher and Found Footage genres of horror movies were so financially successful that they saw massive influxes. Only after people have grown bored of their oversaturation in the marketplace do concept-oriented analyses (ergo, deconstructions and decon/recon content) get the chance to be fully appreciated. Hell, even anime...how many people would recognize the protagonists of a Shonen action anime with its emphasis on the spectacle of fighting and powers (Goku from DBZ, Luffy from One Piece, Naruto from Naruto, even Ichigo from Bleach or )  Personally, I've never really cared about how I present myself. I like what I like, I value what I value, and while I can justify my beliefs and actions with logical reflection if desired...since I am me and I am not anyone else, I feel it's fair to not pretend to be someone else or force myself to try and be someone I am not. Individualism and all that jazz. Which...I should compose a Jazz-style cover of a modern Country song for my friend violinist. Yeah, that would be awesome...
Okay I think you're one of the greatest things that happened to Youtube
at 7:04 you used the tower as a horse? bitch wtf?????
AWESOME
WHAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAT DUUUDE this is so brilliant... its true.. ice cold motherfuckers... my god.... its true........
"Hello fellow whites!"
I just gained at least 10 IQ points
Marxist theory wrapped in a cupcake?? Yas.
It's not necessarily that anti-SJWs are unpopular or uncool, that's beside the point. The issue is how SJWs have been represented, as being evil. SJWs are made out to be this group of sociopaths that are preying on weaker men to push a women's agenda, and as black people lying about their disenfranchisement. If not that, they're made to seem incorrect in other ways.  For example taking a discussion about race; specifically are black Americans more likely to commit crimes? This is a subject that requires competency and research to establish the truth on, with an immense amount of pressure to report accurately due to the consequences of an erroneous conclusion. If you come to the conclusion that black people tend to commit more crimes, then you are interpreted as a racist rather than merely wrong. And this is also a problem because the person doing it is indeed wise enough to know that their conclusions may also be used by racists to try to justify their own dogma and racist worldviews.  The thing about trying to learn the truth is that it's significantly harder. Truth isn't something that the world just gives to people for free. Especially in statistical analysis, and liars also confound the issues. As now everyone has to take time out of their own lives to spend researching new facts, in order not to be racists, if they even are the kind of people who care if someone calls them racist.  And after a certain point people start to take shortcuts. They decide "well in the absence of opposition and more and more people reinforcing my viewpoints here, and also in addition to that, only seeing strawmen of the opposition, I might as well accept black people commit more crimes."  It can take a lot of time to get to the point where you understand why the sentence "black people commit more crime" doesn't indicate that they should be given more attention by the police. But when you figure it out, it's a magic moment. Of course by that point the amount of time spent defending yourself amidst being labelled has produced a lot of fuck ups.   The bullying that SJWs receive doesn't make them uncool. If anything, digging around in FBI statistics to try discerning whether or not something is true whilst someone berates you constantly by just saying 'Feminists are better than you' isn't a cool way to spend the afternoon.
I actually looked for references to Eastern Cameroon communism because it sounded similar to another commune I was told about that was 'smashed by western imperialism'. What the adorable cat doesn't mention is that there was a violent overthrow of the capitalists. At least if it's the one I'm thinking about.  There isn't any example of communism, then, which hasn't resulted in violence.  I don't think it would be a wise idea to advocate killing people for wealth and power.
Tabby has evolved so much as a character since her introduction
<3 Tabby <3
This was published on my 28th birthday.  Thank you.
I hate that Antifa is one of the most misunderstood concepts today.
I mean I really sound like a 'centrist' here but like communist revolution rhetoric and hammer and sickle tags isn't just 'bad optics'! It's outright justifying another criminal regime and I can't but wonder how come people don't see the similarity! Punching and whatever isn't... Bad rhetoric it's nothing but violence! Yeah, I get it sometimes the fascists wouldn't  stop otherwise, but like 'liberals get the bullet too' wtf?! How come this is by anyone hating fascists and violence considered normal!?  As someone from East Europe.... Just damn no. My country was occupied, people murdered, forced to work, to death, economy ruined, etc etc by the Soviets. Soviet symbols belong to the same trashbin as the Nazi symbols do.
obviously this was amazing, but i didn't appreciate the chess game narrative structure. you can tell contrapoints has no idea how to play chess.
Welp, Leftist Catgirl 2020. Make it happen.
Warning: Pendant fact incoming! <lol sorry>  Pre Franco Spain was a thriving communist country until er Franco duh.  The other was Isreal which based it's existence on the Kibbutz system which still exists in a diminished role tho Isrealis still send there kids there to see first hand how Jews lived and worked in the early days of the country's beginnings.  Goes back to lurking.
Had to return to this video in the wake of the Tucker Carlson situation. This video (and all of your content) is potent brain food.
This was hilarious :D
this mofo should be on SNL!
Most of us are not part of Antifa. Antifa is a whole other ball of wax.
I am now onto rewatching your videos. <3
Would have been way funnier if after "a fascist" the event is completely shut down by AntiFa.
Degenerates like you belong on a cross
This was... pretty brilliant.   Also "I'm gonna go bash the fasc" may just be my new favorite phrase
I fucking love tabby... She is the most sexy...
I have a sudden desire to read Marx in an elevator all day.
6:44 Guy Debord?
The book covers are actually are really good idea
Thats no fascist at the door there. A fascist would walk in and put bullets in both of em.
Only one nazi got punched. He got punched twice but thats besides the point...
Its not our fault that we are smarter than the right...
The left absolutely has a PR problem that channels like ContraPoints, Shaun & Jen, HBomberguy and PhilosophyTube are working hard to change. Good luck
Shows mostly political stereotypes. Most Fascist who aren't stupid go for the original Fascism preposed by Filippo Tommaso Marinetti (had to copy paste the name) and his syndicast friend and Hitler's bizarre fantasy world he created for Germany. And many Communist have good arguments despite that there solution to the problem is a decapitation for a headache.
“I’m not a communist” -has Mao on her wall
We need to be cool mother fuckers.
Types "what we need is social justice, drugs, and rock and roll" into Google   Google: did you mean: what we need is *punk culture*
Was that a Hegelian word salad or did it actually makes sense in context? Could've been a quote from phenom. for all I know. Just curious.
I am not sure what I just watched.  But it was interesting.
Where are you?
Another problem: american leftists look weird
Furiously taking notes "ice...cold... mother...fucker... "  and "am I allowed to say yaaas queen?"
I like how you criticise the word dialetic on a dialetic. It's brilliant!
You inspire me.
Social Justice Drugs and Rock and Roll? We've got Punk Rock!
For me the important pragmatical leftist goals are: - Universal healthcare - High quality public education - Regulation to fix market deficiencies.  - Not having very excessive inequality - Protection of civil rights. - Protection of the environment - No disfunctional representative system (democracy)  Therefore my conception of ideal state is something like Denmark. I don't see how you can ever convert in Denmark with a revolution. You need to implement incremental changes in the good direction. When people see that those changes are good changes, they support more incremental changes. Scandinavian countries took 80 years (started in the 1930s), and most Western countries 50-60 years (they started in the 1950s). I'm from Spain, Franco died in 1975 so we started later, a reason why we have higher ineqality than most Europe... but man, big change since the 70s!!   I see radical lefts as delusionals and harming left pragmatical positions, as they scare parts of the population. Antifas harms the goals they pretend to defend. Communism and anarchism usually creates more inequality because it fuels right movements and deters incremental change. They don't offer much to pragmatical political discussion (proposals for doable new law in education or healthcare).   Please, contribute to a more leftist USA... abandoning radical positions. Because beating nazis probably is cool, but it's actually damaging the cause. If you actually care the left agenda.
This was a good video but it’s obsolete now that we have Comrade Gritty.
honestly i agree with 99% of what tabby says
Is that a transvestite?
Left can't meme.
Is it weird that I really want them to get together?   Natalie I've only been watching your vids for two days but I would sacrifice my 10 year non voting streak for you, love from one of your Antifa cat girls.
Wow the first time I saw this video it was so hard for me to understand the conversation, it mostly sounded like gibberish cause I was so ignorant about a lot of the terms. But I think I actually enjoyed it more now that I've gotten more educated by watching your content and that of other leftists on YouTube 😁
Shit girl, what sort of "leftists" have you been hanging out with? And we tried social justice, drugs and rock'n'roll in the early nineties. It was fun, but a lot of us died. Have to say, it's a genuine relief to have found this channel. Hearing politics (and other things) discussed with intelligence and objectivity has been such a fucking rarity these past few years that I was beginning to feel like disengaging from the process altogether.    The absence of Rock 'n' Roll from the lives of entirely too many people is definitely one of the major problems that modern society faces. It's _so_ fucking obvious now that I think about it.   Goddamnit.
You are fucking amazing lol !!!!
damn where did you find that version of Funeral March of a Marionette?
real communism doesn't lead to starvation and a collapse of society, selfish assholes manipulating everyone into letting them run everything leads to starvation and a collapse of society.
bash the fash sounds like a masturbation euphemism
Holy shit your videos are making me like 'the right' more, couldn't agree with the presentation more unless you changed "the white" since people from the middle east ARE white. It's the culture that is wrong and bad. I say this as a person who escaped Islamic tyranny. Your intellectual approach to things won't cut with the brute force of their culture. You don't understand... I escaped only to realize there is no escaping because only the brute can beat the brute and the west has gone full sissy. You don't understand what you're dealing with, this shit will doom us to another dark age to which the question isn't will it come but when will it come. You do not understand and you won't listen because you know so much better, this whole order will fall on its foolish face. Because an enlightened civilization is the best one as long its people aren't complacent and we are living in an advanced sedantic civilization which has become complacent. You will be replaced by people who look like you, the Muslim, who will stop flooding into Europe eventually but the initial injection is enough to start the initial conversion process, and Europe will become Muslim most likely because of the power vacuum that has been left over by the eradication of the preceding classical culture. And you are helping them along... Because you are so smart, and we who escaped this shit, and we who try to reform this shit that you intellectuals of the acedemic making call us fascists and allow without looking at history as to what happened to the Romans in the exact same situation when during Their Roman Peace middle easterners and their Abrahamic ideas started moving in through the empire and infecting it, until it collapsed under the brutal regime of Christians, and other various barbarians. I just hope there is a rebirth but there probably won't be because once these things start they don't seem to stop until a society is completely annihilated and recomposed. Nm that, I am just sad that you, O great intellectual, don't listen to us fools
Regressive regressive regressive. The regressive left. Classical libertarian. Free marketplace of ideas. Oppression olympics. Regressive.
anyone want communist manifestos with contras design?
Hail victory indeed!
Wagner playing during the fascists intro. I see what u did there m8
We need Rage Against the Machine!
I’ve only recently discovered your videos thanks to H Bomberguy but I plan to eat my way through your back catalogue. You’ve also convinced me to move further away from ironic labeling that’s basically just injokes for other leftists. All the most successful leftists who made real differences since the formation of wanky philosophy built on longass words have been things like trade unionists and community leaders.   It’s a hell of a lot more effective than arguing semantics with your local leftbook admins until you get blocked because the material conditions (and hence the problems and solutions) of your country don’t match theirs
This is literally a masterpiece. You are an intellectual force!
" Only the dead are truly smart, truly cool. Nothing touches them. While I live, however, I side with the bumbling suffering crooked life, with anger rather than boredom, with sweet lust, hunger and carelessness...against the icy avant-guard and its fashionable premonitions of the sepulcher." Hakim Bey
It's like watching the entire country go crazy again like they did about terrorism in the 2000's.  No matter what you say, you have to wait for them to wake up themselves to their own insanity.  There's no terrorists (or racists) under your bed.  And these things are a problem but the solutions used are so ridiculously toxic they are exacerbating the perceived problem 100 fold and creating it in so many places were it never existed before.  Good to see Contra ever so slightly waking up to this?
As an uber conservative I got very mildly ruffled by CERTAIN characterizations; but have to admit that's pretty good lmao. Kudos
Do you people really think facist,racist,alt right and nazi still mean anything to sane normal people???? It's been beaten more to death.
I ship it
What's making people nervous about the liberals getting angry is that it's _women_ getting angry. The examples of cool anger shown were men. Men and right-wingers are angry and violent and posturing all the time and no one bats an eye. But when women do it, it's a problem. They're expected to smile more.
Is ContraPoints trying to seduce ContraPoints?
...... none of those chess pieces were queens.....
Yes! I'm so sick of actual Nazis having better marketing than the left. So much time spent laughing about how dumb and outrageous the right wing has gotten, but very little spent asking why they consistently beat us on messaging.
as someone who grew up in an antifa scene (and grew out of this dumb shit), this made me laugh out loud several times, great video indeed! A lot of the points mentioned are indeed things the left needs to overcome to become relevant in people's minds again.
i love your little nods to vaporwave XD
I want to inhabit you like Who wants to be John Malkovich
If the ideas of this video are not adopted and the contrary ideologies of modern America continue to develop in opposite directions, I do see a crash (or its opposite: a schism) happening. What would that look like? Well, the Antifa SJWs want the same thing as the Alt-Right: safe space=ethnic monoculture. So I can see a possible future where reality parallels current internet behaviour where SJWs congregate in one place (California) and Alt-Right congregate somewhere else (the Deep South). This will lead to entrenchment, conflict and the break away of any state that can sustain itself economically.  It's catastrophic thinking, I know, but the internet will do to politics what the printing press did to religion if we can't all figure out how to live together in disharmony.  (Meanwhile, China will take over because they don't seem to be distracted by  the politics of The Individual)
Your counter-revolutionary, trotskyite.. T E N D E N C I E S. 😂😂😂😂😂😂😂
Anarcho syndicalists won't be promoting stalinist views anytime soon.
9:33  >defensive violence >other people's rally
Ur mum gay
Boopity Boo Libs get the bullet too
Typical middle-class bullshit and capitalism utopianism that always lead left to decay. Fortunately, radical organisations tend to act among the working class and rely on the emotions of social anger, not liberal balancing.
Hi I'm going on a ContraPoints binge so here I am.  As someone who is often branded a "toothless centrist", I really very much enjoyed this video. You showed, really well, why I distanced myself very seriously from the radical left. I stopped glorifying violence, stopped with the guillotine memes, and read up on everything I possibly could so I actually understood where my opposition was coming from. I calmed myself. Made myself "cool", as you put it here, and, since doing that, I've managed to convince more people of my point of view than I ever could have while shouting "Punch the Nazis" and verbally berating everyone I deemed as "ideologically impure." I've also realized that, in this current climate, compromises are necessary. The possibility of a successful communist revolution with an actually good long-term outcome in the current state of society in the US is, quite honestly, a long-shot. There's not enough support for it, and not enough people who understand what actual communism is, because the only major exposure to it that anyone has had in the last few years were/are absolutely horrifying dictatorships that led to starvation and death to an incredible amount of people.  If we don't work to educate people, we will never change their minds
can you please make that marx-engels reader cover available as a print out????
I like stuff!!!
I hate that I am the smartest gay I know... I hate that you're the smartest (fill in the blank) that I don't know. Solve that.
I think this was one of the best videos I've seen on this channel, it just works so well. I'm a leftist and I study politics and social services at university. I run into alot of far left communist types and at the start I was very much interested in what they had to say but now I keep away. Although I'm more of a democratic socialist I empathise with them but the way they go about spreading their message is detrimental not only to them but the left as a whole. They've burst into lectures, constantly harass everyone and show up and try and sell you stuff at rallies they don't have anything to do with. They are now despised on campus which ruins any leftists groups chance to gain stable ground. For them it's mostly about the image then the goal, they like the idea of being a radical so much that they no longer care about public perception. Unfortunately this sets not only them back but every other left leaning person back too. They need to understand the consequences of poor public perception.
*Gordon Ramsey voice* FINALLY some good fucking takes!
THIS VIDEO IS A MASTERPIECE
Does anyone know where to find literature on the eastern kamerun communist period?
Hail satan
Done it. Patreon now. No date option tho :’( iiiiiits faaaaine
This is so clever. It blows my mind. How do i patreon you? And how do i date you?
social justice, drugs, and rock n roll
3:23 basically why I can't go eco-warrior. I like stuff.
I would love to see you on the sam harris podcast:) love your work:)
a e s t h e t i c music
ok but tabby is me irl
I have that exact copy of the Marx/Engels reader. I think it's standard issue for philosophy undergrads.
There's no way in hell I can hear the music at 0:38 and not envision that sumptuously fat, floral-wreathed horse bounding down the hill like some kind of equine goddess, with a cross-dressed Bugs Bunny on its back. <3
yknow? im what ppl consider an “angry sjw uwu” and like, this is one of the few good videos questioning leftism ive actually seen. its still poking fun at the our teen weeb aesthetic, but theres no making fun of lgbt people and our identities, or or using straw arguments, or making us a human personification of the “autistic screeching” meme. its a video which lets you sympathize with both sides, address shit we actually say and do without painting ppl as “angry ess jay double u feminazis uwu” and is all in all a well written video with good counter points from both sides, regardless of if people agree with them or not. real cool of you to make this! ill definitely show it to some of my friends.
HA the Vaporwave Marx Reader made me laugh. And social justice, drugs, and [various kinds of music] is basically my life already! Great video. I don't know how I only just now found your stuff.
Man, Wagner's music is greate!
My one complaint about this video is that it fails to capture the sort of nihilistic hopeless "bash the fash" that exists among the great many of us who've looked at the reality of our current political landscape, at the reality of climate change, at the reality of entrenched systems, and have decided that there is nothing productive to do. There truly is no revolution. There's just revenge. And I feel morally and ethically compelled to keep trying to improve things even in the face of futility--I think it would be wrong to do otherwise--but I don't for a second confuse that for real hope.   We're fucked. I mean, that's the real truth of it, right? And we can keep fighting all the way down like goddamned good people or we can lay down and it happen. There's a middle ground between those that Justine here is espousing, but it only exists for those who believe there's any reason to pursue it.   I don't think anything in this video is wrong. I just have a hard time grappling with how it might fit with my worldview, and in the end I don't think it does, and I don't think I'm anywhere close to alone in that worldview.
Love this style! Cool video!
you are to the left what arca is to music today. i love you
I lolled. A lot.
Tabby is my hero
you know, you can argue than most of the traditionals societies were communist. Look at the kula, the potlatch or the affluents societies as described by Sahlins
Your brain is so sexy
Im surprised how compeling your point about being cool is. I thought at first it was gonna be a dumb joke but you are cool, by your definition, and that does make you and, by extension, your ideas more appealing and i would absolutely read hegel if it had those covers. I might sound stupid or only take what you said as is, but I like to think I'm aware of my biases and tht i am a confroming centrist, so hey, maybe all you said is true.
I love your channel because it's peak libra
Does anyone know the song name at 5:37? Thanks!
I own the same Marx-Engels reader and I’ve never bothered to open it 🙃
I enjoy these videos, and I'm an ancap. Antifa has shit optics, the left really needs some M A R X W A V E.
You seem to be unhappier in these earlier episodes. Or maybe you just got better at acting?
It's really weird to see a clip of my friend as an exhibit of an "uncool" figure.
The problem the Left is they don't understand that their current tactics are a waste of time. Especially when the vast majority of people have negative associations with both the far left and far right for different reasons. Take advantage of capitalism, grow high-value skills and dominate the market. Improve capitalism by becoming part of the 1% so that your battle actually has the chance to make real change occur.
love the wagner during the fascist speech
I want the Left to be the best it can be. Here's a video with what we might call a feminist activist ex-Muslim Canadian and a Canadian Jew who was a kind of refugee from Lebanon . Both have critical words for The Left from this perspective.  Why is that not worth considering?  The problem is the use of right wing buzzwords that are somewhat inaccurate given their genuine definitions (postmodernism, etc.) but represent their Real Lived Experience.  Especially a female who escaped a forced marriage to Al-Qaeda.  She should be a leading champion for Leftists instead of being rejected and despised. "My goal is to tear down Linda Sarsour ..." ~ Yasmine Mohammed Why does she have to aim to do that with Dave Rubin instead of with someone more from Leftist politics? https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZgTP4Pasf7A
Absolutely brilliant! I'm going to use this (and other ContraPoints videos) in some of the college courses I teach.
my god, you are absolutely phenomenal. i am so glad i found this channel.
It feels so good to hear from someone on my own team who isn't whacked out on shrooms.
Neither of them know how to play chess... I feel like that's a meta joke somehow but I don't get it
You're fucking genius
That mouth twitch right after the "No!" was fucking perfect.  Oh, and the video was very thoughtful and edifying.  "I'm an anarcho-syndicalist." COME AND SEE THE VIOLENCE INHERENT IN THE SYSTEM, HELP, HELP, I'M BEING REPRESSED
Talking with fascists has its place. Too. You seem to think of liberals as unprincipled but we are capable of dissecting fascist and racist movements as well with honest tactics.   Moreover, fascists fall on their face and look absolutely "uncool" all the time. Be it serious scandals such as domestic abuse and rape threats toward their own side or small stuff like being heralded by fat neckbearded edge loads. The alt-right and its constant rebranding will not take over America.
I _really_ like Tabby. :D
God the music choices are soooo goood
#freemarketlyfe  Well done! It's been a wonderful break from Sargon. Although I'll always love Dankula, probably because I was in TEST.  o7 Fly safe.
Love the tribute to vaporwave ❤️
So great! I fully endorse ice cold motherfucker politics for the left!
that was truly inspiring
So, in the video where you tell that fascists try to cover up their power level. Isn't this just the same? Aren't you covering radical ideas in a more accessible cover?  I do agree though. It's hard to have a conversation with someone who loses their cool. So I think it's not "hip" or "propaganda-like" to stay cool (as you suggest), it's practical.
hey most of my stuff was made by slaves too!
What is this Team Mystic propaganda.
I think Earthling Ed is a good example of someone who is cool yet unpopular (with the mainstream).  The left needs more people like him.
that white and black wig tho <3
this has summed up and clarified a lot of things for me. this is a good channel
Not that I disagree with any of these points - but doesn't it seem a little weird that the right never has to have these sorts of conversations?  I mean, they don't have to appeal to moderates or centrists... they just let their freak flag fly and still win.  And it doesn't even matter how moderate or controlled a leftist portrays themselves, half the country is still going to make believe they're to the left of noam chomsky.
Why does the leftist look more like Melanie Martinez?
Love the self-referential meta of this video. You are literally promoting Marxist ideas that otherwise none would learn about by wrapping them in a high quality, "cool" production. Workers of the world, unite!
damn this girl has a Mao portrait.
"social justice, drugs and rock and roll " shit how can i reject that?
Ice cold leftism is the only way
the bells jingling got me :D this was a really really interesting conversation
I am astonished by your wisdom and acumen. I learn scores from your videos. Thanks for your work on this channel. The presentation is great, you always have me laughing, and I needs must mention again how much I learn from you.
Lol better hope the Trump crisis blows over
Yeap. That's Jordan Peterson's idea of the "left". Don't you have real left in USA?
I like figures like the Matrix's Neo. Self-composed and slightly reserved but with warm undertones. They should rule the world! ;-) But I guess the war can be won only by the ice cold mofos.
Libertarian minded straight brown nigga right here. Big fan of your channel. Love the truediltom reference. Both of y'all got fly taste in music. And mad props for being so audaciously trans. You remind me of my homegirl in Seattle. She probably a subscriber too. Staying true and holding it down. Much needed fucking role for the community. I don't think I'd be able to do what you do without drinking at least twice as more than your ass. Your video on the lobster one had me hysterical. Especially the part in the bath.
Am I the only anarcho-capitalist here? I´m feeling lost !
I like Jacky!
This is amazing honestly, thank you for the effort
"You seem to not even care about what's actually possible, that's how deep you are in pure theory. And if anything is anti-marxist, it's that."  Daaaaamn girl
an anarcho syndaclist with a red on red and a hammer and sickle? lol
i'm only here for the intelligent humor, creative delivery, interesting topics and original perspective
Love the reference to Bruce and Trixie at the end! I’ve only just discovered this channel, and have instantly become a huge fan of the intelligent, nuanced take on issues. I’m also loving the humour and aesthetic, and the cast of characters, so the callback to the previous video where you already tried this kind of dialogue is superb, and helps cement the feel of a contained ContraPoints universe. Keep up the work, these videos are by far and away some of the best content on YouTube, and very valuable and thought-provoking. And laugh out loud funny!
Jeez Contre, just how many different costumes do you have? They're great.
Tag yourself I'm the leftist
For all thing's Anarcho-syndicalist check out libertarian socialist rants
These roleplays are great!
"Victory Gin". I feel so smart for getting that. Sorry if that's depressing but it's true.
this is SO goood
But...is it true that for-itself can only be actualized through the in-itself? I wanna know, damnit!
My only critique of this is that I think you painted with too broad a brush. Your caricature of the left is a homolgomation of aynsyns, trots, SJWs, and I guess leftcoms?  There is little utility in painting "the left" with so broad a brush. We're talking about schools of thought that fundamentally disagree on both methods and motives. There will never be "left unity" because "the left" is defined only by our opposition to "the right," a term nearly as vague as its opposite. The left will never agree on how to confront the problem because we disagree on what the problem is, and we also fundamentally disagree on the best way to go about combating the problem.   It's okay to be specific about who you are and who you oppose. I'm a Marxist Leninist and I am opposed to Imperialism above all else because I believe that imperialism is the greatest barrier to working class power, and I believe that all the specific forms of oppression are expressions of imperialism. Therefore, to dismantle bigotry, poverty, etc, we have to confront the root of the problem. This belief and approach differs on a fundamental level from the beliefs and approaches of anarchists, leftcoms, trots, etc. Anarchists, for example, barely (if ever) recognize the existence of imperialism at all.  I think this video is pretty good overall as its criticisms of certain elements of the left ring true. We do need to be doing a better job of cultivating an image that is appealing to the masses. We also need to do a better job of meeting people where they're at instead of demanding people abandon their fundamental beliefs at the drop of a hat. All that being said, however, I felt that the video fell a bit flat on how to move forward. Simply improving PR will not move us forward. Only class struggle can do that. I agree with Boots Riley for the most part on this. We have to prove to the masses that our methods work by winning real material victories, not symbolic ones. Only then can we begin to build a working class movement. An appealing public image is a component of that, for sure, but without the class struggle component, it will be just as futile as knocking over trash cans.
I'm a Liberal, and I'm watching. :P
Darn. No girl on girl action! D:
Too pink. It needs some purple! Come on, girl!
7:30-7:50  Wow that is the most accurate destruction of fringe-extremist group mindset I have ever seen, well done and GG🍻
tabby is me
You are so so so wonderful <3
Alex Jones has this video on his phone.
Not trying to be rude, but it's first time when i found channel about transgender person that's into science, politics, and not into make up and wigs. Amazing content, subbed
This is why I love Natalie, she doesn’t pretend that one side is perfect. Her videos say “hey I like what you’re trying to do, but maybe do it this way.“
I loooove tabi 😍 she's cool to me
Amazing channel! The internet is a headfuck and its good to hear some(what) level headedness. Quite a relief actually. Your cool.
Leftist cat girl is awesome........and adorable
Absolutely love the book cover makeovers 😂
Well you won this centrist over AHAHHAHAHA
THE QUALITY AND AESTHETIC OF THIS VIDEO IS SO GOOOOODDD
Hi Tatiana Maslany I really love your acting!  On a more serious note, it seems like the less-radical-but-still-kinda-left crowd had it right with the coolness and memes? I mean, the one fucking headline I vividly remember, of all things, went something like "One group Bernie Sanders is very popular with is peddlers and producers of internet memes"
Natalie spending 20 minutes arguing with herself is the successor of the Socratic dialogues.
Was I the only one who imagined Elmer Fudd wielding his spear and magic helmet during the opening speech?
the catgirl still makes all the best points in this video though
Anywhere approaching the middle is one of the hardest places to be in any debate.  You don't have the solidarity available to those who pick one side or the other, and your fellow in-the-middlers are more likely to quibble with you over minor differences of opinion than to effectively oppose an extremist group.  Also...good grief, you're attractive.
You really hit upon something, I never put to words before but rings so true to me, it really is that detachment that appeals to so many centrists
Love you, hail satan!
Hay what’s wrong with Trots
Interesting! This is what I was trying to tell all my liberal friends ( before trump) who don't understand the culture war! Instead they shunned me and think I am a trump supporter lol. While I do agree that the left no longer has that cool rock and roll vibe! (One of the reasons why they took an L) I think it's too late to get it back! thanks to the regressive feminists who are gatekeepers and complain about every little thing as micro transgressions. Kudos for the Van Halen riff! But I think the new rebellion that are about that life are the kekistan boys and the troll edgelords! Not the sjw nor the alt right!
E N J O Y  Y O U R S E L F
Market socialism or bust, you beta commie fuckers. Also doxing people is still a crime and a scumbag move, even if said people are dickbags.
Contra, your articulation of multiple viewpoints makes me sapiosexual.
7:21 to 7:45  THE CRUX AND CORE of TANKY COMMUNISTS ARE A JOKE.
can agree, good shit
I am literally in love with you. You're doing the lord's work!
ehh tbh i love the leftist haha, even down to the cat stuff and hissing (especially that!) soo on point. though i gotta agree ice cold is a good idea !
you're so sexy when you're pretending to be a Nazi <3 But I think that's just because I'm a filthy degenerate man who likes women who talk in authoritative tones.
I like stuff! I like this, and I like this, and I like this! That's why I can't be a communist!
New subscriber here! I love these videos a lot and this one is extremely important to the left. I feel as if the visuals and memes of the left are actually pretty damn confusing to the average person who isn't used to this sort of thing, but also understanding that at times the violence is necessary. That was a great point made. I eventually slipped onto the leftist side due to Black influencers like Angela Davis and Fred Hampton, who spoke on issues like this. Hoping your observations and skits here will gain more attention!
The problem I see with communism is a group mentality where in what is perceived as good for the group overrides the needs of individuals and their needs. This was highlighted pretty well in a debate with Laci Green against a TERF marxist (can't remember her name) and she argued that it doesn't matter if a woman does something they feel is personally empowering if it is perceived to make women look bad, or is perceived to hurt women causes.
wagner intro
No, sjw arguments suck aswell as the way they act
I, unironically, would fuck tabby.
What's it say about me, that I'm SUPER into Tabby's cat ears and fangs and anime hair look? 😆  My strange proclivities aside, I love the way you show the catch-22 of how good intentions and ideals keep getting lost amongst the rhetoric and increasingly berzonkers extremist tendencies people are falling into these days. She's got some good points, but it's overshadowed by an inability to look at things from a more rational perspective, and things only seem to be getting worse, not better. Each time one side of the politically extreme perspective pushes, the other side pushes back even harder, with neither coming out the victor in an ever-increasing escalation.  Also, don't mind me, I just found your channel and have been bingewatching everything for the past couple of days because it's all so good. I probably look like a wierdo with all of these comments I'm leaving. I promise, I'm not. 😖
7:34
I love these characters together. The chess debate was adorable and informative!
I'm on a huge ContraPoints binge, and I'm convinced that this channel is pretty much the best thing to ever happen to YouTube.
“This detached, ironic, pretend-not-to-give-a-shit posturing that white men mistake for rationality is really just a self-celebration of privileged, comfortable ppl with nothing at stake” on point!
I'm not sure I'm feeling this one on the optics point of view. The standards are way off kilter, to where I could be, hell, have been playing ice cold and still get told I'm some sort of angry 'SJW' for suggesting something that isn't to the right of the American political spectrum (which is bloody frustrating as an Australian, policy wise the centre here is the mid left in the US).
i would buy the shit out of those synthwave engels readers. merch when, natalie?
This is one of your MOST important videos
I C E   C O L D   M O T H E R F U C K E R S
Brilliant, great work. As a person who supports both ANTIFA and Marxism, I found some salient points in this. Optics unfortunately matter.
THE HAND GESTURES AT THE BEGINNING AHAHA THIS IS PERFECT DOWN TO THE LAST DETAIL
Just found your channel. As a Christian, i disagree with your identity and blah blah blah. But this video is hilarious, well written/directed, and honestly, very thought provoking. Thanks for bringing awesome and high ideas to the common level, as it should be. I may not agree with you about everything, but i love your respect and ability to reason. KEEP DOING DIALOGUE BASED VIDEOS!   Not that it matters, but: subscribed.
6:24 FUUUUUCK
Have you any idea how f**king smug, irritating and nauseating you are ?
Sorry......this "tranny" makes me want to puke.
this video is what is playing in my brain 24/7
Unpronounceable Names... Hegel... come on US, it is not that hard
"Ice Cold Mother Fucker" sounds like a discription of what made Christopher Hitchens so loveable.  God damned cancer, right?
Sorry Contra, I love your videos but I can't agree with this one. If anything, it's up to centrists and the right to listen to what's being said rather than react to emotions and tone police. In fact, tone policing is one of their ways to unfairly (and in my opinion, immaturely) disempower the Left while they, unironically knee-jeek and react poorly at the slightest provocation that infringes on their privilege. (Their reactions can be subtle such as not hiring the disenfranchised to voting for Trump.)
I always expect your "other" to be a dumb strawman like other YouTubers would have. But you surprise me every time by earnestly arguing their points.
9:05 I know I may be sounding unaware of global events, but is that a Metal Gear Solid Peacewalker reference?
5:35 m a r x i s t w a v e
What about leftists adopt the alt-right strategy of denial. Me? A Maaaaarxist? No! I'm just saying the 1% globalist haves are screwing the middle-class over. Wink wink ;) ;).  Why am I being shut down? I just believe in free speech and liberty. If I am not invited over by centrists to talk about my views it's because they are in the pocket of the 1% polluting the water turning the frogs fascist.
I have no idea what all these terminologies mean, but GOD DAMN was that discourse entertaining to watch and listen to from a writer's stand point. Welp, I guess I have to be versed in all those political terminologies now...
Hahahahaha ice cold motherfuckers
THIS ID EXACTLY MY POINT. I'm an anti-fascist and antifa drives me mad sometimes because people see us harrassing people and don't realise how much we help and that leads to us being compared to fascists.
yuo are very funny
Both these bitches are bad at chess ngl
I love you both :(
Social justice and rock and roll sounds good to me. I personally don't do drugs, but you do you.  But in all seriousness, extremists ruin everything. It did get both the political left and right closer together than they've ever been, but I'm not giving them any credit for that. The right probably think their extremists are idiots, and I can imagine some other people on the left feeling the same about our extremists. Also, anger doesn't get your points across properly. You get branded an SJW, and nobody heard what you actually said. I'll give two example arguments that I could personally back:  "Facism is just not sustainable in the end, since it would require a dictatorship to work in practice. And you're pretty much cutting yourself off from human resources by completely barring immigrants, so any facist system that would actually work in practice is just heading for an economical collapse in the long run."  "Facism is not sustainable, because they want to kill us all! The alt-right is already lynching people in the streets, we can't allow this!"  Which one comes off as more believable to you? The ice cold motherfucker approach, it works. Also, add a dash of sass, it tends to prevent the actual alt-right from jumping you the moment you comment. Taking a deep breath before you line up your arguments is a good investment in the long run.
I've always noticed when I lose control of my anger I just make a fool of myself and make constant mistakes, but when I'm truly pissed off and stay calm, everyone listens, people change their perspectives, and things tend to work out in the favor of my argument.
geeeeenious
Yeah, neo-nationalists are REALLY winning by propaganda and charisma. We need that!
Yaaaaas, you get it.
Misrepresentation! Antifa are a lot more weak and frail than that. In fact, a single punch can turn one into a vegetable.
Social justice warriors have rather vapid 'reasons' behind their arguments.
Omg i'm Tabby, and i'm not even embarrassed.  SMASH!!!
"Hey, we arn't just violent, We also Dox" Thats fuckin worse lol wat.
Thanks for getting "Bash the Fash" stuck in my head for three days straight.
Contrapoints is bae!
Hey, commenting from the future! Not quite 30,000 people, more like 10,000 people, and now Unite The Right 2: Fascista-boogaloo was a major flop. You come a long way! Keep up the good work! 🍞
the nazi cosplay is fantastic. Also for those curious the vapor wave song is "Saint Pepsi - Enjoy yourself". More original than 420 I'll give ya that.
Really good video
I’m pretty liberal. When cat woman hissed the Nazi right out of the room I laughed. But man how militant antifa is. It’s a turnoff. I with the ice cold cool motherfucker.
...I'm gonna need "Social Jusice, drugs, and rock and roll" on a T-shirt, yesterday.
I haven't been this engaged with a youtube channel since the early days of ShaneDawson. I hope theres lots of young kids secretly watching and growing up on ConrtaPoints the way I was with Shane, Contra is the future.
11:56 It's just as American philosophers Andre Lauren Benjamin and Antwan Andre Patton explained in their 2003 thesis, "Hey Ya."
I think people see me as left wing, but most of what this leftist in this video want I don't want, many you got the left wrong or I'm not left wing, I guess progressives are different from the left
Lol was just reading Hegel a couple hours ago and AKTWALLY the in-itself and for-itself ultimately synthesize into the next stage of consciousness by becoming aware of the contradictions between them. TAKE THAT SCHOPENHAUER
Someone needs to throw money at u for a legit show. U are so godamn creative and have built such an intresting world with ur charicters.  Its so subtle, if its not in ur face.  I love it.
I know I'm late, but can anyone explain what Tabby said at the beginning?
Full on leftist (according to definition, personally I find the labels to be pretty stupid) here. This video is fucking spot on.
Wow I really wanna be an ice cold motherfucker
was that a John Adams clip??
ok but i unironically have a crush on tabby tho
This was so good 👍🏾
I love this video
I would kill for a copy of that vaporwave Marx-Engels Reader
The Trump hand gestures are a nice touch ;)
I may have missed it in another video but I would love to see an expansion on the idea of the "ice cold motherfucker" I deeply enjoy your videos and your discussion. I was actually having a conversation with a friend of mine about the need for the leftist to abandon the bubble principle of not wavering in optics or in educating oneself in rhetoric and topics outside those that already agree with our point of view.
Have you read the play the arsonists by max frisch? The main character is a kinda centrist type family man who lets 2 persuasive arsonists to sleep in the attic of his house. while he knows that they are making explosives with petrol fuel, he just lets them plan their explosions and even have dinner with them before the house got burnt in a fiery flame. The firefighters are kinda like the progressives as to warn the man of the arsonist but he ignored them
Good god. This is terrifyingly like the Facebook conversations I have with my friend Joe.
oh you thought she would say that dam
ive heard people use 1930ish spain as example of comunism, someone should make a movie about that, cause fuck books
Full disclosure: I'm...pretty far to your right politically. And you're brilliant, and entertaining as hell, and I'm sharing your videos with people across the sociopolitical spectrum. Kudos on making smart, witty contributions to the conversation.
This video has it all. Hilarious, interesting, great.
I won't lie, I put off watching this video for a while because sometimes looking at the mirror is hard. It's easy to see why the right is wrong, but figuring out how the left is wrong and how to improve ourselves is scary. It's kind of enlightening--it's easy to see why so many people don't want to objectively inspect themselves and their identities. If we all did, then I think it would be way easy to talk out our differences. But until then, we need to figure out how to be productive and have useful praxis.
This video is pure gold. You're awesome. I'm glad YouTube's elitist algorithm led me to this video.
Although I generally disagree with your opinions you are pretty damn funny
Follow -up video on ideas for leftwing idealists to become stone cold killas?also, i love your mind :D
"hello fellow whites"  how I'm starting all my conversations from now
I love this girl. I love how she's not hating on the left and even says stuff like "you might be right in theory but that isn't how we're going to stop the fascists."  Like the catgirl was totally right that the black bloc might save your life someday. That doesn't mean you have to be scary and intimidating to liberals, that's /only/ necessary when you're face-to-face with actual fascists. It's not respectability politics, who cares if the corporate elites like you, it's just being a genuine friend and a genuine member of the working-class communities you're supposed to represent
Third time watching this in two weeks. Very very well made.
I'd absolutely read your book, you should write it
can we bring tabby back?
I understand why Wagner's Tannhäuser is used as an audible cue for "fascist", but I'll be damned if I could deny how wonderfully beautiful, dramatic and defiantly romantic that particular piece of music is. Most certainly a high point of Western culture, to keep to the vernacular;)
You're videos do look beautiful. I'd die to have you direct a music video for me 😍
M A R X T H E T I C..../music plays...
4:53 You stole my Marx-Engels reader!
Damn, this is good. Just a total pragmatist here.
05:53
I'm so glad to have found your channel and disappointed I'd not known of it earlier!
This is too woke. I can't handle it.
There's left, and there's leeeft!... Here in the UK, the leftists are so left that they are falling off the edge of their own flat Earth theory, In this country they make it sound like it's a crime to be white. I once got bollocked for referring to this country as England; so what am I supposed to call it?, The Moon or what! :-/
How to desagree with a fascist when there's Wagner playing in the background?
mimosas!
God damn ContraPoints you deserve a freekin award for this video...SO GOOOOD!!!! kutgw!
I understand the criticism of the left in this video (and think the points are pretty good) but I cannot help thinking Tabby has a point... about pretty much everything.   Maybe not the "why should I bother" part...   I mean, I'm all about optics, and I wouldn't be able to use violence even if I wanted to (also, I don't even know if vandalizing buildings, sabotaging rallies and... I don't know what else has Atifa done to be considered violent, actually -- speaking of, the wikipedia page is ridiculously condemning but isn't providing descriptions of the alledged "physical violence" -- and the irony of anti-Maduro in Venezuela burning buildings (and killing people) not qualifying for condemnation for the Right doesn't escape me. Anyways, the term 'violence' draws an unfair comparison of equivalence between one 'violence' and the other, which ...no), but... yeah.
Just a republican, passing through.
@ContraPoints I find your content extremely witty, insightful, and offensive -- for all the right reasons. I don't agree w/ you entirely on particular topics, but I DO respect your conviction & sense of integrity. Keep at it, [insert pronoun here]. *no pun intended*  Thank you. ^__^
I love you gurrrllll
Fascists have a branding (optics) problem too, they're apocalyptic depressives who can't understand women, they are also a vanishingly small segment of the population. I honestly don't see them as a threat and I don't understand why far-leftist ideologues fetishize them so much, well actually I do, you're a bunch of larping revolutionaries who need an enemy in order to justify your socially-dissociated, edgy and juvenile existence. Antifa are not "frightening"  they're pathetic and disgust-inducing, there's a big difference. Everything you do pushes reasonable people to the right. You are the face of petulance, resentment and vice - the politics of losers.  Good video btw.
I don't know if I should feel bad about having had this exact conversation almost word for word several times just in this recent month. It did turn a former neofash into a ML though (don't ask me how I managed to do that while advocating for anarcho-syndicalism).
She didnt spit when she said trotskite NOT  A REAL COMMUNIST
That cat has some pretty solid ideas.
Holy shit this is really great.
This is a perfect rendition between myself and ...myself, and every other progressive I debate with
This really closely captures this dark, destructive antifa doppleganger vs bougie glamour-puss stuff-fiend that I ALSO have word/cat-fighting around in my head (sometimes out loud...to myself). I am SO friggin called out at both ends. You are Chinese finger-cuffing my bullshit right now and I’m loving it! And, on a more reasoned note, your equitably partitioned constructive criticism is really inspiring. Love.
Sorry to be posting  late, but this is a perfect example of exactly what happens when I try to have conversations like this with my leftist friends who mean well, but can't understand why randomly going in the street and punching a Nazi in the face for no apparent reason other than he is a Nazi does more to hurt their cause than help it. Smh
I'm nowhere near being a lefty but if everyone on the left (and right tbh) was as reasonable as Contra the world would be a much better place
I thought this was a brilliant critique of today's Leftists. As a lefty myself I totally agree with your analysis of what is wrong with the Left. (Branding is everything.)
Can someone give me evidence of the behind the scene stuff antifa is doing. Im more interested then skeptic
There have been working communist groups, America just instantly kills all of them
Despite Tabi being everything wrong with my team these days I still think she is smokin hot....fangs and all.
I feel above all else, I value that your videos are fair when it comes to taking sides. I think being fair is the best, and most honest thing we can do to bring people together. I think we could all learn to be cooler mother fuckers. You keep making videos, I'll keep watching :)
I never knew you liked Vaporwave *.*
Keep on pretending. Keep on trying.  Keep on lying. Keep on condescending. Keep on building that frail tower of morality and "justice" while the pressure of reality slowly degrades at your already crumbling cause. I'm going to enjoy the day that tower finally collapses right on top of you and all the others who do the same and I'll have a front row seat to watch the humility of the fallout that will ensue.  The bigger they are, the harder they fall.
This was really funny, as someone who was involved in the U.S. small group left, I really appreciate this kind of self aware leftist humor.
this is my favourite video of yours. I love it! Tabby is awesome and having spent teenage years in an anarchist group I can say your criticisms are pretty accurate.
I just like the left so i can wear a black mask and beat up people
I loved the video, is an amazing discussion between very relevant point of views. I lived most of my life among anarchists and communists, some of my family were involved in creating the Brazilian communist party and were torture in the military dictatorship for it, and that’s why I tend to side with Tabby. I just want to be clear that is think the discussion about how communists present themselves to the world is absolutely relevant. I could never accept the ideas present by Justine about leftists been more likeable, because a great portion of them already are, they will never be likeable to the rich, or even those middle class that think they are rich, but they are very likeable to the poor, even though the character of Justine, represented by you, is already a much more effective and violent to the status quo than Tabby (being a trans leftist). Here in Brazil, much more than a problem of image, the left (and I restricting it to communists and anarchists) needs union, we have some leftists very capable in the “P.R.” part, and they should do that, and we also have a dire need for antifas and black blocks to fight the fascists, the thing that is missing is coordination and acceptance between the two. I live in a  country that is ridden with fascism, slouching towards a dictatorship again (thanks for couping us AGAIN), and I´m desperate to take this idea of union to the left (here it is now divided between Reformists, “Lulists”, left-centrists, Socialists, Communists and Anarchists, the bigger groups), I would love some to hear some ideas from you about reuniting the left as organized group (even though just reading this sentence is laughable).
agreed, fascism is cool, their argument suck but their image is so exciting, so wild, like a tiger, roooorrrr
Excellent video, great points brought up.  I'm still watching
Those hand movements ☝️👌☝️👌☝️👌
this film is fking awesome.  thanks for taking the trouble to make it.
AS AN ARTEST MY SELF. YOUR WORK IS IMPECCABLE. BUT DO YOU  REALLY HATE CONSERVATIVE'S THAT MUCH. IM A REPUBLICAN WHO LIKES TRUMP. IM A REPUBLICAN BECAUSE " I LIKE STUFF. " CAPITALISM BABY!😎👧
Communism = Judaism
So good. I am that cat.
I think the bigger problem is that collective ownership is just a crap idea.  People go in and out of the one percent all the time and a majority of the one percent are self made.  You have to provide goods and services people want to be successful.  Communism always creates a might makes right society. Their is no currency, only service matters. I cant see communism working outside the walking dead and para-military organizations.  A better welfare system would be nice, but the free market is the way to go
Yeah. This video demonstrates why I probably won't ever Patreon ContraPoints, even though she often makes good points - but she tends to drown those points in so-called production values. Which presumably a lot of her audience likes, but I don't. Obviously, that's a matter of taste. But it so happens that some of her critique of the left is that they don't try for the mass appeal. Which is probably correct. And which is also my critique of ContraPoints. Make of that what you want.  Oh, just to avoid confusion. While I like many points CP makes, by no means do I like all of them - I suspect CP is quite a bit more left than I am, and that is while I am quite a bit more left than average in the US (but then, I'm not in or from the US, and while I see myself on the left side of things, I don't see myself personifying the Left (whatever that means) - I usually vote Green instead).
For those of us who relate most to Tabby, I think the pill that Natalie is presenting can be hard to swallow. I just watched this video yet again and the line that stung most, was the idea that I don't actually want my ideas to win. Even as a trans person who is a leftist out of necessity and not aesthetic, I still think there is a part of me that fetishizes counter culture, especially considering I was a punk rocker before I was an anarchist. Really good shit. Messing up my head existentially because again, the idea of joining in on respectability politics just hurts so much but may be necessary. Rebranding. Like Justine said, it's only the centrists and fascists who really understand the importance of this, and that's why they're winning. Ugh... Hard stuff to think about but important as ever because it's not productive to remain stagnant and ignorant and not question your own beliefs constantly.
I love how the fascist is a mash-up of trump speeches. You go girl
The division in the far lefties is bane to their own movements.
In a choice between well-intentioned but annoying and openly harmful and cruel, I'll take annoying any day of the week.
Thank you for existing.
tabby is fucking incredible
You sure the first one wasn't a Bolshevik?
What the heck is Centrism?
Sesshomaru is ice cold... Also Spain 1936 was true Anarchist freedom.
Can I hire tabby for nazi related reasons?
Glory to Arstotzka ⭐🚩
I agree that the left has an optics and communication problem but I haven't seen any act of solidarity from white people closely resembling real action to the degree of "i'm going to risk violence and incarceration to beat this guy's ass so you don't have to and so that can't harm you". Maybe it doesn't appeal to white centrists but it warms my black ass heart. I get that the white middle class has more power and that at some point they are going to need to be appealed to in order to get shit done but my concern is how watered down messaging becomes in order to do so. I haven't seen it from you specifically even though I'm a new subscriber but the refrain I keep hearing is "go slow" as a response to how to appeal to whites. We are expected to appeal to their fragility. I guess this is a long winded way of saying i'm skeptical that its an effective approach to continually appeal to a class of people who are at best blissfully willfully ignorant of my oppression and at worst complicit.
Okay... in the past I've harped on Anti-fa Cat Girls--but that is only because it does not look good on paper. Seeing now in practice... all I can really say is...  Yes.  That being said, my stance has always been: when trying to change how things work--having people more than willing to smash stuff and break people's faces is always handing to have nearby. As sometimes... things do move to violence. This stupid "gandhi is not a ridiculous goal for people" notion ignores that most countries have armies... I've found people being all, "violence is bad" can be handled by asking, "would it be feasible to have a country without any army."
#icecoldmotherfuckers #bashthefasc
This video is is everything and you have no idea how perfectly you have presented my own thoughts since 2016 on this subject
Entertaining, yet informative.
You have the greatest mind ever. Your way of thinking is incredible.
All right. You win. You get a patreon subscription from me.
What’s the classical song at the end?
A slightly trivial comment. The cover at 5:47 looks amazing. I would love to have a copy of the Marx-Engels reader with a cover like that. Eye-catchy but also substantive to the content of the book.
Teach me O goddess how to destroy the capitalists by being a badass motherfucker
Finally someone who actually gets it!! This has been something I've tried arguing with people forEVER but no one listens.
I wish I didn't identify with Tabby so much. Maybe people would like me more.
How are you so epic?
This is my favorite video to ever exist on YouTube.
I'm not sure why but the leftie furry (Tabby) reminds me of BadMouseProductions. Probably because of him sort of talking through his teeth, just like the fake teeth forces you to.  Other than that, a really accurate and wise (i don't know of any alternative to this word that sounds less like Jordan Peterson & Co.) overview of some of the most important problems of the Left and a high level overview of their solutions.
I felt so disappointed when this ended, I wanted more and more and more. I like every video of yours I've seen but just these characters in a fictional storyline would be a whole show that I would happily watch eight seasons of after it inevitably jumps the shark in season four. Twelve seasons total please.
"I mean nothing is ever good enough for you people! I could be munching on a cigar in the South American jungle shooting at capitalists with a black beret and an eye patch and I still wouldn't be left-wing enough for you." Is one of the funniest lines I've ever heard, srsly.
Pretty much everyone on the left agrees that it needs rebranding, but what do you recommend as a replacement for, like, everything? Everything from the way leftists act to the words we use to describe ourselves and our ideas, and even other people's ideas, needs replacement, but what do you rename communism? What do you rename feminism? What do you rename anarchism? Even after that, how do you convince other left wingers to use those same words instead of their own, or the old ones?
the thing about centrists is they move with the overton window... so if it moves left, voila!
Okay. That's it. You're killing me. I'm laughing so hard I'm about to piss myself. Subscribed. You are like my own, customized Las Rojas.
"I'm wondering if there's some way you can nooooooooot do thaaaaat" 😂💜
Whilst I have a number of disagreements with you, I nonetheless find that you are consistently one of the most intelligent, insightful and overall interesting political Youtubers. Keep up the good work.
Holy shit this video is like the crystallization of my issue with the left.  I feel like I should post this to r/socialism.
While I see some of your points I have to say, as a European, that Antifa has never stopped anyone from coming to counter protests. Everytime I am at one it's 10 times larger than that of the extreme right and there is always a lot of Antifa but there are also unions and every party left of center and hippies and LGBT groups and a whole lot of just random people. Also our obscure philosophers are great.
In "Tiffany Tumbles", Natalie confirms that Tabby is trans, and given her anti-capitalist antifa alignment, it leads me to believe Tabby is in fact the character from "Punching Natsees" as well.
I think you would like Liam Lynch’s podcast. The early episodes.
My next punk rock band is going to be called "95% Trans Antifa Cat Girls", and all of the lyrics are going to be from the Marx-Engles Reader.
I highly recommend reading the 20 century histories of Lebanon and Israel on this matter (what to do next). Or maybe I'll try to summarize them, so you don't have to.
Neoliberalism is cancer.
I want all three of those Marx Engels readers.   I would pay an obscene amount for any or all three . . . as oddly ironic as it feels to say that. Particularly with a preface by Contrapoints.  Eh.
I am disgusted by the lack of research in this video : two kings can never be on adjacent spaces!!  I am jestering, it's a very interesting and well-done video! I just was taken by surprise at 2:31
This was hilarious and I agreed with a lot of what you said... but ima continue to be problematic.
Very good clip, stuff I think about all the time
I like the first two covers a lot actually...
does Tabby's A.C.A.B badge stand for Assigned Cat At Birth?
As always you misunderstand one thing: That you are weak and that you only exist because of the "facist capitalist state" that you abhore.  Cry yourself to sleep.
Can you, one time, make a video I don't relate to on just about every conceivable level? Are we the same person? WHAT ON EARTH IS HAPPENING?
"I'll see you at brunch..."
I wish more people saw things as you do
Does anybody else really want that Marx-Engels primer with the brand names on the cover?
I genuinely forget that you're just one person in these sketches
5:30 l a b o r w a v e
this video so fuckin well done lolol   i rly like that shit about coolness, it's exactly what floors me when i watch stokely carmichael videos and hear stories about alexander berkman and all the other well-known lefty bastards. they're quick, serious, full of humor, and in control in a way that i rly admire and try to emulate.
I wanna have a threesome with Rosa Luxembourg and that ANTIFA trans cat chick
I am so honored that you released this on my birthday! 😍
for real tho.Marxist-Leninist,please stop LARPing as the soviet, goddamn it.! That doesnt help at all
Antifa is cancer, Nazis are cancer, commies are cancer, anarchists are cancer, moderates are normal
That's a nice game of chmess you got going on there
Love your vids, amazing editing and wonderful content! Recently found your stuff and have been binging hard :)  I also laughed when i realized I have that same necklace Justine is wearing as soon as she said "I like THIS" lol
I LOVE YOU
Why won't she listen to you! You are exactly what centrists have been looking for! Run for president or congressperson or something oh my goodness!!
So here's the thing with ContraPoints:  https://theviolentink.blog/2018/06/09/trotsky-and-noel-coward-walked-into-a-bar-some-notes-on-natalie-parrott-contrapoints/
Ah the contemporary "left"  https://theviolentink.blog/2018/06/08/unsafe-at-any-speed-the-faux-left-and-demand-for-a-piece-of-the-action/
Drag me lol
Just putting it out there, but I'm deeply in love with Tabby...
Btw Fascism is Anti Everything.Its Anti Left,Right and Center.Its Just an Anarchist Influenced State Believing Extremist Idea.
The Left is Shit Though.
I died at ''hello fellow whites''
The argument that "Communism" has never been tried is treated with sympathy here lol. Wow.  Not saying you support it, but you sure are afraid to denounce it, despite history proving over and over that it has no practical application In human nature.
Is it wrong that i find you soo sexy sometimes or sexy all the time.
Listen to the musical “Ragtime”, if you haven’t already.  It gives an excellent example of the problems brought up in this.
I'm obsessed with your channel it's great.
Kek  Very nice 👌🏻
i want to agree with Justine, but I find myself more sympathetic to Tabby due to feeling the same exact seething rage and anger that the right so often attacks first (rather than the meaning behind the emotion) in the name of "respectability politics." I often wonder if the folks who are privileged enough to be able to control their emotions like Justine suggest are really the best representatives and spokespeople for the overworked, exploited, enraged class that make up the majority of marginalized leftists
I need some vaprowave marxism.
Dude, I love your stuff. Thank you.
This video is so great. Gonna get me a Marx bust and some sunglasses
This is great! Reminds me of "Hegemony How To"
I have that black and white wig. Hissing Leftist will make a great Halloween costume this year.
Good cop, meet bad cop. They seem to quarrel, their philosophies differ, but their interests are one.
omg "mimosas", loove jackie
This was very very well put together
You showed Chanty Bynx (aka Big Red) and even during my "anti-SJW" phase, I've defended her.  If people looked past her anger, she actually brought up some good points.  There are also other videos of her being calm and even having a bit of fun.  The situation that resulted in that yelling match was far from ideal, but I hate how people were so quick to dismiss her.    Also I love the set, especially the wallpaper!
I just discovered your channel and it is probably the single most profound takes I've ever seen in one place.
One year later and I'm on the edge of being tabby herself I feel so called out rewatching this I WILL NEVER GIVE UP MY GUILLOTINE MEMES
It seems like the point of this video is to hide what you really mean until you lull the centrists into a false sense of security, and then reveal your true intentions.
Good video.  You make some good points, specially with the Optics. Optics is half the battle and one of the reasons that the radical left in Norway (my country of origins) has gained more and more support over the last few years is because of the optics. Its the same platform but the presentation, deminer  and symbols has been changed. And it has worked.   And you bring up an important point. Should one fight violent groups (neo Nazi's, fascists ect) with violence. Personally I don't believe that you can change this peoples minds by violence and excluding them, that just gone Galveston them even more and give people like Richard Spencer ammo. Not the most popular opinion on the radical left, but when you live in a democracy you cant say that the rules of due processes, free speech or general social safety is only extended to the ones that has a certain sett of values. That's fascism.      Carry on the good work!
Hey that 7:30 mark.  Ya got me, fuck you
"Don't use words like dialectic" Now you've gone too far!
I don't like the new cover. Im more of a post-vaporwave Marxist....
If I had a preference for trans people I'd probably ask tabby to marry me. A anarcho syndicalist with some cool fangs.
God I love Tabby, is there a way I can get a shirt of her without incurring her wrath at my appreciating stuff?
YAAAASSS GIIIIIRL YAAAAAAAAS
Is it bad that I pretty much just watch these for the humor of it all? I don’t have the largest opinions about a lot of the topics you talk about, mainly because I don’t feel I deserve an opinion since I’m rather ill-informed and I’m too fucking lazy to do any research into this (I have my own b.s. psychology degree to earn, thanks), but your humor is unparalleled and so refined.
Damn every video just gets better
Maybe "cool" has something to do with it, but the reason I like you is that you actually engage with the ideas. And the reason I started to slip from the left is because I didn't see anyone actually engaging with the centrist right. It's refreshing to have you provide actual analysis.
My Queen is wide open.
This channel is extremely weird and I loved it.
I about cried laughing at this. I don’t think I’ve ever seen a political commentary that was having so much FUN. Yes! More! More of this!
My fiance broke up with me because i watched your videos without headphones and he felt like you were attacking white people
Listening to Tannhauser overture will never be the same
When Justine triumphantly plays Kxf5 it is stalemate. But then Tabby looks at the position just before that and says that it's stalemate, in a position where it isn't yet. That quibble from a chess nerd notwithstanding, I appreciate that the broad strokes of a real game were conveyed.   This is an awesome video. This is my introduction to this channel and I must say it was thoroughly enjoyable.
amazing
im new here and im mad bc im literally the leftist as portrayed, word for word, baseball bat and all lmfao i cant believe i ghost wrote that speech
Amazing impression of Richard Spencer.
blz show beniz
wouldn't making the optics of antifa better just make it easier to commodify? i mean, just take a look at feminism, it's So Cool that even taylor swift wants to claim it. embracing the violent image the right has assigned to us is foolish but so is rebranding to something too palatable.
haha never even noticed the finger symbols in the fascist speech until i had watched this like 5 times. Contra's like the Kubrick of youtube, brilliant
Boozy afternoon tea.
I adore you. I'm so glad I found your channel. You don't make me feel less crazy, but it's good to know that so much of what I think is shared by someone with style and flair. But seriously, thanks for being honest about the need for better branding on the "left".
I...haz feelz for Tabby... @_@
Thing is, the nazis actually want Antifa to show up and get violent. It allows them to play the victim and portray the Left as against free speech and while nazis aren't too popular in America, Americans do support everyone's right to free speech - even nazis. Antifa just ends up muddying the waters for the average American which is precisely what the nazis want. I can just see Ann Coulter jumping up and down with glee when Antifa shows up.   And really, Ben Shapiro? They go after Ben Shapiro?
Maybe it's just that I have a very weirdly unique personal experience but to me the most famous "SJW" is Anita Sarkeesian, who is unemotional to the point of seeming bored with her own talking points, but constantly uses false or misleading information to try to prove those points.  Or at least did before I gave up on watching her videos... even when her point could be made with more accurate info if she'd only bothered to do some basic research.
The idea of losing to you at chess makes me all...,,,
I cringed at the "not real communism" argument... That's one of the weakest arguments imho. Plus, by abandoning it, we can call out the right when they say "that's not capitalism, that's corporatism." There are about one of two roads to take in response to it. There's the Marxist Leninists who prefer to rehabilitate the image of 20th century socialism, which has its merit within an academic context. But as far as PR/propaganda is concerned, it's very weak as well. I prefer to go down the road of "The Bolsheviks were the first to successfully do communist revolution, so of course they made plenty of mistakes. We have the advantage of hindsight and we are able to learn from their mistakes." MLs who just want to rebuild what existed 50 or 100 years ago, for me, are really engaging in a conservative reading of history, wanting to bring back a by-gone era. We need to learn from the past and go forward.  On another note, as far as propaganda is concerned within the privileged, imperialist countries, even throughout the 20th century at the height of global communist revolution, it never happened in the centers of empire. As far as strategy is concerned, I think it may be better to focus on the polarization between the centers and peripheries of capitalism-imperialism, and this will redefine our goals into something much more sellable. By focusing on the imperialist nature of capitalism, our goals will inevitably change. And within the centers of empire, one of our goals can and must be anti-war. Anti-war is pretty easy to sell, I've found. This cause is more important in my opinion than the left fighting for universal healthcare or the nationalization of the banking industry, or whatever it is. Socialism is a scary term in US politics. But anti-war is not. Plus, organizing people around anti-war, a very sellable position, can help to increase the consciousness of the masses. We'll see. That's my strategy.  Also cringe at the anarcho-syndicalist calling someone else a bad leftist. Anarchists are great at punching Nazis, but their program is far too liberal and individualistic. Gotta focus on the masses!  And screw the "free marketplace of ideas." Just like all markets, the winners go to those who have wealth and power. We do seriously need to work on dismantling it if the Left wants to have any serious fighting chance. And it lets Nazis participate, because they have wealth and power.  Just my two cents
I'm drunk but this pisses me off!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
And btw btw I am still to meet the first 'leftist'who has actually read and  understood Hegel...or Marx... perhaps thats why communism hasnt worked so far...keep trying I'm sure we can afford another few million deaths...so long as you get your way ...right?
And btw SJWism is never going to be cool. It is just a hobby for Bourgeois white saviours who love Larping as the great downtrodden
but still FUCK YOU for misusing Wagner. As a fairy one owes it to Ludwig II to love Wagner...as he did
losing the argument  and then coming to the conclusion that the game is rigged, instead of coming up with better arguments,  is precisely the sort of thinking that makes the political right...RIGHT in a lot of cases. and that is SAD
and btw the game is not rigged
fuck you, fuck you, fuck you. how dare you use tanhauser for the purpose of mere politics ....however valid the point
Ooh a dialectic, how Hegelian :D
The beat at the end is from whom ??????
strawmen cant be strawmen if they are both played by the same trans woman in different costumes.
I'm gonna need better lighting. The pink neon glow is not very good
@ContraPoints vapor waving marx was genius.  You are the best
Amazing! I used the same clip of an audience clapping in one of my videos except my videos suck and your videos are totally cool and stuff.
I really want a trans activism debate where Freya just quotes Cate McGregor et al. (though Cate seems to have improved again lately... she fluctuates...)
This was absolutely brilliant.
I love it when enjoy yourself sounds xd get it? moonman hahahahah
I love these. The dialogue is just spot on, it almost seems like a real exchange.
M A R X W A V E
The dopeness of these videos is making it hard to focus on graduate school homework.
The problem I had with this video is that it never defines 'the left'.  Bernie Sanders' problems are different to antifa's--not just the same problems to a different degree.
I had that edition of the Marx-Engels Reader...
Fuck yes. Ice cold motherfuckers.
Wait what was that song playing during the Marx-Engels makeover?
I don't like a lot of the stuff I see on left YouTube, but this shit is exceedingly well made and is actually thought provoking. I subbed, great work.
Oh gosh if I wasn't Scottish I could express in all sorts of effusive language what it's like to have somebody so gorgeous with a view of the world (esp regarding academia - it was the same in the early 90s) so similar to  mine, but then me and David Hume are/were Scottish. And we all know that's wrong (cries bitter tears in private but retains an unemotional stoneface in public).
This is how every conversation between an anarchist and democratic socialist goes. Sigh.
Fuck yes!
The most funny thing in that video is your view, how a antifascist looks like. Really, some cosplay nerd running around with a hammer and cicle patch? Wtf, im into antifa since 15 years and NEVER HAVE SEEN SOMETHING LIKE THIS, only in some cringy US Youtube University flicks. Whats wrong with you over there?! I think alot, but this is not nly critic,but i also must admit,that at least you do your stuff in a creative way and with a mostly rational background and your willingness to debate.
Nice work with the critique. A lot of leftists revel a bit overmuch in their transgressive vainglory, to be sure. Now, one small thing: Miles Davis might've seemed on the surface to be all 'angry cool'; but he might not be the best role model. He tended to be somewhat less than 'cool' with the women in his life; by today's standards, he'd be considered a serious domestic abuser. That doesn't negate his musical genius; but it was an unfortunate part of his character that made me wary of wanting to emulate him in any way.
Nice use of Wagner.
The "ice cold" part had me thinking of Razorfist :D
I'll be honest....I'm kind of Tabby. I love tabby so much.
I need Tabby x Ice Cold mofo fanfic
Every leftist I've ever spoken to  Have been low IQ morons.
Brilliant! Thank you so much for illustrating a dialog that I've been having in my head for the last year or two, but couldn't quite express. Such a refreshing change from the typical circular firing squad that most of the youtube "progressive/left"  seems to have become. People on the left of center always seem to think that it is enough to be right about issues and having the truth on their side will convince the masses to join them. The right is light years ahead when it comes to strategy, optics and marketing their ideas. What might have worked in the 60's isn't necessarily going to work in 2018. It's sad that rightwingers are able to show creativity and vision for their twisted ideas, while so much of the left is just stagnating in knee-jerk sectarianism and nostalgia for the past.   We need more people from within to challenge the movement to learn, grow and evolve into something that can actually achieve tangible results, instead of just playing vanity politics to show how righteous we are, because in the end it's only the results that matter and the more disenfranchised one is in society, the more crucial this fact becomes. It's annoying to see those in positions of privilege demand everyone take a non-compromising anti-pragmatic approach knowing that they have the option of sitting on a beach in Ibiza drinking cocktails and tweeting about the revolution while others are suffering real-life consequences of conservative legislation and judicial appointments. When you might get deported any day or lose your health insurance, there is a HUGE difference between a "corporate democrat" and a republican. From a Marxist vs. Free Market Capitalist perspective they may just be two sides of the same coin, but people get stuck in one paradigm and lose perspective.   Stuff like that does turn people off to the left and I think it's important to point that out. The same principle applies for example to when a celebrity ally makes a slight error in judgment or perhaps is portrayed that way in the media, many on the left will tear into them without mercy and stage a public crucifiction to make an example out of them. That accomplishes nothing but turn people off as well. People need to learn to pick their battles and spend more time attacking the real enemies instead of using allies as their whipping boy/girl. Anger needs to be channeled at the right, not at each other.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6jDcWAWRRHo&feature=youtu.be&t=1m34s
This is so great! And funny.
I felt a bit attacked by tabby as a parody, and then she pulls out the Marx Engels reader and I was like "oh fuck I have the same book"
YES! THIS! I can clearly see is the problem and the way to improve. With humour (seriously, I had to hold myself back, the walls are thin in this apartment), you explain what politics really is; a game of propaganda and *cough* a market place of ideas *throws up a little*
I personally think the most important part of my own rhetoric is empathy and comfort. I'll never convince anyone to change their minds if I greet them with hostility. When trying to call someone over to your group you don't throw a rock like a child, you gently lead them by the hand and comfort them when they make mistakes.
Só esse vídeo tem legenda em português?
Do you even chess, sis?
OMG the the generic alt-right speech given in the opening is more articulated than almost all of speeches given by alt-right 'intellectuals' that I have ever seen.
finally some good fucking food
anger is cool... it's not hate when self appointed saviors of humankind on a quest for a genocidal ideology do it.
no matter how much you fix your optics you're still a proponent of a genocidal ideology, exactly like a nazi.
"real communism doesn't lead to genocide and starvation" Yeah lets try nazism another  150 times just to be sure we know if it's ALWAYS genocidal
optics for sympathisers of one more genocidal ideology. no better than neo nazis
As a member of the satanic temple, I take offence to this. :P
Nice reference to MR 😂
What to do about the extremist centrists?
The leftist looks like Melanie Martinez just saying
"It's not that SJWs don't have good reasons..." Yes. It's exactly that.
There is no such thing as a "Left" in the USA. It also died in France recently, with even the Communist Party becoming a liberal capitalist convention.
“Queer eye for the Marxist Leninist”
Yuck , what is this leftcomm capitalistict trotanrchism shit , not Marxism Leninist enough , Stalin disapprove , gualg to all you kulaks
Get out of my head.
This is hilarious
Straight up has a picture of Mao in the background, 10/10.
I liked it. quality content
I mean, i will admit that this was pretty fun to watch, and you clearly did neither single out any particular ideologies, nor did you paint you paint any of those ideologies as inherently worse than the other.  However, a lot of the debate feels more like a discussion between two literal straw(wo)men than an actual exchange of ideas.  I still love your videos though, keep it up!
So, umm, is that book cover with the Marx bust and palm trees actually available?
Omg the vaporwave.
Loved the Oi Polio reference.
"Most of my stuff was made by Chinese slaves" that's just you accurate.
Hello fellow whites. I died from laughter! I will start my every conversation this way!
how in the fucking fuck did it take me this long to find this channel?  love it.
Nice video. I'd like to make an observation. As someone who loves to debate EVERYONE, I've analysed myself and studied my behavior, and really, keeping cool is FUNDAMENTAL. Violence and uncontrolled emotions produce cognitive dissonance, you only make the other person close their mind or even worse, make them more sure of what they believe.  I know it's difficult and it will obviously take time, but I've seen the changes, I've seen how changing the tactics and practicing intellectual debate has made my ideas come across people I'd never believed would change their mind. I obviously get frustrated over fascists or extreme neoliberals, it's not like I don't feel the emotion, but I don't come across these stereotypes much. Also, most of the people on the extremes are ignorant with herd mentality, they want to belong to some group so their arguments are usually void or straw-man. You can't fight the right with ignorance or violence, so I'd said "maintaining the cool and reading a lot" would be a fair critique  (also, never believe you are fully right, always keep on questioning yourself and expanding your knwoledge) .
True. People do think the left is weird and are scared of it.
The vaporwave book cover lol
Anyone know what funk track that was during the Marx book cover bit?!?!?!
This video is all kinds of awesome. As a democratic socialist I freaking LOVE every second of it. SO full of win. I am kinda somewhere in between Justine and Tabby politically, and since I actually DO have a sense of humor, it is funny as hell seeing people like me get made fun of. I would share this with other leftists on Facebook in the various “leftbook” groups but they have strict rules about not posting anything offensive and requiring trigger warnings and being safe spaces so I just never post anything in those groups, only read what other people post. I dunno if this video would be safe to post there or if it might get me banned from those Facebook groups for being a counterrevolutionary or not giving people warning about offensive content or some shit like that. On Facebook you gotta walk on eggshells in some of the left-wing groups to avoid getting banned. These characters just remind me so much of real people I know online. Except for the fascist. All the fascists I know online sound like total dumbasses, while the one in this video is a genius.
I have genuinely no idea what your opinion on leftism is
The whole left spectrum shall see this. You practically formed a whole transformation plan. For me as a chess player this was hard to watch, though.
What is this shit?
Lol the rubin report making an appearance was gold. That said, rubin’s a paid right wing hack in disguise...
People be like 'The radical LGBTQ agenda is aligned with communism,' and the radical LGBTQXYZ community be like 'That's crazy conspiracy theory! Here's a copy of the Communist  Manifesto.'  LOL!!
This was a well done video .
Am I the only one finding myself agreeing with the parodic impersonification of a Fascist? Besides, Wagner is great music.
oh man, the pointing and "ok" fingers makes the beginning of the video a thousand times better once i realized what you were actually doing  i love this
Im more a max stirner fangirl. Im "that guy"
😆
Every time I listen to Tannhauser I think of Bugs Bunny. And I only watched the cartoon as an adult, but had listened to the overture of the opera as a very small child. I kind of hate the fact that Wagner's music is become so associated with fascism though. EDIT: BTW I will be looking forward to reading the "ContraPoints guide to Marx"
I love this. I love all of this! 😄
I have one thing to criticize. 30,000 people showing up to counterprotest as many neonazis (and these numbers are becoming more realistic) won't be enough, which is why I support antifa. I had friends in the Charlottesville incident who were there when that car plowed into the crowd. They told me that when the nazis were trying to get into that church to harm nonviolent clergy antifa stopped them by forming a line - not attacking. That tells me that if the fascists are willing to be violent beyond the violence of their rhetoric someone needs to meet them
Great content (and also artistically appealing and funny).  I agree that "the left" (that sinister bunch - I hate the word because it makes the right always sound, well, so right...) has to find a winning strategy. In my opinion, talking about theories and revolution is indeed counterproductive. One has to talk about wealth inequality. It is the main  problem (well, and climate change, but nobody cares...).  I am from Europe, so I am an outsider looking in on US politics, but since the US is dominating world politics, I think I can state my opinion. Videos like yours are very important, especially to gain support of younger people. But older generations have to be won over with different strategies.   Conservative and libertarian strategists and think tanks worked for decades to sell their ideology of the free market to the general public. I think it is no conspiracy theory to say that this is the goal of the main figures of the right wing movement. To achieve their goal,  they manipulate people, use fear (red scare, Islamophobia, Trans- and Homophobia, the overbearing state, "leftist" bias in media and academia, etc.), patriotism, pseudo science (also called economics), make alliances with religious nuts, bigots and misogynists, use buzz words like freedom, individualism, "tax is theft", form (pseudo) grassroots movements like the tea party.   Even the corporate media (not only fox news) contribute to this manipulation. I know that there are many very good journalists out there, doing a very important job (Jane Mayer comes to my mind). But I remember that there was no opposition in the German media when the social welfare state was cut and neo-liberal politics were imposed. There is no alternative was a universal slogan! (Where was the free speech there? If nobody prints or broadcasts your opinion, you may also stay quiet.) People were systematically scared with the "age pyramid", they were told that they would face old age without a pension, that the state would be bankrupt if they don`t accept the changes made (I know, Americans hardly know what a welfare state is, instead you have "the American dream" - sorry, I just puked). Well, the people get along with austerity while billionaires and corporations get richer and richer.    Now there is also the internet with all those nice guys, from Rubin and Sargon to Dennis Prager, Alex Jones, Richard Spencer (there is someone catering for every age group and alt-flavour), in Germany Pegida and AfD ( Hungary and Poland are on the verge of full blown fascism). All of them discredit the left and the state (except the military) and scapegoat migrants. But what is the answer from the left??   Concentrating on wealth inequality in clear and simple words and having well founded strategies to work against it is the only option I see. One has to communicate this using the Internet, real left media - heck, going door to door - the 99% have to finally understand that they are in the same boat. That will be a hard sell.   Sorry for the rant. Again, great video!
I can't be a communist. I do like stuff a lot.  Def would read marx and engels in a new cover tho <3
I love Jackie, she always makes me laugh.
<3 i love this
Once a marxist lunatic said to me that it's not his problem that the masses are not atracted by public support and appealing of Stalin. "It cant be helped, people are ignorant, they get easily alienated by this anti-soviet bourgeose propaganda" oh yeah, the problem never is the left, ITS always the natural forces of capitalism...
Leftist contracatlady : <3
So, brainwashing and dishonesty first... then the glorious revolution? How can it possibly fail? Sooner or later the cat comes out of the bag. Then what?
I'm no fash, but I would let Tabby bash me tbh
Love the music
Lol!
I love you, comrade <3
since when has the free market place of ideas ever stopped fascism ever the only thing that has ever stopped fascism is action...weather it be violent or not
all the left has to do to win people like me back to the anti white collectist marxist mindset and not fight to tear down functional democratic nation, simple enough. until that happens i will firmly plant myself in the middle telling you both to fuck off its no better the alt right there is limit to what facist and socialist will do to ackomplish their goal no moral barrier either one will hesitate to cross there is always an out group that doesn't matter and that is unacceptable to anybody that acaully cares about freedom
You are off the track......I don’t think you have enough of a point of reference to talk about this stuff.  You don’t have enough depth of knowledge....you have only your own impressions to draw from....and it’s shallow
Excellent video. Very good points and I agree  But I'm also a bitter hatefilled bundle of self-loathing. I keep to myself largely :P
The chess game you are playing is triggering me in so many ways.
Wow, this is very dense I was playing some violent video game with you on the right screen, my attention was divided, the video ended and I wasn't sure what the hell I just watched. Did I just get indoctrinated ?
If we're solely talking about political parties actually in office it seems like both sides are purposefully putting forward leaders who seem incompetent so they can defend the lack of Utopia with the fact that "Oh well yes but the ideology wasn't implemented by someone who actually understood it". Instead of maybe grasping that ideological purity is kind of.. impossible? in an actual democratic world where as many voices as possible are supposed to be heard. Most of the time if everyone in a substantial amount of people agrees on something it probably isn't a democracy.
Get this sick man away from me. He hates women and children. He uses racism to sanctify his deluded fetishes. STEALING FROM RESOURCES  ALLOCATED TO WOMEN AND CHILDREN.  WHITE MEN EXTORT ACCESS TO WOMEN'S RESTROOMS, SHELTERS AND WOMEN'S PRISON CELLS.    DISGUSTING, SEXUALLY PERVERT!!!!YOU ARE a man.  It is a biological FACT.   IT IS REALITY. YOU MUST STEAL EVERY PENNY FROM WOMEN AND CHILDREN FOR YOUR WHINY, WHITE DELUDED ASS.
I laughed so much! :3
I found an interesting article that talks about the unpopularity of leftist thought. It's written for ancoms, but it really applies to every ideologue.  "When you separate politics from the immediate, everyday experiences of  individual men and women, it becomes completely irrelevant. Indeed, it  becomes the private domain of wealthy, comfortable intellectuals, who  can trouble themselves with such dreary, theoretical things. When you  involve yourself in politics out of a sense of obligation, and make  political action into a dull responsibility rather than an exciting game  that is worthwhile for its own sake, you scare away people whose lives  are already far too dull for any more tedium."  https://theanarchistlibrary.org/library/nadia-c-from-crimethinc-your-politics-are-boring-as-fuck
Dat Rubin slam.  Love it.
I need a tutorial of how to make covers of communism books
Why bother making a video decrying the left, if those "skeptics" fucking NEVER decry the right. Why are you putting the burden upon yourself.
Now THIS is what I call good propaganda...erm, PR.
6th video in since finding your channel, and every video was funny for sure, but this was a RIOT. "YAAAAS YAAAAAAAAS"
I'm required to watch this at least once a month for my health
The Wagner touch really clinches the perfection of the opening speech
im unironically tabby
Nobody can outviolence nazis! Violence is their bread and Butter! Remember the spanish civil war? Didn‘t went that well, did it?
I was thinking "why does the fascist sound so viscerally good and transcendental?🤔"  And then I realized: Tannhäuser!
I like you :)
Damn you are both incredibly insightful AND fucking hilarious.
Viva trans Antifa cat girls!  And thank you for an excellent analysis of the need for revised strategies.
with the 1912 eastern cameroon reference, is this true and if so anyone know where to find info about it, the script of your videos are just engrossing
I'm sorry I get your point but we aren't at least I'm not some type of new leftist I'm a Marxist Leninist who is a new party member so the bit where you said Soviet Union starved people is a bit out of context as in it's not fully the truth the times were harsh and there was no food and the fucking nazis were waging a full on war against the first workers state what do you expect stalin to do pull a field out of his ass ok fine let's accept that he did pull a corn or potato field out of his ass who is gonna farm it? Most of the men and women are at the front the nazis are using scorched earth tactics and the liberal shit heads or otherwise known as democratic nations are making plans to attack the Soviet Union but I get your point you are no historian and you don't give a shit I understand that I truly do we commies sometimes act a little (a lot) elite still a great video although I don't agree with some of your points but still a great video but cut us some slack will ya?
Nice, they call their chess kings "queens".
"bash the fash"  Kekd
Does enjoying these videos make me gay
Yes because Muslim and African "refugees" aren't raping people like it's 1995...
Communism worked for two years in a small pocket of Africa, ergo: it is a viable long term, global option. Now, that's what I call a solid argument.
VAPORWAVE MARX/ENGELS READER
I'm a very complicated mix of Justine and Jackie right now (BRUNCH!), but still have a tiny bit of sympathy for Tabby. Also, this is quickly becoming one of my favorite channels.
2:18 lmfao
Would an anarcho-syndicalist really think Marx was foundational?
God I love being the anti sjw centrist villan , I hate racists,  I hate authoritarians , I hate humans because they're too stupid to over come instinctual tribalism , and I love watching humanity fucking writhe in it's own shit .reasons mean nothing contra , humans manufacture their own reality that's not even close to the truth... You misunderstand what we are ... we aren't a middle ground.. we aren't a "center" we're people who realize that check this IDEAS FROM THE MIND OF HUMANS ALWAYS BECOME CORRUPTED BY BIAS , .. fuck I'm gonna get off to how much I love it,  yeaaaaaa I'm the mother fucking centrist your non binary parent fucking warned you about .... fuck I'm soo narcicistic , I think I have a crush on contrapoints
Nice insert of SAINT PEPSI's Enjoy Yourself
lol the end though "my queen is wide open" too funny
i adore the interior design
"I'm gonna miss her" oh no you had to bring Tabby back, definitely not the original plan XD
God, I'm such a Jackie.   You're a genius satirist.
STOP MAKING ME QUESTION MY SEXUALITY
Did the Cameroon thing actually happen? I haven't been able to find anything about it online.
"this detached, ironic, pretend not to give a shit posturing that white men mistake for rationality is really just the self celebration of comfortable privileged people with nothing at stake"  If I were Justine, I would reply with "Nelson-fricking-Mandela"
Goddamn I love these videos.
This is the best channel on youtube
Lmao I have that same depressing, shoddy looking Marx-Engels Reader 😭 Really does need a makeover
How come you always use tannhauser und sangerkrieg auf wartburg when you’re doing fascist speeches?
mmmmmmmmm you gotta point
The 2nd cover for the Marxist book was actually pretty inspired. The Title is juxtaposed against what the book is against. It uses capitalist Iconography that invokes what many capitalist actually dislike about capitalism. That *is* good optics.
Has anyone else noticed that her wallpaper looks a lot like the wallpaper in The Haunted Mansion at Disneyland.
HAIL SATAN! jk but there is a problem to the communication between social science academics and "normal", non-academic non-scientifically-literate people. Meaning that the intentional language barrier between academia and the general public means that all the information disbunking racist and rightwing talkpoints doesn't transfer. It's hard for people to politically educate themselves If all the information-bearers talk down to the "little" people. And, oh yeah, aren't most of the self-defined leftists out to self-define and self-promote instead of making their ideas available.
The media and the corporations are against you?? Are you high?? Everyone in the media, academia, and corporations are all leftists.
Awesome!  PS... I had written a really long comment on the Decrypting the Alt-Right ... which is pretty much what you addressed here =D
Tabby is a good advocate for the Pinochet treatment of communists. If more of the vile murders had been cast from Helicopters, I’m certain that poor neko may be of pure heart still. Or a fascist. Such is life.
Oh god I need to translate this to portuguese. In Brasil we're currently going through a very rough political crisis ( in midest of upcoming ellections)  and the uprise of fascist ideas seems inevitable. Our left is very inflamatory and unorganized so would be very helpfull if they listen what you have to say.  Hopefully they won't see you as a yankee infected by imperialism (:
We gotta quit capitalism cold turkey. Disconnect our communities from the teat of Father America and provide for ourselves again, be it fully automated gay space communism or semi-automated gender fluid near orbit socialism. Cold Turkey Communalism!
defining yourself as a leftist, centrist or rightist is where I think it starts to become unravelled. Sure being categorised in the context of supporting a particular cause is fine, but when you start thinking you have a liberal outlook will make you more receptive to views that are considered left. Where my views are typically left to even far left, I have some individual views that are right wing as fuck and am unapologetic about it too. Also you're super-cute as Tabby.
I feel like I'm Justine now. Most of my things are made by Chinese slave. What's worse is that I'm Asian.
You seriously need to shave.  Hahaha
I love this and your portrayal of the constant conversations I have in my head! You're brilliant!
'My Queen is wide open" Hilarious!! LOL Take me LOL
I know Tabby is supposed to be a critique of leftists but I honestly agree with everything she said. Also I relate to literally every other trans antifa catgirl on Earth.
Contra? Do you know of a play called A Bright Room Called Day? I think you'd love it
Eric Clanton was just using "defensive violence" when he hit some unsuspecting kid in the head with a bike lock.
I 💗TABBY
You can be a communist AND an alcoholic.
Disgusting transgender
This was one of the first videos I watched before falling down the YouTube political rabbit hole, I'm slightly embarrassed to admit how much more I understood it the second time watching 😅
This made me laugh harder than anything political ive watched in a long time... subscribed af. Ironically i only checked out this channel because it was recommended during a Millennial Woes (alt-right) video.
Hey, hope you read this. Want to let you know that this video is fucking awesome. I'm a general leftist, by my own assessment, and I appreciate this critique of the current state of the leftist politics on the Internet. I totally agree that we need to consider our optics, as well as focus in more, perhaps in the middle of both extremes, as to what our goal is. We are, perhaps not counter-culture exactly, but our opponents are gaining increasing power and its contributing directly to hurt. To pain. Of course, these are not times of peace and rest in the U.S, or even internationally, and due to this, some of our own have lost sight of what we are. We are logical, and beautiful, and reacting so emotionally to these things, fucking shit up and screaming, isnt the way to go. I hope more realize this, though I'm not even perfect myself. It's easy to grow unrest in your mind in these dark times, but we must stay reasonable. You're fucking awesome, by the way. Keep doing what you're doing and dont be surprised if you see a contribution from ol' Luna in your Patreon sometime soon.
Not going to lie, this made me want to see Contra make out with herself.
5:13 hahahaha:')
The English translation of Castiglione's Book of the Courtier was a huge seller for Victorian era WASP's. The whole cultural value about that cool nonchalance as a courtly/public virtue has multigenerational momentum.
Simply impeccable!  You are the hero we need but don't deserve.
Tabby is such a funny character.. almost had me in tears LOL!
For the love of god. Release high def versions of Marxist book covers.
Oh Contrapoints, I wish you convinced her mind, if not the anti-fa kitty's  heart! Good job!
LMAO
I want a sitcom wherin all these characters are just living in the same house.
"ladies and gentlemen... a fascist" 💀
I love that you gave both sides flaws. I'm sick of the one sidedness.
Vaporwave Marx-Engels Reader is the true left aesthetic.
If Liberals changed their image/strategy like ContraPoints is trying to explain they would push back and soundly defeat skeptics & the alt right so easily. Liberals/SJWs have to give their brand a makeover like Nazis did with theirs.   I'm someone who HATES SJWs but ContraPoints is the first time I've heard someone from the AltLeft have humor/great talking points and even debunk the skeptic questions I have in my head as I'm watching.   Been binge watching all day. Discovered her channel early this morning.   Honestly ContraPoints needs to be the figurehead of the AltLeft rebranding like Richard Spencer is the figurehead of Nazi rebranding.  I mean the Karl Marx example you gave in regards to making the book look more exciting to attract people on the fence was intriguing because it would actually work.   I love hearing people that have different opinions than myself. Keep up the great work. You earned a subscribe.
I want to kiss you. Join me for a boozy afternoon tea. x
OMG and thats an impossible move for the king on 2:31 you are killing me here!, i fucking love your channel but girl cmon read a little bit about chess moves, you already have the damn board damn it
MY FUCKING GOD what do you do to the chess in min 2.29?, thats a no possible white king/black rook position, unless your intention was to "change" kings couse i can see they have like non matching colors on the crown, if i find a secret message i'll be happy im not thinking that you could make that kind of mistake i'll love it to be some kind of secret message or some twisted shit like that
I have only one question: 8:28
Damn, GULag again, xDDDDDD
Fun fact. Satanism is just religious libertarianism.
where'd you get your fangs?  They're adorable.
ITS OKAY TO BE WHITE. Ladies and gentlemen, prepare for a total shit storm.
When you put on the shiny sunglasses, to me, you look like Uma Thurman.
What is wrong with someone who is white ( or black) and loves his nation, his people, and doesn't feel comfortable living with other cultures other than his own...  but doesn't hate other races or cultures if they are in his country as tourists, or he is in theirs...
5:36 song plz
Spec-fuckin-tacular The insights in this video are great!
The thing that annoys me the most about video is the terrible chess play. I'm fine with being bookish and completely unconvincing, but there were NO QUEENS on that board!
fascists VS fascists  while Stuck In The Middle With You is playing
I have the same chess set and my fixation on it completely ruined the continuity of the video.
+ContraPoints - I identify as liberal and I feel that I'm probably one of those people you're going to have to "trick" into becoming part of the 30K in your crowd. And as you alluded to the easiest way to get people like me on board is by renouncing violence. I'll deal with the "liberals get the bullet too" subset of your audience when we come to that...  但，若你多說中文的話，我多願意支持你的立場
So lemme try and break this down, reworking marx and communism for a modern approach and appeal is acceptable and even a good thing but the reworking of nazi ideology by alt righters is bad? it sounds like either:  A: you want to strawman you opponents while becoming the more acceptable outlook for the oppressed,  or B: dont want to have two sides test their marketing skills or reworking their ideas for the modern world.  I get you want your "side" to win, you believe one side is better than the other, but this is evoking an arms race between the two factions. This invites them to rework their approach just as much, as you two are diametrically opposed.
I love this  also I'm a leftist and I can't stand the guillotine memes as someone who has a special interest in the french revolution all I can say is  "Do you want a Napoleon? Because that's how you get a Napoleon." like we do need better optics and stuff and I'd probably get laughed out of most circles because I'm still a member of my mom's friend group (don't ask it's a long story)
Is Tabby a ripoff of my catgirl waifu Cat Alunya?
6:36 to 7:46 - Utterly PURE genius.
Ackshually, you shouldn't feel bad for owning stuff made by chinese slaves - it makes them better off!
Well done.
I would go full gay for Tabby.
I thought this video was going to be about throwing Sandinistas out of helicopters. Lulul get it?
"What we need is social justice, drugs, and rock and roll"   Hell yeah
No matter how I look at it, the fascist rhetoric comes too naturally to you.  It's okay. Your instincts aren't wrong, no matter how hard society tried to beat them out of you.
I wonder, would ever consider making a video where you would state your points as to why communism wouldn't work in today's world and society or what could possibly make it work? It would be interesting and, of course, aesthetically pleasing to hear your opinion on this.
I'd elect that leftist catgirl. Death to capital!
Finally someone fucking gets it! We're not having a debate, we never were, this is a propaganda war and you don't win that by being right! Thank you!
I just want to say thanks. Your videos are insightful, and have given form to a lot of what has been on my mind in regards to the left. Your work is entertaining, educational, inspiring and concise. Excellent.
actually liberals really do get the bullet too
Tabby <3
Red and Gold are also the colors of McDonalds.
anarcho-syndicalist?  this part didn't make sense. anarcho-syndicalism is similar to democratic co-ops, which hardcore purity-testing communists love to hate on and decry as "not real communism". In my experience, Tabby would be a tankie, leftcom, marxist-leninist, etc. tabby's militant communist friends would've purged her for her counter-revolutionary attachment to the commodity value-form or whatever.  edit: "what are those colors, red and gold?  like a chinese communist flag?  it makes me think of bread lines and gulags.  it's unamerican.  I don't like the cut of it's jib"  lol this rules.  I can't stand people who push shitty out-dated imagery because they want to piss off their dad
I mean, Stimulator is fucking cool.
I've been personally attacked,
Hmm so you guys think the Overton has shifted right? We really are living on different planets. I wonder if we can ever find common ground. You guys probably think I am a facist because I get keks from pepe memes lol.
A not very constructive commentary, but...: best channel on Youube. Greetings from Brazil! I know that, watching the videos, we are acquainted only with a persona of yours, but, nevertheless, you are one of the coolest people out there. Now I will try to ignore that there are still a lot of your videos that I have not seen yet and focus on studying for a Chemistry test that I will be doing tomorrow; a tough thing to do indeed.
As a now* middle age contractor with a kid, you nailed it and I appreciate your analysis. Since collage my views have evolved. I have participated in black bloc's since the early 2000's and I have brought up many of these points about shifting strategy towards appealing more to average WORKING CLASS people. Anarchism has a fucking branding problem. It is also full of people more worried about being in a clique than reaching out to working folks. As an anarchist, this upsets me from a strategic standpoint. The hard left needs to quit worrying about being hard and start worrying about strategy's that accomplish their goals. Thanks for this vid.
I'm so glad you wore that necklace I bought from your wishlist in one of your videos!
Just a little concern I had. ContraPoints, do you think imperialism isn't a real thing or is that part of the satire? Because it is a real thing and my country, Brazil, (and other countries on Latin America) has suffered a lot because of it. Our underdeveloped economy historically dependent on the U.S., the continuous interference of the U.S. and central European countries in our politics, even giving financial and military support to brutal dictatorships, such as our 21-year-long military dictatorship and the Pinochet's regime on Chile, for example. Not to mention U.S. intervention on democratically elected governments (such as the Allende government and, to give a more recent example, the Venezuelan government) and attacks on the sovereignty of socialist countries like Cuba. And all in name of the economic hegemony of capitalist nations over peripheral countries (the so-called "third world", the "underdeveloped countries"). If that's not imperialism, I don't know what it is.
LOL the book cover segment xD
YAAAS GIRL YAAAAAAAAASSSS
MLCA MAKE LEFT COOL A G A I N
As a 'liberal' (yeah yeah hiss at me all you want) and what the political compass tests label as 'Left wing, Libertarian', I will explain why the 'social justice' brand of leftism is not just losing the war for the support of the masses, but being absolutely destroyed. It is because you do not pick your targets properly. You attack 'white straight men' as a collective catagory, without any regard for individuals within that demographic. In fact that is a big issue for you guys...collectivism. I know SJW types (I feel dirty using that term) in my personal life, and I have been called a "privileged, white man" on more than one occasion, despite the fact that, as a gay man who was raised by my grandparents (my parents both died) in one of the most impoverished areas of the UK, in a house that didn't have an indoor bathroom, and I have a physical disability that means I cannot work and rely on benefit money to simply survive, I am not privileged in any way that means much in reality. I knew a lot of 'straight white men' who I grew up with as peers who are not alive any longer because they committed suicide or took drug overdoses after finding that society didn't want them and that they didn't have a future due to unemployment. Drugs were the only real escape for many of them from the sheer shittyness of their realities. If they were 'privileged', they sure as hell didn't get anything from it.  You are losing the battle for people because they constantly see people on your 'side' going on about things that mean nothing to anyone outside your bizarre little cliques, like "Man spreading" and "72 genders" and "Sexist air conditioning" and "Being looked at without consent is rape". They see you guys labeling normal moderates as 'nazis'. etc. Most people have genuine problems in their lives, like feeding themselves and their families. They don't think misgendering someone who looks like a guy by calling them 'he' is really all that important or a massive societal issue.  For me, being left wing means believing in fairness for everyone in society. It means recognising genuine inequalities and working to reduce or possibly remove those inequalities. It doesn't mean ignoring reality and facts to push identity based, collectivist ideas onto people who just want to live a better life. People are not slaves to the many labels that they wear. Their sexuality, gender, sex, race etc are not identifiers of their personality or ethical makeup, nor their standing in society.   I think the saddest part of it all is that Marx would hate you guys. You read his works but misunderstand the core concept that it is class that matters when you talk about power and privilege, not any accident of birth like the colour of your skin or what you have between your legs.
Is this primarily out of an america-centric perception? I presume as much but wondering because it might help me get past the whole playing characters bit. A lot of it hits European equivalents as well, but certain portions stick out as odd to me, especially the denomination "a leftist" and equivocating them all to being boring academics and well, being anti-religion. Including the perception of communism being very different depending on which country you go to. (I'm ignoring all the aesthetic talk because I'm broken on that level, I have no understanding of aesthetics) Also, a million thanks to the black bloc, while I agree with some of the criticism of their usage of violence when it's indiscriminate, they've saved the lives of some of my comrades on the streets. Literally.   (Communists in my country for example, are not anti-religion, at least the largest communist party. I'd also go deeper into it, but if it's america-centric, I'll be out of my depth but, fuck centrists. <3)  P.s That ice cold joke... I cringed so fucking hard.
this is downright fucking *socratic*
Okay, I can't be the only one who wouldn't mind Tabby nibbling on their neck with her fangs before she softly hisses into my ear? I can't handle all of these pretty Contras anymore!
I like how the Anarcho-Syndicalist is literally an angry cat.
+ContraPoints , while I really like this video I was trying to grab a fact from it regarding your point that there was successful Communism; 1910 - 1912 Revolutionary Eastern Cameroon. I was not successful in finding any resources on Google to back this up. I was hoping to use this fact in a discussion I was in the middle of. Would you mind listing some resources to this?  Unlike other SJW Youtubers, you are very precise with your facts and details. I'm guessing you have better links to this information. History of Communism is not exactly this skeptic's wheel house if your know what I mean. Thanks!
Man, you're fucking brilliant. I haven't been this stimulated  (titillated(?)) by anyone in a long time. Your channel is my favorite thing on the internet right now. Keep up the amazing work. You're a role model in my eyes.
I kinda think the focus on identity politics and the "opression race" is what's wrong with the left. They focus too much on dumb stuff like who shits where. The focus should be economic.
You clearly have some hidden white pride feelings. You should explore them more openly, it would be a healing experience for you.
I don't disagree with most of this but you guys act like Nazis are taking over. Its a little dramatic, most "Nazis" are just people who hate the establishment.
Contrapoints singlehandedly brought me back from a personal political crisis this week about exactly this sort f shit (me being Justine)
Make the Left great again?
Hahaha.... sublimely superb!
+ContraPoints , this video was brilliant. I come from the conservative end of the spectrum. After watching some of your content, you seriously pose the best points in support of progressive thought. I also noticed that your videos are hardly ever targeted by the likes of Ranting Monkey or Bearing. This video here really shows why that is. You make good content and smart, well thought out, arguments.
This video is a beautiful tribute to all of those Ed Wood films.
RIP Bruce and Trixie
hmmm well, I want to see more of your stuff.
Hell, i think the video puts forth a good point - Straight brute force won't win any favor, but going purely for hearts and minds won't either. Nuance, cleverness and a bit of plain luck in what's used where are key.
Was the Cameroon (Kamerun? ... French Congo?) thing made up for this bit? I can't find anything mentioning it.
SO good.
You should unblock me on twitter, Contra. I promise I'm friendly.
The left hates itself most, true.
…I'm keeping my fursona, damnit!😂 I needed this roast and I'm not alone it looks like. Your videos are great, I can focus on what's being said. I don't know if it's how awesome you are or if I've opened my mind more from the doubt and reflection? I clicked so fast in the middle of my How It's Made bingeing, but I jumped when the lefty came out from the curtain. :"U(Amygdala tamed.) Centrists are just living and I need to chill more when approached. I'm in good company now with fellow leftists who have it together, few learning and farther ahead. I need to suck it up and ask for help. I've forgotten how I got to the left and I think if I met myself a few years ago I'd be quite upset about where I'm at, politics and praxis wise. Cause it's going nowhere good.😖 I'd like to help my fellow SJWs who don't have it together, once I do. Maybe not approach them, but share my progress and of course these videos!💜😊
Hey Contra...it would have been more accurate for you to wear a red balakava, black hoodie, and come out waving a ANTIFA flag in order to be more up-to-date with the new 2017 fascist look...just sayin....
Please make sequels.
I always hate how the right hijack the best composers
So talented. Just love this so much!!!!💚
Why are you playing chess without dice and the loud call "Cheeeeesssssssssssssss!" if you roll snakeyes and fold the board?  But nice video.
The whole "communism is always bloody and leads to famine" thing? Yeah, San Marino and the Indian state of Kerala would like to have a word with anyone who says that. These regions both elected communist governments and did pretty damn well for themselves. San Marino's commies (actually a coalition of the Sanmarinese Communist and Socialist Parties) held office from 1945 to 1957 and were voted out peacefully in the end. As for Kerala, they turned out better off than much of the rest of India.  I wouldn't mind if we Americans gave communism the old college try for one year if it meant kicking the rich in the ass and stopping 45. Take one year to go commie and redistribute all the wealth. After that year is up, we then adopt a blend of European social democracy and Chinese socialism--the best of both and none of the flaws of either. From there, we'd only go communist once every fifty years to keep the playing field level. If you decide you don't like it, you'd only have to go through it once, maybe twice tops. Maybe three times if you're born in a commie year AND make it to your 100th birthday. And keep in mind that this is coming from a guy whose politics are a mix of left-libertarianism, anarcho-socialism, technocracy, and a dash of Maoism.
I don't agree with much of your stuff but you are truly talented. That was well done. Very entertaining and thought provoking. Thanks for making the effort.
I work at a really progressive media outlet and we don't ever talk about Marx or Hegel, so I am feeling like the leftist is kinda a strawman, (though I recognize some of the antifa arguments),  having said that, the points you make are pretty interesting.  Keep on keeping on!
Why do the left defend communism so much? Why is it always "I'm 100% right on everything" with you people? Btw I'm not a Nazi before you liberals start calling me that
Lindsay Ellis sent me to your channel.  You are amazing.
Absolutely genius video. I applaud you
This is the best thing I've ever seen.
I thought I was straight until I discovered this channel the content is amazing and so well acted out
Ok were did you get 5:38 song?  I want to know!!!!!  you make good vids.  I love your face x2 and 3,  but 4?????
Love how all the characters are so chill and engaging, great job
rip bruce and trixie
"well, it's more of a bourgeois afternoon tea.." *"afternoon tea?!?!"* hahahahaaaha
Very, very, very, very well done. Certain tools of psychology could be used to help many learn to be ice cold, primarily cognitive behavioral therapy and dialectical behavioral therapy.
"The Rose stays" wtf is this renegade kautskyite bullshit.
The Left needs to rebrand. Facts don't win arguments, emotions do, and how the issue affects the person you're trying to convince. It's up to us to swallow our pride for the greater good - we gotta make this freedom shit palatable to normies. It might feel degrading to sanitize yourself and dumb everything down, but is it worth the alternative?
patton oslwalt say cool is the enemy of comedy, maybe even the enemy of life....
"Liberals get the bullet too"  Does that include minority liberals? Sounds wacist.
This was hilarious and nice lamp, too haha.
Death to capitalist Hail Satan lmao
Give anarchy a chance though
the hands. the fucking hands are so perfect
i love you and your videos so........much................
This one is my fave, watched it several times. Any chance you could throw raddle.me a plug?
I WILL NOT GET RID OF MY HAMMER AND SICKLE!
Poly tics . Yes lets fix the broken  thing by useing it to repair  lol .
Yeah that was not sided at all. So even this guy thinks there is nothing wrong happening in the refugee front, they just let them come and destroy everything we love and it is fine. We can't say anything about it, if these people had the technology they would stop you for even thinking about saying anything. Also you do know you would be stoned to death in a muslim country. Even in Germany there have been stoning of trans people but that's fine so long as those poor "refugee children" get a place to live and free money for doing nothing at all. There is no good explanation to be ignorant at the times of internet, you can google the stoning's in Germany or mass rapes in England sad so sad.
You walk out to your driveway one morning, to see a hunched figure beside your car.  You hear a loud scraping sound, so you run up to the person. "HEY! WHAT THE HELL ARE YOU DOING?" The person slowly rises to their feet and stares at you. Fury radiates from their face. You find yourself face to face with a leftist.  "Every day, at least one black person is killed by the police. The amount of police officers who've faced consequences for the murder of black-"  You look over to your car. The letters "BLM" have been scraped into the paint.  You turn to the leftist.   "WHAT THE FUCK? WHAT HAVE YOU DONE TO MY CAR?"   The leftist's face contorts into a snarl. Their eyes well up with tears.   "Fuck your car", sobs the leftist. "Fuck your privileged life. Black people are D Y I N G."  You stand there in disbelief as you attempt to process the situation.  You look once more at the letters now etched into your passenger side door. You look again at the figure standing before you. Their fists are clenched, eyes full of defiance. You are furious. "Listen to me, fuckface. I don't know who you are or what your fucking problem is. But you better believe you're paying for a new paint job to get this shit covered up."  "Typical" , the leftist hisses. The word is said with such venom that you begin to wonder if this is one of those reptilians your crazy uncle Alex was always yammering on about.   "White people care more about scratched paint than they do about people of color." The leftist is crying again.  You've had enough. You tell the leftist that you're calling the cops. The leftist immediately takes off down the street.   "FUCKING RACIST!" They yell, as they disappear from view.
Tankies ruin everything but centrists aren't helpful either.
Briiiiiiliant
facts over feelings bud not the other way around
What is the video or link to the 1910 to 1912 awesome communism? Really having hard time finding something positive from that time. If you find something, cool thanks mates, pass it on to me or to somewhere I could see it. If not I really like the parody. In the end the humor comes from the suffering.
Where did you get the black and white wig? It's beautiful! <3
antifa isn't our PR problem. our PR problem is corporate media itself. even if antifa were about giving out puppies and hugs to nazis, as long as it was anti-capitalist and anti-platformist, it would be opposed by the media. try again.
"Lots of brands" Okay now that's even more offensive than "liberals get the bullet too."
"Liberals get the bullet too."  FFS I have no problem with communism but you can't free a socety by killing 97% of its population.
"Right to exist under attack." Oh dear... I'm getting confused between fascists and right wingers in Israel.
Hey Contra, a young (13yo) friend of mine has started down a dark path, i.e. Milo Y, and I really don't want him to get too fashy. What do you recommend that I do?
Leftists have optics cucks too haha
"Drinking Victory Jin from a rusty herring tin"Is brilliant.
I don't know if I can give up the gulag memes though...
This is so well done I forgot I wasn't watching a conversation between two different people. I mean the flow alone, it's really impressive.
I think the Achilles heel of the Left may be it's own integrity. The Right is willing to compromise on its values (temporarily) to gain favor. They are willing to lie, mislead, and keep secrets. The Left however is constantly and relentlessly cleaning house. The Left always puts all its cards on the table. Truth be told I don't think it's a bad thing. Our rhetoric is honest, but not always persuasive. I don't think the solution is to lie or even leave out, our honesty is a great strength. We just need practice our asses off in regards to peursuasion and public speaking. If we can get people with charisma and counterargument skills Leftism can stand a chance.
This is the first time I watched one of her videos and I am pretty incredulous right now.
LIBERALS COULD BE LISTENING
0:04 DID YOU JUST ASSUME THEIR GENDERS????????????????????
2:44 This is what the left actually believes
Anti-Kommunistische Aktion
I ship it
"you go to brunch"  Brunchers get the bullet too
>Not talking about revolutionary catalonia  TRIGGERED
"Liberals get the bullet too"  Guillotines and bullets? Plz no, that just confuses it.
"Do you have any friends who aren't millitant leftists?"  I'll have you know my friendship group encompasses all types of shades of political opinion equally:  0 leftists 0 fascists 0 liberals 0 conservatives 0 libertarians  EQUALITY!
>Marxist Communism  >Not Baukninian Anarchism  Tabby is not my conrad
"Trotskitist tendencies"  I didn't know Contra was a newspaper deliverer
Is Tabby a new Political Ideology Cat Girl?
To share on facebook or not to share on facebook. That is the question
Hey I'm not sure where to say this but I think at one point far in the past I came to your channel and left some mean comment because I was not alt-right but far too invested in the for lack of a better term "skeptic community". regardless I'm sorry I've come to really enjoy your content and I just wanted to say that.
circus came to town?
Can we have this tabby character come back again
This would make a great cartoon on adult swim.
"You go to bruch with these people?!"   oh i just got that lmao
You're a talented and handsome man.
Stalinist USSR was a socialist society and then Krushchev implemented revisionist policies.
Wow... these videos are really well made.
Defensive violence and doxing ...hahahahahah...
You have such a big budget for such a small crowd ...fastest way to throw money down the toilet ...
Is there really a segment of the left like the one you're describing? That's not a rhetorical question, I don't quite get your description. Further, if you're going to criticize certain parts of the left for bad strategy I would suggest that your own strategy is a little flawed. Mainly, because you're criticizing the left, too publicly, in front of a youtube audience who want to cling on to anything negative about the left they can find.
I would do things for a quality link to that Vaporwave Marx Engels Reader cover. Shameful things.
What a script.
"Trans antifa cat girls" is a fun line.
So accurate omg.
These videos are absolutely beautiful...
very gay... good show.
real talk, though: why does Tabby, the leftist, criticize Justine as a "Trotskyist" when Tabby doesn't even recognize the Soviet Union as a legitimate form of existing socialism, and on top of that, is an anarcho-syndicalist herself 🙃🙃🙃🙃? huh, tabby 🙃🙃🙃🙃?
People only ever want to deal in ideology any more. It's never about the sociology, or the economics, or the philosophical principles. It's get in line, follow the pack, and don't think about it.
Hello! I really enjoy your videos. Do you have any other social media I can follow you on?
I 100% disagree with most of the politics discussed here, but this is hilarious. You're the best Leftist!
sublation? Did you mean Hegelian sublation?  "The biggest problem is SJW's not cool".....omg, sweety, what you.....wait, oh shit,   is it patronizing to say sweety since you're a girl?   Is that a problematic?   Should I spend hours parsing through what amounts to the rationally unjustified moral feelings of the progressive stack informed by deep seated Nietzschian Christian ethic of the supremacy of the poor in order to discover a loosely held set of interpretations from a coalition of contradictory lenses ....   what would I do without such CONSISTENCY and CLARITY OF VISION and EMPATHY FOR EVERYONE and RATIONAL ARGUMENT WHICH TAKES ON THE BURDEN OF PERSUASION and RECOGNIZES HAVING DIFFERENT RULES FOR MARGINALIZED PEOPLE IS SOFT BIGOTRY EVEN IF YOU THINK ITS JUSTIFIED and MAKES MORAL ARGUMENTS INSTEAD OF ASSUMING DISAGREEMENT EQUALS BIGOTRY
Very good video, and it helped me understand more about how confused the far-left actually is.  For instance, do you realize that "Centrists", and your average low and middle class Capitalist, think a lot of the same things about Leftist, Socialists and Communists, as you do about us (this is very paradoxical).  Also, I can't see how you can truly believe that long-term Marxism (in a free society) can actually work (ever), on a scale as big as the US (especially without the assimilation of diversity), let alone, the entire world, especially using your "personal property" clause... materialism is a definite no-no, in most Marxist camps.  The US may have a lot of problems and flaws, but people here are 100% better off than most of the world (including other western cultures), so we are doing something right.  Wouldn't the ideal solution be to "upgrade" our current system... fine tune it?  Take all the energy and resources use against it, and peacefully, make it better!  There is no true consensus of how Marxism would even work.  People have been trying to understand how it would work for about 170 years, and still can't figure it out.  The "True Marxism has never been tried" argument is flawed, because there are thousands of ideas of "True Marxism"... I even have a few of my own, and I know it's BS, but still a fun intellectual exercise.  And that's what it IS, an Intellectual Exercise... and should stay that way.  Because for ANY of it to work, eventually, individuality, personal freedoms, artistic talents and creative expressions, would have to be put on the back burner, behind the collective and total equality of outcome... to curb the chances of jealousy and envy (can't have those pesky feelings in an equal society).  All this would incubate and give birth to a thriving underground and black market, of creative people who can't live in such a stifling world, with just as many vices and power struggles, but no control over them.  And, this could only end with 2 outcomes: 1) sever punishment of these ingrates... further stifling person expressions and freedoms.  2) Counter Revolution... which is the eventual outcome.  Why?  Because people need to be free to have their own ideas (and stuff), and ain't NO commie gonna make them feel guilty about going to "brunch with THESE people"!!
Tabby's reaction to Laborwave Marxism killed me.
contrapoints has by far the best comment section in all of YouTubedom.
#molesttheleft
What is the leftist equivalent of Ben Shapiro? I guess when Neo-Nazis start organising en mass to disrupt their speeches we'll know. (actual genuine question though-sincerely, an Australian friend).
2:30 King attack queen?dude you can't play chess
I just analysed the chess board and moves at the beginning and I think it gave me 4 aneurysms
2:30 that's an illegal move
This channel is basically the Murdoch Murdoch of the left, and I actually enjoy it!
I just have to say that you are the absolute best.
5:50 Lmao I'm dying! This is too good! I love your characters Contra! <3
*FOUNDATIONS OF GEOPOLITICS.* THE BOOK IS THE RUSSIAN BLUEPRINT:   Military operations play relatively little role. The textbook believes in a sophisticated program of subversion, destabilization, and disinformation spearheaded by the Russian special services. The operations should be assisted by a tough, hard-headed utilization of Russia's gas, oil, and natural resources to bully and pressure other countries.  https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Foundations_of_Geopolitics  https://www.reddit.com/r/NeutralPolitics/comments/5mtgkr/aleksandr_dugins_1997_book_the_foundations_of/  https://i.imgur.com/OaHgGcA.png  The book declares that "the battle for the world rule of ethnic Russians" has not ended and Russia remains "the staging area of a new anti-bourgeois, anti-American revolution." The Eurasian Empire will be constructed "on the fundamental principle of the common enemy: the rejection of Atlanticism, strategic control of the USA, and the refusal to allow liberal values to dominate us." Military operations play relatively little role. The textbook believes in a sophisticated program of subversion, destabilization, and disinformation spearheaded by the Russian special services. The operations should be assisted by a tough, hard-headed utilization of Russia's gas, oil, and natural resources to bully and pressure other countries. The book states that "the maximum task of the future is the 'Finlandization' of all of Europe".  "Russia should use its special forces within the borders of the United States to fuel instability and separatism, for instance, provoke "Afro-American racists". Russia should "introduce geopolitical disorder into internal American activity, encouraging all kinds of separatism and ethnic, social and racial conflicts, actively supporting all dissident movements  extremist, racist, and sectarian groups, thus destabilizing internal political processes in the U.S. It would also make sense simultaneously to support isolationist tendencies in American politics."  Valery Gerasimov & The Gerasimov Doctrine https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Valery_Gerasimov
I like Justine's eyeroll at the "free marketplace of ideas". :P
This is definitely my favorite video!
dont call me out like this contra p. oints
Great video!
Finally, I've been wanting you to criticize Antifa for awhile now.
It shouldn't matter that sometimes a few Leftists are easy targets. You could make endless "cringe" compilations for both sides; fascists have their awkward members, and we have ours. The problem is that since this is very much a country sympathetic to fascism, those of us who are against it get held to a much, *much* higher standard of conduct. Fascists succeed by misbehaving, while leftists who do even a pale imitation of the same are held up as reasons why the essjaydubbayoos need to go.  So while anger is natural, and deserved, and while that anger should be on display when out in force for demonstrations, its inelegance is being used against us and we need additional strategy for the time being. I /have/ found that a "cool" tone works better when talking one on one.  A few articulate people staying calm and keeping an arsenal of statistics at the ready bolsters our image as a whole, and gives other left-wingers confidence. Basically, the Left needs to organize how we engage--not everyone can act detached, but designated mouthpieces can do it for them and serve the collective good in the process. It's not our anger, but rather our vulnerability, that will be discarded if we present an unflappable united front. On the other hand, I believe this emphasis on detachment earns us short-term brownie points while robbing us of the fire needed to truly right wrongs, because humans can never freaking reach a happy medium. Has politeness increased wages for Wal-Mart employees? Will it bring factory jobs back from Bangladesh where 12-year-olds now make our shirts? Shouldn't it give us pause that a respectful demeanor earns praise from the very people who benefit from the labor and deprivation of marginalized groups? Disobedience harms the disobedient, but serves the ones who come after.  Therefore, my take is that our mouthpieces should be politicians, which is why we need to reach firm consensus on candidates and get our asses to the polls, as Republicans have done with great success for decades. The onus of change can't be entirely placed on citizens; it's an elected representative's job, after all, to advocate in a level-headed manner. It's they who listen, they who amplify, and they who change laws. The main reason Democrats are so fractured is because we have no real faith in most of our guys, so we aren't a reliable source of support, therefore they turn corporate out of self-preservation, then we trust them even less, and on and on in a vicious circle. (Sorry this is a mile long, but it's 5 a.m. and I'm unfiltered.)
I have the urgent need to cum all over ContraPoints sweet, gay, twink, transwoman face. He just looks way too hot and cute, as a cat woman especially. Anyways, even me, as a right-wing liberal, find quite an enjoyment out of many points Contra has to offer. Sure, we do disagree a lot on certain views, but I like how he is capable to differentiate on multiple topics, not trying to only speak out for one particular corner, actually trying to get a bigger picture of the whole. I have way too many important things other than politics to cover, but nevertheless, it's entertaining and often refreshing to get some opinions and viewpoints from ContraPoints. I couldn't care less on which political spectrum he is settled.      Greetings from the neo marxist republic of Germany, lol! ;)
6:39 - 7:02 one of my favourite parts in this video. I'd consider myself quite left but it's all this jargon, theory and philosophy that becomes so distancing and inaccessible. Love all of your videos.
Yeah right Antifa is gonna save my gay, Hispanic life. At least, not in the long-run, when they find out I don't believe pedophilia should be accepted or that children should be promoted to and allowed to transition.  The difference between Antifa and the Alt-Right is who's going to end the ways of life for people such as myself first.
Good video. This is very well thought out and showcases the insights of a true critical thinking a from leftist perspective in a very articulate manner.  Speaking of perspectives, in case you might be interested in one from someone like me who leans right (mostly over economic policies but to some degree on immigration as well.) I'd like to share that the hard cold truth in my opinion is that in the end you need to appeal to people's sense of self-interest and pragmatism to win them over while accepting the fact to a lot of people "empathy" isn't one of their top priorities when it comes to making policies that govern societies.
Very good writing.  The Hitchcock music tho lol
this might be one of my favorite videos on the internet, bless this shit
"liberals get the bullet too" me💀
I aspire to be the person who just grabs a candelabra from out of the frame like it's nbd
This is basically me talking to my radical leftist friend. You're without a doubt, my favourite leftist voice.
I LIKE STUFF OK
so good
I absolutely love your videos I've binge watches most of the vids and my views have definitely changed on skeptic channels and the alt right stuff
I would come a lot more to paying attention to a message like this that seeing a bunch of thugs rioting. I probably dissagree with 99.9 percent of your philosophy, BUT you do great presentation and I do watch so thats a start.
I really enjoy your videos. I'm still probably going to vote for lower taxes, though
I hate stuff
This should be mandatory "reading" for leftist militants everywhere. "Compromising" the way you present yourself by trying to appeal to wider audiences is a must if you... well, if you actually want to be heard. Priorities, man. I became very disappointed with my peers, twenty-year-old's regurgitating ghosts of times past. It's tiring having the same argument with people who will brush your opinion off, even if you're on the same side.
sooo cute :)
What if instead of the Rock and Roll, Social Justice Bards instead like idk absurdist playwrites or Ionesco or the guy who wrote the Marat/Sade musical Peter Weiss - full title: The Persecution and Assassination of Jean-Paul Marat as Performed by the Inmates of the Asylum of Charenton Under the Direction of the Marquis de Sade
what's your workout routine/diet besides hedonism and booze
'What you are is less important than what you seem to be.' 💟
But,... the cat suit, is soooo cool.
Lost me at cool
I'm gonna be honest. This was great.
As an anarchist on Twitter, this video is spot fucking on about a lot of the issues I've noticed in online leftist culture. If I had to sum it up, I'd say that the far right is extremely violent but puts a lot of effort into appearing calm, rational and enlightened to outside observers - in contrast, the far left in practice is much less violent but often indulges fantasies of violence and rage for catharsis, losing sight of the purpose of communication on public media.   btw, a perfect example of an ice cold modern leftist imo is Chelsea Manning - compassionate towards her comrades, passive-aggressive towards her haters, doesn't give a fuck
00:00 - 01:30  I don't see anything wrong with this.
Um, no I think Centrists don't like SJWs because they are Centrists. Centrists acknowledge that there are problems with the system but also acknowledge that change must be tortoise-based because change is extremelly dangerous. Japan is the perfect example. Japan is the future of the current system. We've all seen people who are addicted to their mobile phones for example, but we are yet to see a situation like Japan where a kid will starve to death in an internet cafe he's spent three days in wearing an adult diaper. We're yet to see young men who openly admit to preferring to collect cards than have sex. We've still got more young people in prison than old people - though possibly due to mass-immigration more than reality, because we've obscured our 'Age Bomb'. See Japan is perfect as a control experiment because they have not embraced mass-immigration. We can literally see the effects of Leftwing social changes on a country without the Globalist fig-leaf. We can see these changes, due to their near totality and rapidity have literally put Japan on the endangered species list. The Japanese are like human pandas now - they are refusing to bed one another.  If dying out is the end result of social changes, then those social changes are bad. We are in this for survival of the species, justice is a secondary issue in comparison. Japan also has micro-apartments... which I personally find as distrubing as battery farms. Human beings, all living beings, need space and privacy. So at the same time as dying-out they are overpopulated in the cities. There are entire villages that are now occupied by one or two people - in one village the sole remaining occupant built scarecrows in order to have a sense of 'life' going on around them. Like something out of 'I am Legend'.  It is a society that is totally fucked-up... and not in a fun way. Meanwhile the oppressive Theocracies and chauvanistic states of the Developing World are having population booms and faminines and stuff. So this is the likely course for Japan in the near future if they want to survive. Just as quickly as the feminist revolution and tech revolutions put them on the death spiral, the counteraction will put them on the life-spiral again. Conformity being a much more present phenomenon in the East. Centrists are fun. : )
someone please tell me what this person's name is. please
I love you.
The simple fact is that the left has no clever ideas to sell to me. If we disregard murica for a short while in germany we have the green party which are (apart from their ecologic attitudes) are essentially conservatives and voted to join the US in Afghanistan (as a pacifist party, wow), then we have the social democrats who essentially fucked their electorate over in hopes of emulating the blairites or the former SED which are essentially retarded people and DDR romantics bare of any vision for the future. The left wing we could see smashing up Hamburg for a better communist future have done all they could to ensure that i will not support them ever, no matter the cause. As a kid i wanted to vote for the SPD of Helmut Schmidt and Willy Brandt but this party does not exist anymore.
……… yes? and ok?   but  liberals get the bullet too, sorry; it's just a matter of math and history namean
I find it both deeply ironic and hilarious that even in the comments there's a Tankie defending Stalin and North Korea. Seriously, guys.
Exit stage
How do I recommend this channel to someone? It's the best thing I've ever seen but I can't describe be it
ur lighting is rly good
Probably not enough information to do a video on it yet, but I'm really not sure how to feel about the blm protest against the ACLU. The ACLU has a pretty long history of fighting for important civil rights, and in fact has guides for blm protestors to know their rights on their website. They're a supporter of BLM.  So, why did this happen? Does the ACLU need to be taken out for still representing legal cases for white supremacists? In my time as a volunteer there, I saw how many prisoners and impoverished people they advocated for, and the entire thing leaves a bad taste in my mouth.
This is my favourite video you've made. Keep up the good work. Sincerely, a conservative.
But liberals DO get the bullet too....
Also, how many peaceful progressive protests and marches have the 'black block' disrupted over the years, against the express wishes of the organizers and most of participants? Saying that you're there to protect people, then instigating violence that those people don't want - there's gotta be a fair bit of self-justification going on here. You're giving police the excuse to contain and restrict peaceful protesters for the sake of maintaining order. When you start shit, everyone is put at risk - not just those throwing things.
The acting is well done.
Antifa violence doesn't seem to be deterring fascists from spreading their views, holding marches, committing acts of terrorism. Unless you think you could permanently physically disable/kill enough fascists to make a difference to their numbers, how is it an effective strategy? You're just giving them a victim card to entice more sympathizers.
I like the video and its really good since i can share it with anyone and get them to open their mind a little, but you need to make something more akin to the ''Decrypting the Alt-Right'' video, since i do feel that we all need a sincere and serious look into these questions and a proper video that details and goes in depth into this topic and explains everything impressively well even for people who are learning impaired, Because like it or not, there are a LOT of people who are learning impaired whether they know it or not and by explaining things like this to them, you can help them to overcome their learning problems.   I used to have a lot of problems not understanding things that should've been common sense to most people but i always later managed to improve on understanding what i was trying to comprehend. So it would be very appreciated if you could make more of this but in the style of your previous video.
While I somewhat agree with Justine, Tabby is cuter.
actually, i don't have an issue with anarcho-syndicalism, though i prefer capitalism. i believe after we end the need for government someday, we will have a mesh of communes, workers unions, and typical capitalistic companies that may or may not interact with each other's communities and economies depending on how the free market shapes around this kind of society. by the way, contra, do you have something against Dave Rubin?
YESSS! Let the ice cold begin!!... i´m sorry that wasn´t so cool. But I really love and think about that point of action. I loved this video.  xoxo from Arg
Has there ever been real Communism?   Check out the Benedictine order. (Hey, I didn't say it wasn't rigidly hierarchical :P )  There are other Christian communist communities as well, but I don't think they're going to attract a lot of media attention. They're mostly pretty frumpy.
Marx wrapped in an American flag? I think you might be on to something there!
Does this guy talk to the people he calls, "Facist"?
You cant deny that Contra is pretty.
Nah social justice warriors are intellectually stunted...well maybe just naive. Loved the video though, very well done!
Learn from Howard Dean, don't let your emotions go wild in public.
This is the best thing I've seen in weeks! Michael Brooks show brought me to you. This is great!!! Subbed!!!
To me, the most offputting thing about Tabby isn't her support of violent responses, it's her expecting people to know and use all of those obscure language terms - that's where the speech lost the audience.  Get rid of that artificial language barrier and ice coldness is achieved, no need to girl-font the cover.  I've not read any of those philosophy books, and I can't figure out what those words mean without sitting down to calculate it, and I've no particular connections with those symbols or what they're associated with but I agree with oppression smashing and I think most people in their hearts do too.
I haven't slept all night but this put me laugh my ass off ahhh. Contra is always so fabulous.
Fucking tranny freak
you're brilliant
Interesting, and worth consideration as far as actually shifting the world back to sanity.  Much as I like communism in theory, the ideal society it theorizes tends to be a post-scarcity one, and I've come to realize that there are some things that can only be scarce by their very nature. Not everyone can have a giant dream home, especially with population figures what they are, and not everyone can get a front row seat to Hamilton, or even just a ticket to it.  As an alternative to Antifa, I might also suggest Redneck Revolt, who seem to be taking a less outwardly violent role, and seem to work more on support, like having their own medic teams at events or having people keep an eye on armed fascists at events. Though I do disagree with their pro-gun stance.
Social justice, drugs, and rock n' roll  God yes.
Contra, I want to have a steamy date with you. Im serious..just picture it: You and me, naked and sweaty, staring deeply into each others eyes.... .....In a Sauna feeding each other gourmet-dried dates.  Sounds perfect to me!
I don't see what's wrong with Tabby's speech, it had me frickin jazzed.
Hello Contra im a big scary communist with hammers and sickles and jokes about Gulags...   I love your channel... but i think that in trying to push the "never succesful communism" meme you looked over alot of important points....  A). You make to much of a stink about encouraging people to Read Old School Philosophers Like Marx, Camus, Che, and Lenin... in truth this intimidates newbies.... but there is a wealth of annotated and simplified pieces of literature on the subject. Just look up "Communism for Dummies"  B). Never giving up the hammer and Sickle! Never ( though many other thought leaders encourage using the raised fist as it is easily associated with Progresive social movements )  C). Look up Kerala
Socratic Dialogues for the Youtube era. Bless.
Why did I read The Road to Wigan Pier when I could have simply watched this video?
"I'm saying if 30,000 people show up to counter protest them. You wont have to!" I lost my shit. " I think we should just be friends while I figure this out". I coughed up my bachelor chow.
I hope someday to be an ICMF, subbed by the way, I like these videos.
Tabby! 😂😂😂💕
Someday im going to force myself to trudge through Hegel XD
I don't agree with a lot of what you say but I really enjoy your videos.  I believe if more people were like you this world would be a lot better, and much more confusing....  ;-)
whatever your politics, this is a work of art.
As someone who is generally on the moderate/centre right, I would consider an equivalent video where instead of the AntiFa fang girl you'd have some radical nationalist/alt-righter/white identitarian being told to tone shit down a bit (or a lot if needed) pretty useful too. (you can take that as a compliment)  This was a particularly interesting and well thought-out video.  The right are hardly going to get anywhere either with - for example - the shallow, unsubstantial and general claims of white people being victims of society. And similarly the swastikas are hardly doing any favours too! (I'm being a little comically sarcastic there, of course)  But I doubt your fans (which, with all due respect, seem to vastly be queer communists) would be sympathetic to my specific concern there. And that's fine.  The question is, would the commie AntiFa "bash the fash!" types be more wiling to realistically change and reform than the nationalist Alt-right types? Time will tell.  P.S.  Your production values are amazingly fabulous and you're clearly a very good musician too (as I've seen from previous videos) xx
Love this, especially the suggestion that some people on the left might not want to actually win. "Winning" = Twitter snark wars and punching the wimpiest Nazi that ever lived. Instead of, you know, actually winning people over and getting people elected.
"Sometimes I think you secretly don't want your ideas to succeed, you actually enjoy being a pariah whose political beliefs never gain any traction, because if you have purely theoretical political beliefs, you're never accountable for the way things are going"  AAAHHH SOOOO GOOOOOD
Am I the only one triggerd by the first move, where Justine puts her own king in check?
"centrists don't like SJW's because they're not cool"? Really that's your brilliant deduction? It couldn't possibly be because of the numerous arguments leveled against them by centrists.. no no it's because centrists think they aren't cool. How juvenile and disingenuous
Video is inaccurate because a leftest wouldn't be there to give their opinion lol
The problems with the left aren't this cosmetic. They go much deeper, to the fundamental assumptions you make, and apologia like this will not fix that.
Holy shit...this is my first time seeing a video from you and my god it's pure beauty
Every video you do is my favorite... until I find your next video. Keep 'em coming.
(3:25) Every social democrat's reason for not becoming a communist or socialist.
As a Philosophy student, I LOVE YOU. i wish you were my neighbor.
I might be going to the wrong forums, but I have actually never heard leftist use Hegel in any capacity to defend any of their arguments. It's much more Foucault and Butler and the Frankfurts. Also, Hegel is the coolest how DARE you use him in a derogatory way you MONSTER. You should fall in love with every little overcomplicated sentence until you drown in the confusion of your own inability to understand your understanding.
queen
Can you please publish all three of those covers? 😂
Funny the Social Justice crowd thinks "liberals protect fascists," and fascists think "Liberals protect (Stalinist or similar) Communists"  It's probably not helpful to bring up general relativity considering how unhelpful the Victorian Era philosophers are, but I keep being reminded of this physics exercise where objects A and B are moving away from object C in opposite directions at .95c relative to object C, and since no object can move at c relative to any other object (this is a result of spacetime shifting the goalposts, mass increases at 1/(1-v^2/c^2)^0.5, time and length shrink by (1-v^2/c^2)^0.5).  Result being A thinks B and C are more or less in formation, and B thinks A and C are more or less in formation, and C of course sees A and B as equidistant along their trajectories.  I think the "personal property" vs "private property" thing needs a bit more clarification, you seem to have "productive property" vs "unproductive property" and Badmouse Productions seemed to have "property you're using" vs "property your'e not using," if this stuff's supposed to be a new legal code, presumably you would like politicians to run on this stuff and win on it so that shit can get done, well, how can constituents be confident this will be miles better and not miles worse?
THANK YOU! OMG nobody points out the current leftist strategy of "sounding smart" by using words nobody understands. I think the best way to end fascism is to do it in the common vernacular. Do you know about the Plain Language movement?
God damn. You straddled the line and actually made it make sense. I'm just gonna say it: you are the most incisive political voice of my generation.
The really important question is: why did black sacrifice the pawn on the second row, without gaining much out of it, wasn't that her winning condition?^^ Did Justine not want to win the game?  Edit: Sry, I should have thought a bit more before writing, the position seems to be drawn either way.
'tis peak /leftypol/
Why does Jackie keep getting more and more disheveled?
Is there a reason your Antifa didn't bring up the fact that channers are using incitement tactics to try to force violent engagement (going so far as to brag about it on an easily available Vice documentary short) and trying to gin up opposition for their "violence" despite the fact that it is used almost universally in defense of other, real people? The best example of the last part is the clergy in Charlottesville. We have ample evidence of incitement trying to be used, false-flag operations being planned (no matter how transparent or inane), and violent intentions being made clear on the right (extremist and non-extremist). We have very little evidence of antifa-initiated violence outside of police reports that are contradicted by eyewitnesses and video.  I think that's an important part of the context right now - there really is a violent shadow war waiting in the wings between the militia subculture and the antifa subculture, both going back decades. One is defending people who are trying to work through legal systems while the other wants to burn down the government and make room for Jesus to come back.
I'm glad you finally made this video. It's a message that needs to be heard and you're probably one of the few people capable of packaging it in a way that will actually be heard by the people that need to hear it. Thank you.
Never has there been a more perfect channel.
"You can own things, just not expensive things" - Communist tranny
i really love this video because i genuinely agree with both of these characters' points. great work contra!
I think you really capture the current political landscape, and the current crossroads the left is at, better than any other political commentator. And also better dressed than any other political commentator <3 Keep it rill rill, green pill.
Hail Satan
In all honesty those book covers did look pretty good.
My last session with my therapist kinda went like this.
Real talk, how hard was it to talk with the fake teeth as Tabby?
Yasss. We need to give liberalism a makeover like the alt-right did to nazism. We need to learn from our mistakes make things right, if not we can sat bye to freedom and hello to the 4th reich.
@2:22 you have a flawless David Tennant impression going on and I couldn't stop seeing that character as a furry DrWho for the rest of the video.
Contra, once again you amaze me!
this some gay shit
Iv'e found a clearing in the jungle and can see the sky
"Sometimes I think you secretly don't want your ideas to succeed. You actually enjoy being a political pariah whose ideas never gain any traction because if you have purely theoretical political beliefs, you're never accountable for the way things are going."  HOLY FUCK. Time for some self-reflection. Thank you, Nat.
you guys are the byproduct of when the Disney channel started doing sjw themed tv shows and movies in the early 90s
contra would you sit down and try to reason with the rightest fascist
Contrapoints, you seriously need to watch Cracked's last Some News Episode: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SVOuY7hoqEs
You are absolutely at your best when you criticize your own side.
THis is why neoliberalism is the only good take on ideology.
What is the point of getting people on your side if "your side" is rendered unrecognizable courtesy of your appeasement?   Seems more like you are getting on their side. Although you, specifically, already seem to be there.   I'm not among some dozen-strong fringe; I know there are millions who have very similar views to mine. We have no need to compromise them to make progress, or that progress will not even be worthwhile.
Do you open doors with that nose.
i love these videos
Accurate
"Actually, according to Hegel..." hahaha... NO ONE WILL LISTEN TO YOU if you keep quoting shit.   I have a few friends from school who need to see this
I fucking love this. And you, to be honest. *hug*
Is this your name Contra? Zoë Blade? I love it x
good lord I love your videos.
Great video Contra even if it had me a feeling little I don't know.As a black man with far left views i find myself alienated from hell everyone in my age group,and no am not antifa but i understand were their coming  from. In fact most people in the US don't know what anarcho communism even is as we are constantly being told by the right that anything and everything on the left is evil.it's like the left is in a damned if you do damned if you don't position. Anyway sorry for the long comment stay safe comrade. #unitetheleft  P.S.Please look up W.E.B. Dubois he was a great man who I think all  leftists can learn from.
Lmao. God, I love these videos. I love the discussions.
*THE LEFT SHALL BE VICTORIOUS THROUGH THE USE OF LARGER LETTERS*
This video is excellent, so smart and insightful. Then ruined by explaining it! A true artist never explains his or her or whatever's work. For one thing it disperses a necessary tension. Also the explanation insults the -- in this case -- viewer. And more! Bad instincts, ContraPoints. But it was a great video till you fucked it up.
so in short, Antifa suffers the Thanos Paradox
I recently got a link to your channel and I'm not going away from it ^^  It was an antifa or anachist blog/page something, which adds some fun to the situation for me.  It's the second time I watch one of your videos, and I'm already in love with your work. I'm not a native English speaker but it's crystal clear and subtitles can help for the European-authors-babbling ;)  Thanks for all this work, for being good at analysing political problems and for being good at exposing your views on them/your analysis. If I believed in sending positive energy, I would send some to you !
Hey Contra saw u on Sargoy's ch the other day. Anyway u heard about the mind stuff? Recommend looking into the origins of sociology and Scientology.
As a centrist, I thank you for showing the worst of leftists, and I find it frankly disgusting. :)
The Soviet aesthetic might actually be the best thing about communism. I say keep the aesthetics but reform the ideological aspects.
Man, I've been watching you for a long time. I was really happy to see you come back. I think you've said quite a lot that has been meaningful criticism of the alt-right. While I agree with you that the alt-right (and the mainstream right as well) is highly subversive . . . but so is the left and communism.  Since you've been coming back, I've been in agreement with you, but felt uneasy about you not addressing the left. If you are going to say that any argument from the "right" is really just about hiding "hatred" by promoting subversive fascisim, then why can't the right just say that  the "left" is just about hiding their "hatred" by promoting a subversive communist agenda.  Its really nice to see you address this issue, even if I don't think you came down hard enough on the left. I don't agree with everything you've said, but I'm glad to see that you're still a really respectable guy . . . even if you've become significantly more . . . weird. . . than 10 years ago (although, the weirdness really makes for a terribly pleasing aesthetic in your videos).  Oh, and btw. you're by far the coolest sjw. Its not even a contest.
Fascist here (apparently). Love your videos. The real reason you browse /pol/ is because you're a white boy and you like the same humor as we do. you like Christopher Hitchens like we do. and if you weren't a tranny, with the same humor and insights, most of the groups you identify with would toss you on your ass! LOL
This is the first video iv watched of yours. I feel a binge session on the horizon. Seriously though, this is really good work. You can tell how much thought and consideration has gone into making these videos. Very cool.
.....i kind of hate that so much content around at the moment tells us what to think about an issue,,,, and that this video really doesn't ,, i was waiting for the other obvious-caricature-villain shoe to drop (for both characters) and it didnt,,,.,,..... i love it ahh
Rename your video to The American Left.  Because that's the only thing you talk about, ignoring 95% of the planet
Tabby is awesome, you're just another liberal hack who only cares about justice when it personally affects her.  You're not an ally, you're just another narcissistic comfortable privileged liberal who wants to perpetuate the status quo with a few tweaks instead of striving for real justice, social AND economic for all the people of the world.  Fuck off.
Tabby marry me.
Great video. Also, does anyone have a link to info about 1910–1912  revolutionary East Cameroon, or was that a joke? I can find nothing online about it and am wondering if this was just a joke about how leftists always point out that anarchist communist societies existed in Spain or the Paris Commune, both of which were extremely quickly crushed.
Go tell this to the people of Rotherham or Cologne, Contrapoints.
Fantastic!!
Thank you for this hilarious and important video! Battle on Social Justice Warrior Princesses out there. Be open to new ideas ❤️
Tbh I didn't learn anything from this video.  It should be obvious that advocating for the reintroduction of failed systems isn't going to make people be open for leftism. But what is leftism even supposed to mean in the sense ContraPoints uses it? Social democracy? That system that is getting abolished in western countries since the 60s? Universal basic income? That's stuff that didn't work in the first place or doesn't solve any of the contradictions of capitalism. Even if leftists would get into power and then just go for that and stop it after that they too will fail and it will be another episode of "socialism failed". I am from Germany and here we have a politician called Sahra Wagenknecht who is a genuine communist but explains in simple non-theoretic terms why the current system can't work forever, that we should get rid of it, how we can get rid of it and she is kind of popular in general. However even if she doesn't mention terms like socialism or communism other politicians and the media always try to paint her as evil Stalinist and people are easily influenced by that.  This just means that you just can't present yourself in a cool way and explain your thoughts in an easily understandable way. This isn't enough. You must hurt people's minds by showing them that their beliefs like that in national superiority or the free market actually do not work that way and are counterproductive to their own interests. As example liberals agree with the idea that humans should be free and respected and have rights. So you need to point out how leftists feel the same but then argue that because how our current system works most people get these rights denied, some more and some less and that if you really believe in things like in freedom for the individual you must set them free from the boundaries that come with how capitalism works.  Then offer a few changes you would introduce that seem radical but are actually applicable. Like Obama did with Obama-Care. The point is just to say that we shouldn't stop there because that's the flaw that always came with social democrats i.e. They thought that that would be enough and sooner or later were forced to repeal it. However without theories on how to get there and what to do there you will never be able to do anything that can work out in practice.   Fuck Antifa though. They hurt the left more than any unironic Stalinist does.
30,000 people point is SUCH a good one.  Can't help thinking most of antifa are there to, well, show off, and seek conflict.  Attract mainstream rejection of nasty ideas and you've won. We've won.
You worldview is, as before, located into this barmy bloc approach of "leftists", "centrists", and "fascists". Despite you having, clearly, a decent knowledge of ideology, you can't see the world in terms of normal people and what ideas and preferences people pursue in real life.
awsome love it go girl
I think you're partly right but where I think you're wrong is that the "ice cold mofos" will be enough. To give context, I come from Wichita Kansas were lots of jobs have left to overseas factories and call centers (believe it or not Wichita was a major call center hub before offshoring took off). And I can tell you people are still very angry about this after decades of all this happening. The irony is that Kansas use to be a hotbed for socialism and it was brought about by the fire and brimstone kind of rhetoric that you'd expect from the "heart land." So my point is that not only do you need "ice cold mofos" you need the loudest and strongest voice of preachers to get at more people, especially the working class folks that went GOP over the decades. If you speak to their plight and show them who's taking money out of their pockets (notice how Politco's article on Tom Price's little private jet travel got him in trouble enough to make Trump say something about it?) then they'll have no problems siding with what looks like a leftist because if you speak to their plight and make them feel that they can move mountains then they'll damn well try. Remember, FDR and the New Deal was a response to the fact that unions used similar rhetoric and mobilized a significant part of the working class in his time. I think we can do that again. It's a question of if, not when someone will do it.
This video is really insightful and well made! Having said that SJW's are not unlikable because they are emotional. I know some ICE COLD MF sjws
This perfectly discribes my inner political crisis right now. Thank you I really needed this!  you're great!!
first 40 seconds and it already feels like a parody of a computing forever. nice.
antifa cucks dont even like themselves
WHY THE HELL IS JACKIE SO HOT
Very funny video.
Can you imagine what will happen when ANTIFA will get power? Even now are violent like true marxist, when they will be in charge you all will get taste of communisem.  Communism starts in violence and end with horror, if it's ends. Usualy they just kill all decent persons, only slaves remains. Just look every comunist country.  Im am mayself from former Jugoslavia.
You make facism look to cute with yo sexy ass
I'm getting a heavy No More Heroes (Suda51) vibe from Tabby.  Previous videos have given me Killer7 vibes.  I'm starting to see a connection here...maybe a Contra cameo in Travis Strikes Again?  A person can dream.
The Brotherhood of Steel is basically the alt-right. Substitute "immigrants" with synths and "hail victory" with ad victoriam.
what's a black bloc???
YAS GIRL YASSSSSSSS
These videos deserve some sort of Youtube Academy Award for everything....lighting, set design, staging, timing, decor.  They always look stunning.  And the content is thought provoking.
Jesus, you're a god damn genius.
SJWs don't have good reasons for what they do.
#BringBackTabby2017
The interesting thing is that it was the left were the ones who originally supported the Nazis I suggest you look at original dictionaries printed before 1960 and news article as in 2009 the left got the definition of fascist changed into being right wing though it is actually related to the mechanics of socialism and communism.  The fact you seem to have no apparent situation we have in Europe outside a left wing echo chamber as your impression that Muslim migrants committing gang rapes. I am from Britain and do enjoy your videos and i think  you are willing to research information I suggest you looking into the Muslim grooming gang situation in the UK as a starting point start with the Rotherham Grooming scandal then move up from there.  I would also point out that in England in Wales we have had 136000 cases of female genital mutilation with little girls as young as 6 years old with zero arrest even though in the UK there is a 14 year minimum sentence.
This kitties got claws!
need me that labourwave edition of the marx + engels reader fr
I think you share a similar idea of whats wrong with the left with a certain obscure European philosopher who's name is hard to pronounce and who's ideas are hard to understand.
absolutely love "Chic-lit yaaaaaaaaaaas"
BEST ONE YET OMG
I saw Brittany Simon's video with you, and I am so glad I came over to your channel. Your content is creative, entertaining, and refreshingly original! Serious props!
sorta imagining the fascist bit at the beginning saying "cabal of globalist elites" thinking in their head "don't say jews, don't say jews, don't say jews, YES i did it"
you make a scary yet convincing fascist
The Centrist in this video is just like me XD
Crushing it again.
How about the left co-opts "full democracy" or "direct democracy" and use it more often than words like "communism"? Since what we're going for is full democracy anyway (in the workplace and society), and its something the fascists can't co-opt, wouldn't it be better if we publicize socialist demands with appeals to democracy every time we do it? Its a positive word, centrists will love it. What have we got to lose?
Nice Garfield cosplay
I agree with what you say...   But only during your parody
LONG LIVE THE PEOPLES COMMUNE OF EASTERN CAMEROON 1910-1911
This was excellent. I can empathize with both sides of the left portrayed, and as such, it's both how I see some of my internal dialogues, as well as the ones I have (mostly internally) with other leftists. I got inspired, somewhat, by the 'we need to become ice cold motherfuckers' idea, because honestly, most of what makes me cringe or shake my head at the left is when they ignore optics. I'm an artist. And I know there's times when you want to appeal to the general public, and times when you want to be raw and open. And you can 100% lure people in with the relatable, and then hit them in the gut with the raw, unfiltered truth.   Tl;dr, I like what you're doing here, Contra. I eagerly await the next video!
Hmm, I think this "Tabby" character can also be applied to most "tankies" aka "Stalin did nothing wrong, the Soviet Union was a bastion for Communism that was destroyed by the Imperialist West etc." kind of people. In many ways I see a lot of parallels with them and many of the alt-right who make the excuse that National Socialism and Nationalism in general are "positive" and that what Hitler did wasn't actually his fault and so on.   Just a thought.
I love, I love to hear you talk to yourself. You're so eloquent and you change my life every time!
This is great as usual, my only criticism I have is that I wanted to see an example of the ice cold leftism in action.
I C E C O L D M O T H E R F U C K E R
God leftists are such pathetic un-human monstrous mutants. Who the hell thinks these people could actually build a society in which human beings could flourish?
So is ContraPoints a boy or a girl?
Loved it, Tabby came across as ridiculous. I hope Justine and her centrist friend enjoyed brunch.
I love that callback at the end there.
Bb
Contra! I'm digging the exposé, but will we get to hear your current personal take on things? X
#bashthefash
The sad thing is, terrorist who were disguised as immigrants and refugees were imported into several countries, mostly in Europe, they are raping women at a rate that has never been seen before. Sweden is the Rape Capital of Europe. Not only have they been raping women at an all time high. But they have brought with them barbaric rituals like female genital mutilation. You may try and make the retarded argument that they are just reporting more rape than before. That does not mean the rapes are not happening now.
What the hell is this thing. I wouldn't want him in the same bathroom as my daughter
You mixed Mía from Dark Stalkers and Jason Unruhe.
Just gonna say that using violence for a political goal, regardless of what said goal is, is basically terrorism.   Fight me m8.
YES, new video! Missed you!
when you're both :3
Centrist (classical) liberal checking in. Good on you for criticizing this part of the left. Also, your videos are all entertaining, even when I don't always agree.
8:11 me irl
Subscribed.      Despite being a free-market capitalist who thinks Trump is doing an okay job on the whole!
will never get rid of the hammer and sickle
i want all those covers
This is so amazing I am kind of frustrated that I can't like it multiple times. =D
I'm Jackie.
The Wagner in the background was a nice touch lol
yas gurl, yaaaas!
Not to ignore the great content of the video but that antifa look is fucking fantastic.
Absolutely agree with your points about leftists. Really wish people would stop insisting communism is a good thing!!!!! even if there was a short-lived communist utopia, the reality of the situation is that communism is strongly associated with starvation, violence and oppression, and no amount of BUT MY THEORY is gonna change that. have a little respect for the people living under "communist" regimes right now, you arrogant assholes.
She does such a good job embodying the vibes of all these different characters. Tabby's far away, yet intensely close, gaze  oozes with impatience, "Why don't you just get everything already?"
outstanding work as per usual, glad to see someone putting the money hes getting into good use, too often you see people becoming complacent and just turning their webcams on
I think the biggest problem with leftists is the focus too much of theoretical end goal. Over real pragmatic incremental changes. The ACA is pretty mild step to fixing health care and it pretty much took 8 years to get through.
Love the theme tune when ContraFascist turns up!
Dat Goth Lolita leftist Contra....
This video is actually a very good example of the failures in Liberalism to correctly understand the true left is and its actual problems are, in the context of Liberalism own US very fetish of a petty left, and its narcissistic fixation on things like optics, which are far less scientific and practical than Communism.  Inadvertently, in your wrong appraisal of what leftist failings are, avoiding a very ordinary working class struggle against Capitalism, you've highlighted that Liberals are the biggest barriers to meaningful change. By second guessing ordinary workers movements with philisophical and academic posturing, the Liberal can only be a centrist.  Clintonians and Blairites alike, fixate on preserving the material status quo but making it more accessible to diverse people. The exact opposite of what true leftists want.
In some of the shots, the chess pieces are not up to date with the ongoing game.
I love that unlike a lot of youtubers you can tell she uses the patrogean money to improve her video quality
For all the criticisms being thrown at this video, the communist cat girl using queer as an insult? In my experience of leftist Twitter, that cat girl is probably at least trans, lesbian/bi/pansexual, polyamorous, surrounded by supportive followers calling her cute perpetually, and is likely a queer anarchist militant par excellance! It's naturally no coincidence that all of those signifiers apply to me in some capacity, and suffice it to say, I dive straight for deep cuts on all counts! I'm a trans NB woman, pansexual, and a relationship anarchist (yet have never been in a relationship/dated/sex'ed/kissed/unplatonic hugged/touched ungloved hands anyone); I have a adequate following that occasionally calls me cute when my anxiety doesn't push me away from Twitter for the sake of my mental stability, and it straight up isn't a revolution unless all the queers hurl the boot of systemic oppression into a black hole in the process of swallowing the sun and seize the right to be utterly nude wherever we dern well please, unless someone has trauma triggers stemming from genitalia, perhaps! All said, you're always welcome in the non-toxic dumpster fire part of socialist Twitter to learn true praxis! :D  That aside, I find the psychological dynamics on display between the two main characters of this installment to be fascinatingly fraught with dissonant self-critique. I find Gwen-no-Fear's observation that the Justine character, for all the self depreciation to be read into her lampshading of her arguably incoherent and ineffectual liberalism, is framed as a moral authority and teacher in the exchange in contrast to the more impulsive and toxic Tabby to be at least rather valid. Noting that, it seems that Justine could still be read as a more complicated character than that framing could potentially convey, leaving textual space to imagine a continuing internal conflict within Contra regarding her own perspective. This is also possibly illustrated by the... less charitable aspects of the Tabby character, intimating a ongoing process of forming a critical, if sympathetic, relationship with those currently further "left", as it were. I found the observation of pedantic and counter-productive sectarianism an accurate reflection of behaviors I've seen among internet "leftists". Mexie's even made a video dissecting this phenomenon and how it contrasts with her experiences of discourse involving leftist ideas in academia. However, I find that, on the whole, Contra seems to hold a perhaps exceedingly broad perspective on the prevalence of "excess" optimism and pessimism and attempts at accessibility by the left, at least in terms of her own claims regarding how she incorporated it into Tabby, likely the functional microcosm of leftism in this reading of the work. I grant acknowledgement of the presence of strains of both for fairness (Third-Worldists, posadists, and accelerationists for the former, and "Read a book!" lefties for the latter as but a few examples) and agree such behaviors are worthy of criticism in their own right, but the framing erases a good deal of nuance in recognition of activities, beliefs, and discourse that runs counter to behaviors presented here. While this is arguably in accordance with the intention of the character's function by the author, I question the efficacy of accentuating the negative to quite this degree in reaching leftists to whom some of the observations apply, but not others, or even those with problems that have yet to be addressed. The word "strawman" has already been attributed to the character a number of times, and I foresee it being used yet more. Despite that, while I don't find the term necessarily inaccurate myself, I also don't find it sufficient grounds for dismissal of all ideas conveyed by the character, as it could be easily argued that satire is necessarily reliant on strawmen by certain definitions.  So, as per usual, what was initially going to be a silly, cute joke ended up another indulgent treatise that took far too much time to write. Well, while I'm on my bullshit, some more indulgences. For the personal disadvantages that my psychological callouses and defense mechanisms cause, they do prove occasionally helpful in conveying the "ice-cool" demeanor in some internet conversations on these topics. Also, whenever I hear "breadlines and gulags" now, I tend to think of food stamps, homeless shelters, orphanages, and private prisons. Not that I'd by any means argue that the latter make the former excusable (I ain't no tankie!), but I find it helps put in perspective just how terrible capitalism is too not merely many, but most subjected to it. Approximately over a hundred million people continue to die every couple of years due to preventable causes because of private resource ownership after all, but y'all know that! Anyway, vive la commune and may gender transitions flow like water!
And then when the normal chick say "my queen is open. Het where you going?" Does the antifa chick say "I'm going to bash the vag'." !?
Is it just me or did the antifa chick say "I think we should just be friends, while I finger myself out."? If so, that's brilliant cuz I was laughing my ass of at that for 5min.
Not gonna lie, your redesign of The Marx-Engels Reader just confirms my belief that we need     S Y N T H W A V E     L E F T I S M
This video only needed to be the first two and a half minutes, I got it immediately. Hilarious!
You may have created a monster in creating Tabby, for like Harry Enfield's Loadsamoney character she's actually way too appealling and is concincing me to bash the fash and give no fucks
I needed this.
Gonna need to watch more your content to nail this down, but you cannot seriously think that a media made up solely of liberal gladhanding is actually pro conservative.
6:15 needs to be a gif with sound.
Bash the fash dfkm
I literally can't get enough of your channel! Witty, informative and hilarious.
This has a Kubrick quality to it.
The Trump hands!!!!!  "The facist" is doing THE TRUMP HANDS!!!!!!
"YAAASSSS GIRL YAAASSSSS" 😂😂😂😂😂
I'm also an anarcho-syndicalist LMAO  this is hilarious
Nice use of Wagner at the beginning!$!#$
"lack of being cool" is the least of SJW  problems.
It absolutely hurts my brain to imagine creating dialogue for two characters that espouse opposing views, but who express them in such a way that I'm simultaneously critical of them and sympathetic to them BOTH. Bravo for that, and thanks for always making me legitimately question myself!!!
LOL - you should have a female wing chun kung fu character who just argues everything using wing chun machine gun chain punches while screaming kung fu noises!! (obviously this is an offensive stereotypical caricature - so don't do that)
You're a fucking genius. I hate you.
I also agree with the whole messaging/image issue.  I think the real "Far Left" (and by that I don't mean what Bill O'Reilly thinks is the "Far Left", but the actual far Left) tend to not understand this while the moderates only understand this.  In a sense, I intellectually grew up debating on internet forums and YouTube, and then on to academia.  So it's never been absent from my life the impact of arguments and what makes an effective argument.  In terms of persuasion, your image and style matter as much as how you feel and what you think.  If you can combine all of these together in your own unique way, you will be able to compel people to respect your views.  There's a reason why ContraPoints, Nostalgia Chick, and similar YouTubers who remain calm and funny do not share the scorn that Anita Sarkeesian and so forth received.  And I think Contra is raising a really important point here, it has to do with the ability to be calm, collected, and in control.  I hadn't quite considered it in these terms, and it's an interesting point.
I need that aesthetic music!
i love this video so goddamn much
Contra confirmed tankie
Contra helped me realize that I don't know. Thanks Contra!
Try Ancaps next time.
Tabbys official title is Chairperson Meow.
hmmm I get the feeling that you've been becoming very interested in the left lately your using language that someone who may have informed themselves would use. Much better than your last time reaching out to us. And I think I see your point. We need books with       A          S         T         H          E       T         I         C         covers. Also I hate it when fellow leftists use the word propaganda ppl don't understand that word the same way we do so it makes us look purposefully deceptive.
It's not optics, you are fighting a purity spiral.
Considering that you brought up anarcho-syndicalism, Noam Chomsky also recently had some points to make about anti-fascist violence that I think you might be interested in.  Basically, violence and brutality are the game of the far right, and progressives whose politics are motivated by compassion, justice, and peace, will never be able to beat fascists at their own game using their own strategies.  What do you think?
Hegelian Dialectics?  Its like Im playing Fallout New Vegas.
This video is making me unreasonably angry. I don't even know why, I'm a social democrat and I live in a country where that is a fairly mainstream ideology. I guess it's the whole "yeah, the obsession with optics and 'centrists' holding left-wingers to much higher standards than right-wingers stuff is bullshit, but it's reality and you have to deal with it" thing. I've said as much myself, but it still pisses me off.  And even if I live in Canada, I am a dual citizen. I get to vote in the US.
But are those cat gloves comfortable though?
There's a whole bunch of small communes that practice stuff things pretty close to real communism.  Not going to list them, go look for them.
This is so beautiful and wonderfully explained! I've had thoughts on both ends of the chess game, and seeing it played out quite so literally is enlightening.
Tabby's response to the accusation of the left's emotionality is my mantra.
My initial reaction after watching this video was to go into the comments and post a "Whilst I usually enjoy your videos..." kind of comment. But perhaps the reason your videos are so good, is that I did feel somewhat attacked by your characterisation of a movement I support. And the reason I felt attacked was because your critique was too close to the bone for my personal comfort. I certainly think that the radical left needs to work on rebranding itself, it needs to be able to gain traction with real people again. But it's always difficult to balance ideology with accessibility. Because the more fervently you begin to believe something, the harder it is to concede that it needs to be somewhat watered down to be palatable to the unconverted. How do you make advocating for revolution appear inoffensive and realistic? How do you set achievable goals without compromising the integrity of your radical beliefs? How do you destroy fascism without insisting on destroying it? It's difficult to figure out, and its something we should be putting our minds to. But I'm not even sure where to begin. Anyway, well done Contrapoints, this was a well-constructed and thought-provoking video. As Always.
the vapourwave reference had me in tears!
The left isn't just uncool, it's totally irrational and stuck up its own ass.
I ship it
that freedom report part cracked me up 😂
You are grandiose
I don't like either the Alt-right *or* Antifa specifically because of the identity politics which both sides engage in. ID politics are, by definition, divisive and that's the *last* thing we need right now.
Loved the video! One thought I'd like to add regarding optics, though: Their perception can change, dramatically. The right under Trump has pretty successfully become less and less crypto and has shifted the discurse partly by just being unabashedly (from our view) awful and never, ever backing down. Turns out a lot of people kinda respect that. I think pussyfooting around clear commitments to left-wing ideas can hurt from a very strategic standpoint, too. Bernie called himself a socialist, which is pretty wild for US standards and while he ultimately failed I would argue that more people standing up and clearly commiting to and communicating left-wing ideas can normalise them in the long run.
Nazis deserve violence just for being Nazis.
god you're awesome - taking video and criticsim and activism to a new, combined level
i love tabby holy shit
Okay, but liberals do get the bullet too
I'm impressed.
its the third way that is to blame a co-op of both conservatism and traditional labour values that nobody likes that caused much a disatisfaction amongst the electorate
Hello contra. What is your opinion on this?.  http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/uk-41384473
Great video! But... who taught you to play chess? MovieBob? ;)
Great analysis overall as always!
Hunter s Thompson was a great example of mainstream leftism. Angry and weird, but admirable as hell.
When you came out talking about Hegel I nearly fell out of my chair laughing.
Good video. As a leftist I have had a lot of the same thoughts about the presentation of the left.
I wouldn't argue immigration is a problem because it will cause rape etc. I would argue its a problem because it will never be a final solution. Immigration is not fair as many blindly believe. What about the incredibly impoverished who are too disconnected to make it here? They are the majority and we turn our backs on them in favor of immigrants more suited to live here.
ROTFLMAO!!! Excellent work, as always, Contra!
Well said
I'm basically Tabby (I'm even way into Hegel), and this is a pitch perfect "call out". The most spot on part of this is when she shifts having brunch with centrists to "people who defend fascists". That kind of "condemnation by remove" is a distinctive feature of the way left activists behave, and how we end up so isolated. Great video.
I love this video.
First of  FUCK YOU ICE COOL BULLSHIT  1 Anarco Furry Nazi Puncher worth more than 30.000 Useless Pacifist Liberals holding signs.  I dont get it were you trying to be ironic?  Or you literally meant what you said to the anarchist, cause if you did it was fucking stupid.  There absolutely NOTHING you can do peacefully what will change the System , you literally sounded like just another LIBERAL trying to infiltrate Left to promote LIBERALISM   If there is one criticism i can make about the american Left is that they are not violent enough, and to based on Communist countries and foreig thinkers is what made the left so competent WORLD WIDE .  Your idea of the ideal leftists is someone some one has done nothing to destoy capitalism? You know who is my ideal Leftist figure? Fidel Fucking Castro , not only was a wise leader but badass soldier that literally fought and won a armed revolution  and depite living in a tiny island was strong enough to survive American imperialism and its massive military force .  Even after his death Castro still helping MILLIONS of people world wide Who Dafuck is Miles Davis?
As a centrist, my platform is mimosas. I feel very accurately represented.
this is everything that I haven't been able to put into words... I love you
Just a few proposal to make the antifa movement more appealing  1. Do not call yourself antifa  I know that sound dumb, but people don't like a reaction movement. They usually prefer a movement promoting an idea or defending something dear to them. That's why saying you are defending our democracy is something that can be appealing. You can say you are constitutionalist or freedom loving american (yes the right usually use these terms, but it doesn't mean you can't take it back or find something better I suck with naming things). Prove this by mobilising not only against facist, but also by trying to promote ideas like proportional voting (you can always call it 1=1, for 1 vote for 1 citizen, afterall trump is in charge despite the fact more people voted for hillary). 2. Reach out Try to associate with other organisations that aren't fighting for your idea, but that may be affected by the rise of facist. Try to see if the organiser of a pride would be ok with having NON VIOLENT representative of your movement join in a rally. Or try reaching out to mothers organisations fighting for better gun regulations (the facist are usually pro guns). Movement for the rights of minority can also be people that you may reach out to. After all  I doubt they'd all be hostile to a group litteraly fighting facist (has long has you show you will be well behave and respectful). Always ask nicely and accept calmly if they refuse insulting them doesn't help anyone.   Reaching out to those group will make you appealing to a wider range of organisations. It will help you also expand your own view of the world. Finally it will create a greater solidarity within left leaning group which would never have though fighting facist would help them live a better live.  3. Rebrand yourself Contra made this point clear enough, so I just want to stretch the point quickly that looking mother fucking ice is better than sounding like lunatics. Be conscious of your image and try projecting a calm and steady movement fighting lunatics waving tikky torches.  4. Take time for introspection You should ask yourself not why you are fighting facist (they are obviously terrible), but for what (familly, ideology,personnal experience,etc.). Taking a bit of time to think about that and trying then to integrate those personnal motivations into your ideologies and discourses can go a long way into making you more sympathic to a wide audience and more internaly motivated to carry this fight to the end. I'm personally motivated, because my grand parents had their lives destroyed by the nazi occupation of Belgium. They lived in fear and distrust everywhere they went and even 70 years after they never forgot these 5 horrible years. And I swore that it would never happen again that I'll do what I can so that it never happen again. I'm watching the rise of the nazi from Canada and I know that this will spread here.   What's the reason you are fighting?
This was an awesome video! You're really good at articulating your points! I really do agree that people on the left should have a diverse range of options when faced with various situations. Basically the point is not to put all of your eggs in one basket.
Really enjoyed this one. Wasn't too crazy about the last 2-3 videos
They sure have a lot of pawns on the board in relation to other pieces. Are you so left you don't want to lose your pawns?
Contra only makes films to flirt with themselves.
This channel is so cool that i forgot that i was ancap. I still watch it in secret though.
All Contras Are Beautiful
I...ship it?
Now that you've come out as a girl, will you ever play male characters again?
I like how you are presenting your point like your viewer are Idiots.
Wow thank you for spreading your memes contra, great memes!
I'm getting that red rose patch for my denim american flag jacket.
researching leftist ideologies as a non-academic is mind-numbingly difficult and i think this video outlines what an issue that is  normies like me who instinctively know the right is full of shit but don't actually have the time/drive to penetrate the history and lingo of the left are caught in the awkward position of knowing something's wrong but ignorant of any alternative theories or explanations through which to view the world. the right is agile as fuck and they know how to dumb down their ideologies (to their own detriment), and that makes it difficult to compete intellectually with them out in the wild  as the discourse continues to deteriorate i'm making it a point to study up more but goddammit i almost got that chicken dinner in pubg last night i was so close just one more game shit
I wish every leftist would watch this video. I'm not even a leftist either, I just want the far left to get their act together.
I'm just her for vapormarx
You come across as a really typical leftist who has absolutely nothing to say about economics, either micro or macro, foreign policy, anything that doesn't seem morally obvious and completely banal e.g. gay rights or abortion. Naturally you've fallen into the bizarro mind warp that instructs you to Feel Mega Bad if immigration is restricted, because how else would your can't-engage-with-the-economy brain deal with political identity? It has to do it through entertainment. I would never vote Republican in a billion years and figure Trump will get us nuked by NK, but this video strikes me as just an extension of you convincing yourself it's Super Mega Helpful to be wrapped up in moral panic because you can't bear the alternative. Get over it. If we un-rig the vote we can move the whole discussion from where it is to somewhere infinitely more sane. Nothing about "fascism" has or will appear anywhere on the radar.
i love the waking up to a new contrapoint video.
This video was great. You are great, keep it going champ!
A moment of silence for Bruce and Trixie
I agree with the brunt of the criticism – the academic, white, Internet-based, memetic Left has a terrible image among the general public, and our general posture and attitude doesn't help.  I don't quite agree with the proposed solution.  It doesn't go deep enough.  The problem is, I think, deeper than simple optics, presentation, or propaganda strategies (consider Trump; no matter how stupid, funny, or ineffective he looks, his base remains unshakable; it's a good exercise to consider *why*). The problem is that the academic Left has disconnected itself from the workers, from the disenfranchised, from thieves and beggars and winos, from miners and construction people and streetwalkers and undocumented immigrant housemaids.  And it's easy to see why, and it's a hard problem to solve.  What does a privileged, middle-class anarcho-syndicalist trans catgirl have in common with your average opiod-crisis victim? How can they even approach each other, or speak the same language? And yet it's for them that leftist politics exist in the first place.  The task of connecting intellectual to worker is hard, but it's been done before; we'd do well to study how, to learn from history (e.g. the mass line), and then actually doing it.
Justine: "ICE COLD." (Eruption starts playing)  cognitive dissonance naaaaaaaahhh
leftism is based around emotionality, so if you teach them how to be ice-cold, they will just turn into conservatives btw love you gay lisp at the start ;-P
Excellent video as ALWAYS beautiful contra. Really got me thinkin. U are an inspiration for lefties out there, like myself. Favorite quotes "Actually, I'm an anarcho- cyndicalist" LMAO...and "is someone ready to bring her wares to the free market place of ideas?....u get the bullet too"
It would be interesting to discuss optics fails of other branches of progressive politics, like the Clinton technocratic types or Bernie economic progressives.  This might be a discussion that moves beyond the fringes.
AHAHAHA HOLY CRAP https://twitter.com/Tinkzorg https://twitter.com/Markus_Allard
This was HILARIOUS!
I'm loving the lighting. Who does the cinematography?
She's right, you know. There's no better way to get shit from people near the center than to appear fervent about something. Betray any sort of emotion and you're a bleeding heart, or whatever.
Oh look, the rich kid is going to educate us on 'facism' and help us identify facisuspby mimicking the presidents hand gestures as though that too is a symbol of a 'facist'.......  Those are some nice soft hands from handling all that money and privilige you grew up with, wealthy young debutante.  Youre (a sexy) symbol of the out of touch , wealthy , champaign-socialist of the left **grins** congrats, товариш
"So what does it mean to be cool?" Yeah, solve that one real quick, Sokrates.
It's been a day and I've been thinking.  Miles Davis, Ice Cold.  bell hooks, Ice Cold.  Black Panthers, all Ice Cold Motherfuckers.  Seems the solution is what Black and other PoC have been saying all along: centre and elevate and follow the leadership of Black and other PoC in the Leftist movement.  All of those "sjw freak out" clips you had were of white people.  Not that Black people don't get emotional.  Not that the angry black woman stereotype is true or undamageing.  Not that "sassiness" as defined by a white audience is a virtue.  Just that when you have been playing the anti-fascist game your whole entire life, (and PoC and especially Black people and especially especially Black women do not have a choice in this matter; their existence is anti-fascist and anti-fascism is key to their survival) the elusive "thick-skin" so often touted by the right as what the Left is lacking, develops pretty early.  Maybe white leftists don't need better optics.  Maybe we need to finally stfu and take a back seat to leaders of colour like we should have been doing all along.
we all need to be more like rick james...and I don't mean dead :D
contra you're the absolute best and your videos are single handedly elevating youtube to something smarter and more creative. so glad you're around. <3
This was great! Made me reconsider by political Opinion thanks for that!
Wow, amazing video! :)
I started talking about dialectis with a girl in my sociology class today, I feel so called out. Our text book says historical materialism which I think is a much better way of wording it to the average person tbh.
I would just like to thank you for knocking me out of the stupid alt-right echochamber I have been trapped in for so long. I was a self labeled communist in 10th grade romanticizing violent revolution to bring on the anarcho-commune. Only then to switch hardcore to anti sjw stop whining about your problems blacks/trans/Muslim etc  I now find myself in what I consider a healthy middle, and I credit that to your channel showing me for the past few months I have known of it that the radical left perverts many great concepts down to a level where backlash is inevitable  Thus you have a new radical right who's ideas are picking up steam in response to the left. I personally believes the left does more to perpetuate this due to the reasons you expressed in this video, that intro was spot fucking on.  TL;DR contra is awesome keep up the fantastic work
Completely disagree. I don't think the "cool" factor is something we should recognize as a good trait or as a strategy to be implemented, we should instead try to educate people. A movement based on being "cool" is just going to want to be "cool" and will crumble or change to another movement, destroying the entire goal.
"Don't call it propaganda! The could be liberals listening!"
This style of critique yet meta self awareness is your native habitat Contra - these caricatures still have a degree of truth resonance abut them. Platos 'Dialogues' will never be read quite the same way now....thanks for that.
Putting aside the main of the video, I think the full nazi speech was a mistake. Lindsay Ellis recent vid "Mel Brooks, The Producers and the Ethics of Satire about N@zis" watch?v=62cPPSyoQkE&t=29m28s made the point that while America History X unambiguously lambastes Nazis, it's also loved by Nazis despite that message.  This video made a full-throated and unambiguous speech for white ethnonationalism based in racial fear. And, if short, as a speech it was a good speech. That it was done satirically and that this channel is absolutely not in support of the Fritz character... does not matter. Some people will hear the speech, and nothing else.
Can you please do more discussion videos where you talk to other people about certain ideas?  I love the two videos you do a month but the way you engage with ideas is so refreshing especially when it's done in a live context. I wish there were more people like you making content on youtube.
A little unfair to put the Pilgrim's Chorus from Tannhäuser under this. Like, if you're going to do the whole Wagner Nazi thing and don't want to do Walkürenritt I would opt for Rienzi overture or Meistersinger.  ps: love u
I, for one welcome our furry antifa overlords
This was brilliant and I laughed out heartily when I was least expecting it. Awesome stuff. Also, the antifa character is really cute. Sincerely, Not-a-trans-antifa-cat-girl
This is fucking bullshit, THAT KING WAS IN CHECK, he was in check for at least 2 turns by that rook. Im srry if im not the only one who saw that and if im bringing up the obvious.
Good message, but I don’t think most normies will take a trap seriously.
Every video you make is even better than the last. I don't know how that's still possible, but it's true.
This is probably your best work yet. I died at Vaporwave Manifesto lmao.
This video confuses me even more about what the fuck I'm supposed to be. I'm left-wing and I want to make positive change and I'm so confused rn ;-;
Hi Contra, I really enjoy your videos. They have really helped me disconnect from my alt right beliefs. Your videos about feminism and gender issues have been particularly insightful.  My only issue is that sometimes, when you reference the refugee crisis/ third world immigration, you don't seem to be as aware of some of the better arguments on the anti-immigration side.   If you're interested, I'd recommend the strange death of europe by Douglas Murray. He seems to be advancing more plausible, well thought out arguments than the fascist here.
This is one of the best videos I have watched in my entire life
I'm so happy to have found you. Great video, and your ability to create different characters is impressive, even beyond the political commentary.
I'm vigorously -anti-communist- anti-Stalinist, but thank you, thank you, thank you for explaining why being obnoxious and nauseatingly theoretical is completely repulsive, and encouraging them to stop replying to "Good afternoon" with "Don't even _look_ at me unless you've read Gryppenschœffler and Xsięnčełsui, for _starters."_
It is a funny coincidence that during The October Revolution in Russia the world Contra (Контра) was used to describe counter revolutionaries.  I'm not hinting at anything.
As a trans Antifa cat man I loved this video
Can anyone link me to some reading on the Eastern Cameroon thing? I'd like to learn more about that, I've never heard about it before.
Woah you put Wagner at the beginning.
A+ aesthetic
Congratulations, you made a vaporwave joke without using Machintosh Plus   Also, well said.
I want a lot of same things that SJWs want but if you talk with them they always end up making huge generalisations about white people. Like a lot of white people I'm on their side mostly but feel completely ostracised by they're racism towards whites.   I think fixing that will do more for them than trying to act cool.
Anarcho syndicalists aren't Marxists lol
Commies are pigs. Any asshat that wants to live like that can move to a country that has it.
5:54 Someone should definitely market that chick-lit Marx Engels makeover.
Complains about Chinese exploitation. Still uses a Mac.
This is utterly hilarious. Contra, you are fantastic.
good thing you figured out your own faults - over intellectualising topics to the point that no one can understand it unless they have done research in the topic
This was great.
*clink clink clink* I wonder what a collaboration with Styx would look like, that's about all.
Nice trump hands.
The cover with brand logos is a good idea!
Stalin would round up, gulag and shoot every single modern day leftist. Hitler would round up and gas all modern day neo Nazis. My ancestors are smiling at me tranny, can you say the same?
Contra I wish you could be my waifu. But moreover I am a BILLION PERCENT WITH YOU on the cool thing. Especially the ice cold.
Which is exactly why the government infiltrates and orchestrates.
LIKE LIKE LIKE LIKE A MILLION TIMES LIKE! Best video you have made Contra.
Thank You for making these Films,  Ms. Contra
I really enjoy your videos, I'm a part of the odd bunch that don't normally interact with your videos, and just sit and enjoy your content, but right now I'm drunk and that inhibition to socially interact is gone. Yay!  Really, these videos help me out a lot, I did get a minor in philosophy, but it's only going to take me so far in self discovery. Figuring out that middle ground of reality and idealism is important. I feel like if heaven and hell are the extremes of utopia and dystopia that the real world is always going to be closer to hell, if we're comparing to the extreme. We can always imagine something so much better than reality, but my dream sex palace isn't sustainable, so some kind of compatibilist  system has to come out of this dialogue. And soon, I can't stand not having dreamy hunks at every corner of my room, we have to fix this sometime soon. :P
The wallpaper in the background is so trippy
I really  like the idea of the "endgame" play motif, but misanthropic feelings get in the way of enjoying it. I get the idea that the "they" won't really be defeated, but I can get behind the idea that this particular alt-right iteration of "they" will and can be defeated.
YOU ARE THE BESTEST!!!
I liked this dialogue a lot. Although at the early point of the video contra was criticizing furry-antifa from a liberal (no offense) point of view it still helped to highlight the weaknesses of the left - namely; lack of conviction ("I'm only wearing this ironically"), anti-masses approach to organizing and building mass support (the whole speech on Hegel at the start and the subsequent hissing at the audience afterwards), and the unnecessary edginess that many leftists propagate (not that there's anything wrong with being "edgy", it's just how you apply that).
I've mostly given up on deciding whether "Tabby" or "Justine" is my political philosophy.  Not sure punching nazis is really useful, but damn it's satisfying.
Dumb ugly tranny
imo the DSA has great optics. Nice logo with modern styling. I mean its a rose with two people holding hands! Even normies can get behind that.
I adore your videos immensely. I love the characters you've invented, the stories you tell, and the way you convey your message. Also, I really hope to see more of Tabby in the future because... um... reasons. Yeah. We'll go with that. Reasons.
Hey, I also sent this as a message because I'm not sure which way is best to get in touch with you directly, sorry if I'm being annoying lol.  I was/am considering making a response to this video because there's a lot I disagree with, but when I went to re-watch the video I realized I couldn't exactly discern your point. I largely agree with your critique of leftist movements, but when Justine begins to make a point or offer an alternative to Tabby's unpalatable militancy, that point is almost immediately rescinded or obscured by satire and jokes, e.g. when Justine talks about rebranding the left, she, in two separate instances, actually makes real suggestions in how to rebrand, with both the "ironic" book covers and in being "ice cold motherfuckers". But both of these suggestions are presented in such a manner and with such a tone that it makes it hard to discern whether or not you actually support rebranding at all. Basically, what was your point with this video? I don't want to misrepresent your ideas.
Hi ho silver away, the "ok" sings over the eyes, missed Ace Ventura Pet Detective reference. Always timely with Jim Carrey.
Another lovely contribution from Contrapoints. Seriously. Thank You.
1. Catgirls are hawt 2. I want to bury my head in the sand. The left NEEDS to change a few things if we want to get people on our side.
"The Freedom Report" I died at that
contra for prez
Goddamn this was funny. And goddamn I'm glad I can understand any of it.
Contra you are a genius.
The world doesn't deserve Contrapoints.
okay you've won me over
I feel like my understanding of politics and economics isn't quite nuanced enough for me to truly appreciate this kind of approach. I feel weird for partially agreeing with the liberal/centrist.
Also has Dave Rubin responded to Contra yet that would be great lol.
This is the best video ever, great job! So much truth in this.
I love the "lots of brands" cover of the Marx Engels Reader!
Omg the brunchgate reference lololololol
Commenting again for amazing Miles Davis reference. I love his work.
Fantastic hand movements,  another chilling classic from the amazing ContraPoints
5:33 ((( a e s t h e t i c )))
Communism = all equally STARVING 💀💀💀💀💀💀💀💀💀💀💀💀
New Contrapoints yaaay~~~~
Thanks for the consistently high quality content.  I have to thank you for coming on Destiny's stream because your videos have helped my political views mature a lot.   The dialogue between your characters mirrors the running conversation going on in my head about these issues, and I share a lot of your views and complaints. It's nice to see them distilled in this entertaining way. I give you a lot of credit for saving me from a lot of the more insidious faux centrist crap on youtube.  The ICE COLD idea makes a lot of sense-- the more collected and calm we are the less we get put in SJW TRIGGERED LOL compilations. I've noticed this on Destiny's debate streams. His opponents were able to make him angry and emotional in the past but recently he's made more of an effort to be cool and collected and they've just made themselves look stupid. It's unfair that the other side will always seek to misrepresent us and laugh at our passion, but I think you've touched on a really key issue regarding the optics here, so thank you.
basically, your point is white people are hopeless? i can agree with that
🖕🏼🖕🏼🖕🏼NOT EXTREME LEFT = FASCIST 🖕🏼😘😘
It is the few self-conscious lefties like you keeping liberalism alive, fresh, and approachable. Please never stop. Your degree is not going to waste. I'm in grad school now and I think how we think is even more important than what we think about. You're totally right. Quoting theory and philosophers means nothing to most people. Knowing how to make a just movement appealing is what real intelligence is.   Also, from the little I've seen from undercover stories in fascist groups, they do sell themselves as very approachable on the surface. They gain so many followers or sympathizers that way. Their theory is still there, though. It's just that they provide it only to those who seek it out rather than spewing it in people's faces like Tabby does here. It's on the backwater forums and in dark, intimate coffee shops that Hitler and the like are talked about in theoretical and applicable ways. But on the streets and on the internet there are the vast majority of Americans who like their stuff, desire normalcy, and have the capacity to sympathize, but end up confused as to who to sympathize with. It sucks that fascist rhetoric is about convincing a crowd that they should be mobilized to act for themselves while more liberal rhetoric is about convincing a crowd that they should be mobilized to act for others.
bruce and trixie </3 RIP
I don't like the fact that you never refer to rightist as what they are. Rightist. You seem to simplify it down to leftist, centrist, fascist. There is a difference to be made from rightists and far/alt-right nazis. Never will the left be taken seriously if everyone who is opposed to them is a fascist.
Had high hopes for this one.
ugh...
"real communism does not lead to starvation and dictatorship" "has there ever been 'real communism'?" lmaooo
air
my main take away was that Contra as a catgirl is the sexist thing ever; jk (that's true but it wasn't my main takeaway).
This is one of the best videos I've seen on YouTube in general. You have everything: relevant points, comedy, nuance, aesthetixxx... and I think the argument is something leftists really need to consider right about now. Thanks so much for making this content, I've not seen anyone do it so well before.
My partner tried to talk to me while I was watching this, and I had to interrupt: "I'm sorry, this video is changing my life." You perfectly encapsulated so many sides of this discussion, and hopefully we'll get to talking about how to reconcile these issues, assuming we can.
I would agree with your critique of using black bloc in our current political moment; small mobilizations of anarchists is actually pretty anti-worker because it operates under the assumption that only the activist core understands the threats of fascism and that workers won't fight to protect themselves. I'm in the ISO, and while we don't disagree with violence we would agree that tactically mass mobilizations like the one in Boston are much more effective.   The left needs to be recruiting, we need to be mindful of our image but I won't compromise on my beliefs to attract workers to our side; the only way that we're going to get better at recruitment conversations is by having a lot of them. Ultimately people's attitudes change through struggle so getting more folks involved in fights for reforms and fights against oppression in our current day is essential to building any revolutionary workers movement. Also we need an independent labor party in the US and DSA could become that party potentially if they don't squander their moment and right now they don't seem to be.  If you're looking for some sexy Marxist literature you should definitely check out haymarketbooks.org. I'd love to talk to you privately about the politics of the ISO and how we're building for another world.
Tabby is a QT
"Actually... I'm a Mutualist" is my response. Not any better, maybe worse.
Centrists have killed far more people in the last decades years than any other group.  Fuck them.
The trouble is, you fail to acknowledge subset of those on the left, who are as awful as the right wing when it comes to anti-intellectual, conspiratorial nonsense.  This is the crowd that mocks conservatives for being anti-science (when it comes to evolution, climate change ect...) while at the same time decrying economists as tools of the global neoliberal ruling class. It is a profoundly hypocritical and anti-intellectual to dismiss areas of economic consensus among economists, while believing only research that supports their priors. I am talking about the Naomi Klien, and Nancy McClain crowd who wade into Alex Jones level of conspiracy to the point where they sound like left wing versions of Jordan Peterson. If the "Alt-Left" is going to be a serious force, it needs to stop relying on dogmatic cranks like Richard Woleff.
you're a very engaging filmmaker and i love all your characters.
Why are guillotines and 'libs get the bullet too' more alienating than free helicopter rides and gas chambers? I honestly don't think they are. Can improvements be made on code switching? Probably, but leftist shitposts about killing kulaks is the road to being ice cold. You can't be cool while worrying about optics.
this is hilarious and i love it
Hey, you take that Wagner background music off right this instant. Wagner was no fascist.
I wish I had more friends that were leftist militants, or you know just more friends.
6:03 That line did things to me I feel a little guilty admitting to.
This was actually a really good video. Tabby was the perfect personification of the left: its inflexibility, ideological purity tests, and nitpicking bullshit. I have to say though that I have problems with the your criticisms of centrists. I actually think that centrists have an advantage being able to play devil's advocate and see the flaws in opposing arguments. The majority of people that do not give a fuck are the ones who have jobs and families. Also, Nazis were defeated in WWII. Any true Nazis that remain are in exile in the Americas or elsewhere but Neo-Nazis suck also.
that mao poster at 2:36
I'm a centrist who thinks your sjw philosohpy is poison but you are fucking brilliant. bravissima! more! more!
I have this theory, after Tina Fey was eaten recently. That all the people know who hold themselves at the fore front of social progression on the left. Will be replaced by even further left people. And then those people that ate Tina, that point the finger at centrists as if their evil. Will then be eaten, by the new most progressive segment. And on and on and on and on...  But what the fuck do I know.
Your hair is so pretty
Ａ Ｅ Ｓ Ｔ Ｈ Ｅ Ｔ Ｉ Ｃ　Ｍ Ａ Ｒ Ｘ
I dunno how much I agree with this video. I've spent some time on Tumblr, so I know people like the cat leftist totally exist. However, far from being the majority I think the examples that right wing people complain about routinely come from pretty moderate presentable people. Even Anita's videos, which are peak making online people mad, are presentable and don't go in for a lot of the more confronting leftist ideas. Conversely I think actual fascists have little self awareness, and turn people off pretty fast.
I have that exact same Marx Engles reader book!
This is how the Matrix soundtrack was meant to be used.
we need a contrapoints wiki to keep track of the contrapoints characters and lore
As an antifa leftist trans catgirl I'D LIKE TO SAY SOMETHING...  ...Kings can't check themselves by moving next to Kings.  Also, great video! (I'm not a catgirl)
Like with the punching natsees video I sort of vehemently agree with both. I see myself in both characters and I'm not sure how to strike a balance.
You know you're a contra fan when Jackie appearing on screen makes you laugh for 5 minutes straight.
Die Linke!
I think antifa are cool, american antifa not as much but in europe, especially greece they're fucking cool as shit
You're the greatest YouTuber of all time
Brilliant as usual!
I used to tweet stuff about nuking the politicians who disagreed with me from orbit, but my uncle told me to give up that life...
Was Bruce the one with the hammer?
Fucking "Nightclubbing"-era Grace Jones! - that's what you need. Just listen to "Pull up to the bumper" - you'll know what I mean...    It's practically a bose-einstein condensate it is yes. Edit; I mean like yeh. Ahem. There's a song called "Pull up to the bumper" you may want to check out by Grace Jones from her album "Nightclubbing". swooo  [some words that cannot be said or thought...] it's cool.
Progress isn't a game of swaying centrists. It happens by marginalized people fighting for their own interests, not by petitioning liberals.
each video a little piece of art, and each one better than the last one. amazing. this is developing amazingly. and that i say as a more center-right guy. congratulations.
Also... it might NOT be a good idea to BAN every person from commenting on your Antifa FB pages that DARES criticize you?  Just makes you look like a fucking echo chamber and cowardly
I have never felt so personally called out before
One issue is that I don't really buy that SJWs are the same people undertaking dangerous street action as Antifa. The idea that there is something baby-bathwater about effective proximal resistance and bad, misdirected propaganda (I used the word) is something I don't buy. The Antifa SJW portrayed here is more an amalgam of two tendencies that probably don't coincide in the same person so much in reality. Making a plausible case for one's politics, using public standards of reason and not failing to recognize that liberal demonizing and self-exonerating claims of ideological purity are unhelpful, is not inconsistent with direct action.
I actually agree more with the cat lady/man.
I also think it's perhaps a bit "pathetic" that antifa is *out in full force* when, say, a group of fascists and Nazis come to someone's town to do a rally or protest, and then... that's it.  After safety has been guaranteed, where are the antifa people to STILL HELP the marginalized groups?  Poof! They're gone... for those black or brown or trans folks to, in some respect, still live in "squalor."  DO most antifa members also, say, help poor folks out with charity or getting them better jobs under the current system, or contribute to shit like The Trevor Project for LGBT Americans?  Do they fight to ensure far less harassment and murder of trans people?  do they fight to keep shit like DACA legal?  How many 'potential rapes', esp. of women, have members of antifa prevented? Or is the "extent" of their "revolutionary leftism" just punching nazis every now and then... and talking theory on their 'off-days'?  If most members of antifa ARE, in fact, contributing to several worthy leftist causes OUTSIDE just "punching nazis" then... PROMOTE THAT SHIT!  Tell people THAT'S WHAT YOU ALSO DO. SHOW EXAMPLES, FFS! Don't let the Right and fascists distort your movement.  You guys seriously need to do a much-better PR JOB!  QUit assuming that, "Well, at SOME POINT, most people will 'get it' w/ no help from us"
What is this song? Am I hearing Inglourious Basterds rn? -_- pls help
6:06 very cathartic
Finally, acknowledging the problems with the far left without playing to this ridiculous narrative that they're in any way equivalent to Nazis and the far rught
We have to go back to the leftism of the early 20th century. We have to appeal directly to the working class with our theory put in less academic terms and we have to appeal to their emotions, while staying cool. The right does that significantly better than us.  Also I think being edgy kind of helps more than it does harm. It gets especially young people into leftism. Leftism is kind of booming on the internet right now. Only 2 years ago there was hardly anything to find.  I have to add that I really love your videos, they're great!
I'm... left?  passionate about lot of social justice issues, and science-based medicine (anti quacks etc)  atheist  learning&practing  Street Epistemology (online mostly)  Using what I learned on REBt to put things into perspective. Can't say I'm always cool  (that'll make me not human*)  but I'm getting close...   *that Jordan Peterson guy is making my blood boil recently. If only English was my first language, I would even consider making a video about his "psychology"... Anyone aware about a video exposing him, pls share?  Awesome video as always 💜Contra
My favorite video you've created! If you want to make more, I wouldn't mind.
what was the mile davis song though?
So, if I understood the video correctly, vaporwave Karl Marx will defeat neoliberalism?
I was fool for following Abigail Cockbane. Taby is my master now.  I really enjoy to see you establish a unique style. Watching the evolution if your channel is nothing short of mesmerizing.  The Ice Cold argument is intriguing. But I wonder how this would look when applied. Isn't the dispassionate thing partially what HRC was trying to pull off? Also, would you say that the Charlottesville was met with such backlash partly because it showed the Alt Right losing its cool?
Can't stand that term- "praxis"  When you REALLY look at what it "describes", it's pretty simple, but the fact that a lot of leftists feel the need to USE SUCH A "CRYPTIC" WORD is really fucking obnoxious.  Just say, "Directly getting involved in Movement X or Y or punching Nazis", not "praxis", ffs  "Praxis" seems to imply something far more complex and mysterious than just... leftist direct action (more or less).  Funny enough, I think many militant leftists use the word "praxis" to sound or feel "smarter", but, to everyone else, they just come across as conceited know-it-alls.  And it's not just praxis but constantly using "dialectical" and other 'esoteric' terms very-few people outside a certain circle are familiar w/ or really give a shit about.  You're def. NOT gonna "win the information war" by constantly referencing all of this "academic" shit.    You have to win hearts and minds *on the ground w/ language that they can understand and are familiar with*.  I know that seems "too regular" for the bourgeois elites w/in 'militant leftism', but it must be done.  :)  Also... I think it's many of the white, middle-class (or higher) Marxists and left-anarchists who mainly do this overly-academic shit.  One could, interestingly, say that their "privileged disconnection from a harsh life" allows them to talk all day long about theory and various philosophers and use all kinds of fancy terminology, forgetting that lots of people *don't have time to waste reading a gazillion Marxist and anarchist books and have to, say, scrape to get by and *already know* how fucked-up the system is directly.  However, Marxists and anarchists from worse-off socioeconomic bgs who are in various marginalized groups who know *the full reality of growing up in shit conditions* don't have time for that "academic all the time" shit; they likely know how to "explain in layman's terms" what they're after politically.  They can relate in a way that a lot of these 'bourgeois', elitist, mainly-white Marxists and left-anarchists probably "can't."
Oh my god I'm fucking dying over the marx and engels book cover cus I watched your livestream making it, and the hours it took you to make that in comparison to how quickly and effortlessly you 'make' it here is amazing
The left has some really good marketable points - let's not fuck up the planet too much, let's treat people with dignity, let's help the poor, let's make life a little less shitty for working stiffs. This all seems like easily marketable things. And if you have a conversation about incremental aims - socialized medicine, better public schools, more taxes on the rich, cutting the military budget, etc. - there is a lot of agreement. These ideas can be marketed well and win elections. Heck, that's what brought the Liberal Party into power in Canada (even though they turned out to be mostly centrist shit bags).
Nice video but wtf is up with your voice?
should i feel bad for liking the tannhauser overture?
Shocked and upset to see Mao has regained his frame from Dark Mother.
bramds
But importing millions of people from third world countries is factually a bad idea no one benefits from it...
I was cracking up so hard at 6:18. This is fantastic.
Omg that was so great.
1:41 has made me quesiton my sexuality. YOU'RE SO CUUUUUUTEEEE
I thought I had lived, but now I realise that my life was incomplete until I heard a cat communist lisp her way through: "Marxth is a thoundathional thinker in the hiftory of.."  Brilliant as always Contra, kudos.
I love the style you choose for these videos. It's tongue in cheek enough that it really gets you thinking about which character is closer to how you act and how you actually believe, how the criticisms of the other character really apply, etc. I'm glad there's at least one person out there who isn't afraid to get hate from ALL sides of the liberal spectrum in pursuit of a bit of constructive analysis 😉
Tabby rules.
This is great!
Justine is way ahead of the curve.
Nice bewbs
Heheh, I'm a filthy liberal centrist myself and I love your stuff. It's always genuinely thought provoking and ofttimes makes me question my own principles. Not to mention the production values are dope af.
Your videos are some of the only things to make me laugh out loud anymore. "Actually, I'm an anarcho-syndicalist" XD How many times have I said that to someone...
love it (so far) - hello from (doomed) germany
Very well done....
Awesome video!!!!! tbh i needed to hear some of the things that justine told tabby
most of my stuff was made by Chinese slaves....go on...why change the subject?
why invoke the "marketplace" meme when talking about intellectual exchange? you need to read some Graeber.
you're outta sight! keep up the good fight!
I absolutely loved the video, and practically all your videos. I'd call myself a leftist, a progressive, and a social democrat. Up until this year, I would've called myself a far leftist until this year with Antifa, when I suddenly found myself labeled as a "liberal" (I actually still consider myself one. I tend to use liberal and progressive interchangeably, which probably annoys a lot of other leftists) and a "centrist" (Maybe I'd be Center-Left in Europe, but DEFINITELY NOT in America) due to my opposition to punching Nazis and Antifa violence (I feel uncomfortable saying "FUCK ANTIFA!" as I feel that there's more to Antifa than just the nazi punching and property destruction that people love to paint Antifa as and I don't want to misrepresent them, but fuck the ones who punch people and destroy property. Progressive Values 101: No Offensive Violence allowed) and the fact that I don't want to completely destroy Capitalism (I want Social Democracy. I want Universal Healthcare, Universal College, All the systemic ___ist systems destroyed, a New New Deal, and a Basic Income for when the robots take all of our jobs, but I still want businesses to exist. I still want to buy shit. I want Coca Cola, Disney, Tesla, etc to exist and make a profit. Just not own everything and buy all the politicians and run everything). I feel like this video sums up almost all the complaints I have with the left. Another excellent video, from a progressive Social Democrat fan.
Also Also, to the tabbys of the world: Don't tell me what I can start with, tell me what's good enough.
Also, this video for me brought back the magic I found when I first discovered you. Job well done.
Like many people have already mentioned, the left has a PR problem and a unity problem. Our internal problem lies in the way we fight among ourselves. The communists think the leftist capitalists are fascists and the leftist capitalists think that the communists are lunatics. This is not the only feud, but it is an important one. Imagine if both sides united? What's the worse that could happen? We would show that even though we disagree with the way a country's resources should be managed, we can unite for the greater good. The best that could happen is that we actually find the perfect answer that probably lies somewhere between communism and capitalism. Secondly we have our PR problem, and that will only be solved by making our own memes, by making our own cringe compilations, by having our own mascots, and by not smashing private property or random trump supporters. I know trump has fascist tendencies, but most of his supporters were just conned into voting for him. They found in him a different kind of politician and thought "what's the worse that could happen?"  Also, i have one little (huge) grievance with some of the left in my country (portugal) specifically: Some people keep defending "communist" and "socialist" regimes just because they call themselves communist or socialist. You guys, Kim jong un is a big baby with a grenade and maduro is a fascist cunt. Maduro may be a socialist, but socialism does not mean dictatorship. Kim jong un has control over the means of production in NK but that doesn't automatically mean he is a communist, because communism is supposed to be the opposite of tyranny, which is exactly what he is, a tyrant
Contra x herself for President, M.D.
So in a sense, I enjoyed this video less than I usually do (not to say that it wasn't great, it was), but I think from reading the comments that this is because this episode was meant to change the mind of AntiFa Leftists.  So more or less I just agreed with Justine, even though I think her position needs to be coupled with real activism (in terms of being involved in passing laws and campaigns for politicians sympathetic to your views).  I have no idea if this makes me a "centrist" or a "Leftist" under these arbitrary guidelines, but taking a step back:  Climate change is destroying our planet, economic inequality is reaching records levels, corporate control is effectively unanimous right now, and if we want to make a difference, it means we need to start setting realistic goals with realistic actions toward those goals.  And now.
From a Centrist point of view, this video fairly accurately represents how I feel. The Left has a growing problem of eccentricity, radicalization, and promotion of violence in the name of "the greater good", or "the right side of history". Regardless of the merit of the ideas there, it has the exact image problem it deserves. I felt like I was pushed from the left, when I was attacked by radicals on my own side. That is a fucking PR nightmare, and is further compounded when people on the opposing side are actually willing to sit down, exchange in civil discourse on programs like the Rubin Report, and talk about policies, differences, and similarities. Communism worked once, and there's actually a way to get these Socialistic ideals to work? That's great, talk to me about it, don't scream it at me and pepper spray the people that don't agree. The phrase "Liberals get the bullet too", is literally the reason why the Right is winning the culture war and why Trump got elected.
We must hang out in different corners of the internet, cause where I am, I feel like it's the leftists giving pragmatic advice on how to do politics to centrists who want to change nothing about their strategy... not that you're rally a centrist.
OH the gifs that can be made from this!  I just want to end all my facebook posts with tabby saying "until it was smashed by western imperialism"
Yay! Ahh, this was so good. 🙌🏻
What would the left really be without Contrapoints?
As someone who considers them-self alienated by both radical parties of the spectrum, and a firmly centrist sort of fellow, I found it very neat that someone who I would presume to be on the far left would take a cynical jab at their own group. Obviously, you are not a far left radical, but your points stick. My friend linked me your video after we discussed the weird, new political minefield of cultural appropriation - I'm not sure what relevance this video had to it, but I think it's made  me understand her a little bit better. I can't agree with everything you say (And I hope that doesn't put me in the group of colluding with the brownshirts), but your presentation and engineering of the dialogue was extremely well put together and written. Good work.
Now all we need is the Leftcom character who criticizes everyone.
this is good. never be afraid to give the finger to everyone on all sides and stick to loudly saying what is right and ridiculing the rest - which is i think what you are doing. ps. the hissing is cayute bbexoxoxo
I feel like some people interpreted the antifa message very differently from how I did. To me, it felt like Contra was saying that antifa's aesthetic of violence is a huge branding problem, but that what antifa does is often necessary, even the violence (which, attests Tabby, is usually a last resort after all the other nonviolent stuff that doesn't reach the media).
One criticism I have of the way The Left expresses it's ideas is that it's too jargonistic. For an idea to be able to reach broad base appeal it needs to be approachable to those who aren't already believers of the idea. It complicates learning an adopting the idea when there are so many new terms to learn.
I think there needs to be a distinction made between white leftists and leftists of color (is that even a term yet?) if we're going to work on the idea of rhetoric and PR. White people in America have a lot more power in the respectability game than PoC, who will be branded by the right as extremists no matter WHAT they do - witness Colin Kaepernick, whose form of protest is one of the most innocuous, non-violent actions you could take. And as a white person, (1) I feel as if it's my responsibility to try to use that power to mold narrative in constructive ways for the cause, and (2) I try not to judge the way PoC express their anger vs the way that white people do. (Similar things can be said with straight v gay and trans vs cis people, etc. - privileged allies should use their privilege for PR to help the marginalized)
"what you are matters less than what you seem to be" i honestly couldn't have said it better myself.
"I like stuff" I feel you. I feeeeel you.  Also, really good opening bit. You absolutely captured the seductive malice of fascist rhetoric.   "I'm just wearing it ironically." Yeah, that feels real. I actually tried that line on myself a few days ago and realized immediately how much it made me sound like a neonazi. Using communist iconography is fun, but I can see the danger of it.  Antifa: good argument and counterargument. The necessity of antifa and also the bad optics of it.  Overall, very good piece (this is coming from a leftist, btw).
"it's that sjws aren't cool" BJ Blazkowicz is the coolest sjw how dare you
But I like Wagner...
Loved the video, and I love and covet your wigs +_+ .  Great job!
reminds me a bit of a routine by a Jewish stand up comedian who got both beaten up by skinheads and the police. When he was being beaten up by the skinheads he hoped that some policemen might turn up to end it, but when he was being beaten up by the police he didn't hope that a bunch a of skinheads would turn up and end it.
Cool me daddy
read bor...ermmm...ok...but read something
Hehe you've coherently voiced what I've been feeling of late, right down to "what a goddamn lunatic, I'm still going to miss her" :D  And I lean left of center myself, didn't think you've "gone full antifa" - thought it was quite sensible. Not an American and my county has 3rd world problems, but the Indian left could sure learn something from this too!  Cheers Contra :)
I'm still going to orgasm to footage of Nazis getting punched, but I'll do it quietly in a cupboard where no one can see, because you have good points... about the stuff... with the things...
Yaas girl, yaaaaaaaaas!
You've managed to capture quite brilliantly here every type of leftist in at least one trait or more in the one character here - there were points where I was thinking 'god has she been looking at my twitter recently or something?', brilliant job there. It goes without saying that every issue you raised with the left was justified. At the end of the day, the one thing we do share with the far right is that we are both vilified populist movements, and the Fascists know how to deal with that fact much better than we do. As our ideas aren't, without prior indoctrination, disgusting, we never need to go the same extents of masking our true intentions like they do, but the historical fetishism as well as alienation from the average person needs to be a prime concern.   My one criticism honestly would be that while you pointed out everything wrong, it would had been great if you had gone into more specifics about how to go from there. Don't use the hammer and sickle, I agree, but are you saying we shouldn't use any symbols? That's a perfectly valid view point, btw, and one I myself may be inclined towards, but I'm just not sure what you think here - stuff like that is what I'd had like to seen expanded more, if you get what I mean.  Anyway, thanks so much for making this contra, it all needed to be said.
The funniest part is the sucdem flower on the jacket.
Centrists aren't cool.
This is amazing. It's a damning critique of the worst people on the left while still remaining respectful to it
My PC stopped working so I named it communism. ;)  Then I deleted all the porn, got it up and running again and I'm running everything in 60fps so I've had its name changed to Democratic Socialism.
While I'm "aware of optics" and think approaching people where they are is important, I don't like the wholesale dismissal of certain things here in the name of "optics". The hammer and sickle, for example, is a representation of urban and rural worker unity. The USSR put it on its flag, but it's not a USSR specific symbol any more than stars are American.  (Also the USSR massively reduced the incidence of famine conditions in its region. I avoid talking about this topic with "normies" but I think you can handle the truth, Contra: the Holodomor was a fascist propaganda spin on the last bad famine of the feudal era of Eastern Europe before it's modernisation, rather than a Communist failing or genocide attempt. Switching to Capitalism might have had similar results, except nobody else was investing in the Ukraine back then. Socialist policies saved the Ukrainian people.)
Ice Cold
Contra, as always you articulate a difficult to make point about how the left does not help itself and how it is possible to advance your cause without sacrificing its authenticity. I'm glad you exist, because I can just say "THIS! THIS IS WHAT I MEAN!!" instead of gurgling incoherently into the latest "problematic" comments section.
contra shows the left actually can make an argument.
Great fucking video you're the shit comrade!!!!!
Great Video as always ContraPoints. =D I fucking love u <3
Donald trump is not a fascist
Tannhauser Ouverture, Alban Berg. Amazing.
"If you have 30,000 people counter-protesting, you don't need violence."  This is me on so many levels. Why use violence when you can just show Nazis that they don't have the high ground in society? Just humiliate them and they'll go away. Violence makes them look like a victim.
I still think your video on how to identify a fascist was a little over exaggerated but I love most of your work. It's clearly you aren't a mindless ideologue who sees nothing but the end goal. I still consider myself anti-sjw but I am in full support of genuine social justice. You have been able to actually make reasonable cases for some of the lefts talking points and doing so have convinced of many of them.   Your point about the lefts optics is spot on and I've said many times getting rid of the hammer and sickle is a great start to shifting the perception. A lot of work to fixing the view is changing the overall reaction to offensive humor and media. The left used to praise people like George Carlin, Richard Prior, and Mel Brooks but as of late has turned against humor and media they deem too reprehensible. This attitude is leading people to find it uncool to be a leftist. Everyone wants to relax a little from the real world and laugh at something offensive. People look at you guys like the puritan religious right trying to censor media in the 80's and 90's.   Their attitudes pushed more people to the left in the 2000's and now those same principles are pushing back towards the right.   Thank you tho for a light in a sea of aggressive absurdity.
This was beautiful.
I agree, the left has a problem with outreach and image. The difficult problem with conversations about "optics" is that they often turn into conversations about advertising, PR, anything to put old ideas into prettier packages. But consumerism is fundamentally anti-anarchist; it's about trying to control mass opinion, and prettier book covers aren't going to benefit anyone but publishing companies, tbh. Anarchism is about learning to think for yourself, rather than just swallowing superstitious myths about the state, the market, gender, etc. I don't know how to "make" someone do that other than to show them reality. It feels like there's an inherent contradiction there: there's something funny about trying to "sell" the proles their freedom with the same techniques ruling elites use to foster complacency. I think the answer to the left's optics problem lies somewhere in that contradiction, I'm just not sure where to find it.
disliked cuz I am dumb and didn't realize till the 4 minute mark that this wasn't another decrypting the alt right video
Without a Sound by HOME is one of my favorite songs and so I had a momentary laps in concentration when it came up and had to rewatch 5:24 again to pay attention to what was actually being done.
Queer eye for the Marxist leninist!!!! Oh shit I almost died.
I'm starting to think that everyone in this video was actually the same person
I came here to have a good time and honestly im feeling so attacked right now... But really, joke aside, i have said and done several of the things the leftist in this video does. So uh, guilty as charged. >_> Thanks for holding a mirror up to the Left, Contra!
100, 000, 000, 000 points for the Wodehouse reference
Social justice, drugs and rock and roll :-D but why miss out the sex?
I think you really have a point here
Holy shit I thought I was the only one. This is very good.
5:29  S E I Z E  T H E   M E A N S
I believe it's pronounced "REEE!", not "hssss".
Trump proved you can win an election with absolutely no support from the mainstream media so that excuse will no longer pass for Leftists.
Fitting that you chose the Tannhauser Overture to play during the fascist's speech at the beginning 👍
All Cats Are Beautiful
MMMMMM I LIKE STUFF
Tabby is way too sexy. Difficult to concentrate on the dialogue. I'll have to watch again and try harder.  I wonder what your take on ethical socialism is Contrapoints?
Both characters are morons
Contra, if you read this I just want you to know that you single-handedly gave me the courage to admit to myself that I'm trans. I was in hell 6 months ago struggling to come to terms with this part of me and then I came across your video discussing what it means to be genderqueer. I lived my whole life up until now telling myself these feelings were just the result of some weird, perverted fetish and you set me free. Love the direction this channel is heading. You've got yourself a new patreon. Thank you.
I C E  C O L D  M O T H E R F U C K E R S
Great video!
I think this does a *really* good job (through satire and exaggeration) of pointing out some of the serious flaws in "mainstream" leftist rhetoric. Thanks for this.
WAIT SHE DOES END CREDIT SCENES? now I have to watch all her videos again :(
What's cooler than being cool? ICE COLD! Awright awright awright awright awright awright awright awright
"Defensive violence" justlol
Contra you make me weak at the knees
I love this.
If you are a communist, Marxist, or anarchists you are no better than a Nazi.  You both believe in collectivist, authoritarian, genocidal ideologies.
Justine or Tabby?
6:21   my favorite part
Fuck this got me, I love you contra and thanks for pointing out my flaws
11:25 if you've ever wondered why Sam Harris is famous
I'm an anarchist and think your criticism raises some valid points.
Why did you sacrifice your tower carelessly? It was your only powerful piece left 😰😰😰
never forget her marx livestream makeover
Eh I'm like politically around where anarcho syndicalists would be. Although for me efficiency is way more important than ideals. I want a government that ultimately leaves people to their own devices however will help people create their vision when they come up with something so they can then give back to the community that helped them prosper when they succeed, because I think it is the most efficient way of doing things. All it would take me to accept a libertarian system would be to show me the raw numbers of how much better it is than the way we are doing things now. Basically I want a good free system that works and I want it to constantly improve without a lot of suffering. I'm like super authoritarian about healthcare and education tho. Basically I say build a leftist system that isn't that isn't afraid to change even when that change may be scary like genetic engineering out all the bad genetic diseases, automating most jobs to the point that everyone has to be provided for by the state and calling out bad things that make some leftists uncomfortable (like sharia courts and etc). Its actually why I'm so attracted to anti-sjw channels. Problems are rarely addressed in meaningful ways since its all about ideals and despite there being problems in the application of those ideals, the left doesn't seem to even consider them. Tldr "Get a working first then improve on it and don't be taken in by bias. Actually improve the lives of the common man as well as improving wealth production and eventually we can automate into utopia."
5:36 - That looks like the result if Marx had released a Vaporwave album. :P
As an antifa supporting anarchist, I thought this video was BRILLIANT. FEED ME MOAR
Once again, Contra hits the nail on the head. The Pro-Left podcast touched on exactly this topic: "the left" needs to get better at telling stories.  Working on messaging for a couple hours can spare the need for batons.   If you're spouting jargon, you're failing.  You need delivery systems that can rival the crappy media apparatus and the right-wing echo chamber.
I agree with the notion that we need to be re-evaluating our tactics. In another movement, there was a guy who asked other activists whether they'd be willing to break the law for the cause. Many said yes. He then asked them if they'd be willing to go to jail for the cause. Many said yes. He then asked them if they'd wear a suit and tie for the cause, and was met with confusion. We need to be appealing to centrists, but I honestly don't know where the lines are drawn. Does a center even exist anymore?  The vitriolic rhetoric on the left frustrates me (I think the right and center are more guilty, but I'm currently more concerned about my corner), but I'm not sure if cooling down is going to help. We're at a point where saying "triggered jokes aren't funny" is seen as "getting triggered". This literally happened a few days ago. No matter how calmly we tried to explain it, they just kept calling us "triggered". And these are people on a fairly fringe social justice cause that gets bashed on constantly. I would've thought they'd understand that they're just perpetuating what's being done to them and those they want to help, but apparently not.  And then one of them made a joke about "laughing their gender neutral parts off", and another became defensive about gender issues. These people seem like robots, without any concept of intersectionality, and conditioned to meet any criticism with hostility without ever even considering the possibility that the critic might have a point.   Honestly, it's like talking with a creationist; their paradigm is sacrosanct. Hell, it's not like their heading is all that different; crony capitalism apologia, racism denialism, transphobia, misogyny, and the "freedom of speech" rhetoric isn't all that different from "teaching the controversy". They don't see it that way, of course, but they operate in such a black and white setting that the only alternative to their vision is the destruction of [Western] civilization. How do we have a dialogue with that? :/
I think the opening skit has it pretty spot on, but I don't agree that the left has to be cool.   The left needs to appeal to "common sense" economic and social issues. Look at where socialism has become popular: the Labour under Jeremy Corbyn, Spain's Podemos party, and Bernie Sanders.  You turn ordinary people off, not primarily when you talk about the Hegelian dialectic etc., but when you start demonising white people, ignoring problems of multiculturalism, and prioritising identity politics above economic inequality. Most ordinary, working class people are fundamentally "small c" conservative, and so if you want to gain any ground you're going to have to have some reverence for tradition, indigenous culture, and religion.
One of my favourite videos of yours to date. Food for thought, but washed down with plenty of hearty laughs. You just keep excelling, thank you. (I also love Justine's outfit - God, it's magnificent!).
Great Video again... but dare I ask, who the fuck are Bruce and Trixie?
Beautiful! Thank you for making these fantastic videos!
>tfw i am the caricature except without the furry part and i'm am a hardcore m-l tankie who defends the ussr, mao, and the dprk
Can I get a PNG of the reader cover?
Haha, offending 'centrists'.  'Centrists' are actually closeted right wingers who are very comfortable with the likes of Trump and Mayhem in power.  If Trump and Brexit haven't pushed you to the left, you're centre right at the very least.  I mean, that's ok. It's just odd that I haven't heard the words 'centre right' in about three or four years now.  It's like the centre right are in stealth mode or some shit.
this is well made.
"hello fellow whites". I am on the floor laughing right now
Tbh there aren't that many leftists on youtube I find interesting or entertaining, but I like this video a lot.
Some valid points, but mostly too stereotypcial. Too much Socrates. Try more Hegel ;)
I hate how people try to criticise the left and usually end up in (though popular) bullshit, but this video manages to be more on spot.  (except for stuff I still disagree with in my own right)
Err did you just describe me.
Yeah, this actually sums up some of my problems with today's socialism (including myself). Something something society of the spectacle, something something, "seeming is more important than being," something something.  On another level, I feel that creating new iconography is necessary for the movement to actually become what it wants to be. Looking into the past and appropriating its icons, while establishing a sense of history, also traps us in it. If we keep using the hammer and the sickle, whenever we do so we have to grapple with everything that comes with it. Come to think of it, what do people even mean by it?  If we divorce it from Soviet and Chinese imperialism, Stalin and Mao, what are we even left with? The vague notion of being communists?  still, i dig tabby's style. gotta reclaim it.
"It's possible to be angry and cool."  DING DING DING. Really important in getting people to see what shills the fascist acting dudes so far. Hbomberguy wasn't emotionally angry when taking down Davis Aurini, he mocked the ever loving shit out of him by using cool wit and dedicated research debunking his claims under a jester-like aura. That's how he succeeded.
I have a big problem with leftists who think that the only way to establish Socialism is through violent revolution. Whether they're MLM's, Trots, Anarchists, etc., a violent revolution is entirely infeasible. Back in 1930, sure, there weren't fighter jets, drones, tanks damn near impervious to anything except a Javelin missile, smart bombs, and fully automatic 40mm grenade launchers. In the time when violent revolutions happened, the revolutionaries were on relatively the same footing as the army, armaments wise. The Cuban army didn't have tanks or fighter-bombers (if they did, it was relatively few), the Francoists didn't have tanks or planes, tanks and planes weren't even that effective during the Russian civil war. When the military can sit in the comfort of their bases and drop missiles from drones so high up you can't see them, let alone hit them with a shoulder carry anti-aircraft weapon, your revolution is doomed without large numbers of people. We all saw what happened to the Iraqi military during the first Gulf War, they got fucking steam-rolled, an army that had been fighting the Iranians for years, destroyed in weeks by the United States. A violent revolution in the third-world, maybe that's not so far-fetched, but in the Imperial core, the "west", unless the military deserts their posts and comes to your aid, you are fucked. And hoping that the military will desert is a pipe dream. If we're going to win, it's going to be through electoral politics or a non-violent coup d'etat, such as when the Bolsheviks assumed power in the October Revolution, something only accomplishable via mass popular support  and massive strike action. Hearts and minds are extremely important, and you don't win hearts and minds by executing people without trial, however much they deserved it (looking at you Waltons).
All of this Being so (Which it is), How does one apply this to a British Perspective, and Become an Ice Cold Mother-crusher? (I don't do the cursing)
Great video. I agree that left looks just as stupid as alt-right. Maybe worse. Like, I am pro LGBT and minorities but I'm against ANY kind of violence. Well, I have some second thought about people wearing a swastika symbol on their arms but I still don't think I'd have the guts to punch them. I think I'm too much of a hippie and I think (hope) we can all work out our issues. Does this mean I'm a centralist? Also, I don't think this matters much but people seem to brag about it so here it is - this video made me sub your channel.
1. fuck marx and his bunk economics. embrace efficiency and cooperation instead of class struggle. the more decadent today's corporations are, the easier they are to outcompete. build organisations that don't want consumption or employment, but non-monopolized solutions. 2. embrace sincere libertarians and create effective public security organisations. defend against fascists, violent crime and later against state authorities themselves. not only by resistance but by demonstrating their primitive unproductive brutishness. the state is the supplier of violence and we need to dry out the demand. 3. a marketplace of ideas always exists, but marketplaces can be extremely inefficient. create intellectual environments that are driven by sincerity and curiosity and that can sort out junk by themselves. they should be global and resilient against state influence. 4. build artifical intelligences for the masses. our ultimate enemy is stupidity itself.
hmm, i dont know if tellin the (very small minority) vociferous leftists to reign it in is the answer.. Tabby would be right to say that the neoliberal grip on the world is so tight that asking politely to release it has not and will not work.  In fact it is so far gone that so called left wing parties and politicians have carried on doing the same as right wing ones under the cloak of more liberal social policy.  The Clintons & Obama were just as willing to murderise brown people in foreign lands as Bush was, Obama expanded the totalitarian state machine, surveillance and opposed free speech even more than Bush did.. if the left just pussyfoots around the issues, that is what we get.  And we shouldn't have to abandon the concept of a functioning communism just because it got a bad press thanks to a few megalomaniac fuckwits who distorted its purpose.  Not that i want communism, socialism will do fine, but it isn't right to give ground in a battle where the centre point has already swung waaaaay over to the right.
I completely agree with what you're saying, but the thing is "Antifa" is what you're saying here in pretty much every country in the world apart from America. Personally i've been involved in antifascist organisation for 5 years and i'd never had any negative press come to me personally until the Berkeley riots. Antifascist networks across Europe and South America have been institutions for almost a century, in America they are very new. The problem isn't with "Antifa" (Personally i don't like this term as much, because it has recently become associated with a mess of american teenagers who don't respect the roots of the movement), it's with American Antifa. There is a difference between "Antifa" and a Militant antifascist. One is in it for a sense of moral superiority with vaguely classist undertones, the other is in it to make a strong working class antifascist and anti-capitalist resistance that helps people through direct action in the community. THAT is what Antifascist action has been since 1936, and that's what it needs to be now more than ever.
I know a guy I used to talk to who reminds me of Tabby.
Is that the girl from DanganRonpa
A needed session.  Listen up and play to win, not play into some lifestylist jerk-fest.  I know plenty of radicals who got burned out and alienated by the factors discussed in the video.  These were allies, committed allies, who were driven away.  I saw that enough and I doubted the true seriousness of these radicals and was myself driven away from organizing.  Contrapoint, keep it up, you are needed in this capacity.
"In this world, Elwood, you must be oh so smart or oh so pleasant."from the movie Harvey
My favorite video from you
That cat is not an anrcho-syndicalist. I it take that is meant to be a dig at Chomsky, which is entirely undeserved.
Chairman Mao Zedong peering over the cat's shoulder the entire time lol.
The video is just too good. Now I feel slightly bad about not having become a patron before it. Also, Tabby is the new Abigail.
I feel like a lot of this could apply to the current mainstream vegan movement. We're getting better but there's still ideological idiots who don't understand why demonizing people won't get them to see the validity of your points. Thanks for the enlightening video.
Even if I don't agree with everything you say I really enjoy your videos. It's so refreshing to see this stuff adressed, to see commonly held arguments in the "Skeptic community" taken to task and the "sjw left" taken to task too on some of their awful behaviors.  The right should not be allowed to creep back into power completely just because the left has fucked up a few times, it's already started we need to actually use strategies that will be effective.
Great attention to detail in the beginning. Those hand movements and gestures were accurate as hell.
You are bar-none the best youtuber doing video-essays / dialogues on politics. The dialogue format works really well and this is perhaps your best one yet. The fact that I have to read your comments to find out where you really stand is a testament to the subtlety and craft of your videos. Truly thought provoking.
Loved the video.Just a little nitpick,2:30 it was an illegal move in chess :p
Another good video.  Unfortunately it may be the last one I will be able to see for awhile.
You should really direct films. The cinematography is great here.
Enjoyed the video, nicely done. I don't necessarily agree though. The left-right political division is old and useless. It's also destructive and has caused lot ot suffering. I think we need to move on. Perhaps the new division needs to be authoritarianism - non authoritarianism? For the post left-right future, we need to make some basic rules that the majority of people can stand behind. Capitalism is neither good or bad. Or maybe it's both of these things? But it's a fact that it puts food on the table for many, many people. Governments can't do that on a same scale.  So capitalism should stay, it just needs to be regulated and the profites should be more evenly distributed.  I hate large companies, when they grow too large they start to act like oppresive states and that's not good. There need to be some regulations how big a company can grow, in my opinion.  Moving into 21st century, we really need to start recognise our unique characteristics and individualities as one the most precious things about humanity. Stop thinking in terms of "groups". Tribalism is destructive and creates conflicts. Start thinking of people as unique individuals.  If a person is a victim of injustice, try to help that person.  Even the best systems in the world can hurt people on individual level.  Just some of my thoughts, written in haste and poor english (It's not my first or second language). I was actually born in a communist country and have lived for the last 20+ years in Scandinavia.
I first became interested in anarchism when the anarchism subreddit's banner was changed from a man throwing a bomb to a bed of roses.   Respectability politics is pretty important. We need to reframe the left as Bread and Roses.
I think what makes Contra so great is that she's very good at understanding the minds of the people she's trying to talk to. I feel like I can show her videos to people and those I show them to are generally impressed by her point and point-of-view.   So thanks Contra, for talking about this topic, it's pretty important and it's one the left has been struggling to have!
An issue that I've noticed for years now is that a lot of academic language has been leaked out into public discourse, where it's open to all manner of misinterpretation (eg: "The theory of evolution is ｊｕｓｔ　ａ　ｔｈｅｏｒｙ"). I lowkey cringe whenever I hear "cultural appropriation" in any context because it's a concept that's been so poorly communicated and many people who agree that it's a problem have no idea why. Like racism as institutional pressures is a concept that's been communicated fairly well so that even people who disagree that racism exists understand that racism can mean institutional racism, but I feel like this success isn't typical, especially since centrists and conservatives are so willing to misinterpret stuff. Basically I think it's important to have more human-readable documents available to the public with minimal jargon (that's also defined for them) and keep language like vampire catgirl's within closed circles.
I think ContraPoints represents exactly what went wrong with the left. Opportunism, revisionism, renouncing dialectical materialism, anti-soviet and anti-communist propaganda all contributed in the counter-revolution in the 90's and the retreat of the labour movement. This article from International Communist Review may help some of you understand my point: http://www.iccr.gr/en/news/Some-characteristics-of-opportunism-in-America/
What do you think centrists are? You didn't really accurately portray their problem with progressives, you just focused on remaining cool which is a tool.
Those  BOOK COVERSSSSSS
So what you learned from Sargon's  debate is that SJW's are not cool or don't have the right branding?  /sigh
I like this video a lot! It made me think and analyze my own and other's positions, and that's the most valuable thing. There's a weird line, and this video teases that line without ever crossing it, between tone policing (i.e. distracting from the topic at hand through critique of tone) and genuine criticism of how that tone affects people and how effective the argument is when presented that way. This is a very good and important discussion to have that usually ends up happening in the wrong place or at the wrong time, in the middle of some other point, but since this is framed as two liberals discussing the tones of their arguments, it bypasses concept of tone policing and gets right to the reasonable tone critique. This is most effective when talking to increasingly radical leftists like Tabby, of which I count myself among them, because the nature of the rhetoric can often do more harm than good, and I especially like the focus on the derision SJWs receive for being overly emotional, as well as the very true and reasonable counter that anger and emotions are the most natural and justified response to being discriminated against and disenfranchised. But in spite of that, it makes the larger and more uncomfortably true point that emotions and anger only work when you first have sympathy, or else they're just used to demonize you.  But it also lets you know the problems with tone can't really be solved using the complacent, subordinate position towards capitalism and authority Justine has, because those pretty but superfluous redesigns she comes up with to put a fun aesthetic pastiche over Marxist ideology are  just as "not cool" as anything she criticized Tabby for. Justine doesn't know what "cool" actually is either, and therefore is ultimately ineffective in a world where, oddly enough, due to our own history, both violent and nonviolent rebellion will always be considered "cool" compared to that kind of pastel complacency and deference to authority.  In simple terms - this seems almost like what I'd imagine a philosophical discussion between an Antifa extremist and Elizabeth Warren would be like, where I'm sitting here more like a Bernie Sanders - less willing to buy into that authoritarian hypocrisy in the system out of Warren, but wanting a political revolution that changes the system from the inside with the only violence being done as a matter of basic self-defense, not a willingly violent social revolution like what the most extreme Antifa leftists demand. Am I satisfied when a Nazi gets punched? Hell yeah, but that punch isn't going to help beyond just giving us that taste of satisfaction and bringing that one Nazi pain. Acknowledging the difference is HUGE if we want to succeed.
I officially have the biggest crush on contrapoints (and pretty much every characters she plays lol). Tmi but shes the closest thing to a 'man' that i would ever put my strap-on in lmao. HELP.
To the tune of this https://youtu.be/qGaoXAwl9kw  You will not be able to stay home Contra, You will not be able to plug in turn on and cop-out, You will not be able to lose yourself in drink, and grab a glass of wine during the 30 second preroll ad because, the revolution will not be televised   The revolution will not be televised, the revolution will not be brought to you by youtube and facebook with minimal commercial interruption, the revolution will not show you videos of Trump, blowing a bugle and leading a charge by Mitch Mcconnell, Paul Ryan and Steve Bannon to eat  hot dogs confiscated though civil forfeiture laws.  The revolution will not be televised, the revolution will not be brought to you by twitter, and will not star Kylie Jenner, Jon Tron or minions. The revolution will not give your mouth sex appeal. The revolution will not get rid of your cold. The revolution will not make you look five pounds thinner,  because the revolution will not be televised,  Contra.  There will be no pictures of you and Kat Blaque Pushing that shopping cart down the block on the dead run, Or trying to slide that color television into a stolen ambulance. NBC will not be able predict the winner at 8:32 Or report from 29 districts. The revolution will not be televised.  There will be no pictures of pigs shooting down Brothers in the instant replay. There will be no pictures of pigs shooting down Brothers in the instant replay. There will be no pictures of Black Lives Matter being Run out of Harlem in an uber with a brand new process. There will be no slow motion or still life of Patrisse Cullors strolling through Miami Gardens in a Red, Black and Green liberation jumpsuit that she had been saving For just the proper occasion.  Nashville, Real Housewives, and Big bang theory will no longer be so damned relevant,  and no one will care if what twitter war is going on now, because Black people Will be in the street looking for a brighter day. The revolution will not be televised.  The revolution will not be right back After a message about a white hurricane, white lightning, or white people. You will not have to worry about a dove in your Bedroom, a tiger in your tank, or the giant in your toilet bowl. The revolution will not go better with Coke. The revolution will not fight the germs that may cause bad breath. The revolution will put you in the driver's seat.  The revolution will not be televised, will not be televised, Will not be televised, will not be televised. The revolution will be no re-run Contra The revolution will be live.    (Just so you know this was a song originally by Gil Scott-Heron rather than Miles Davis, but he is also an ice cold motherfucker too.)
That was ...
I fucking love this video
Catty's black hair matches the blackness of your eyes and soul.
Well, this video just changed everything in me! Time to be ice cold!
So thoughtful :D <3
Am I watching the slow red pilling (awful term, I know) of Contrapoints? Come join with us in the middle and together we can beat the extremists on both the right and the left . 😊yay!
a superb editorial
I'm an ice cold motherfucker.
I enjoyed the the video, and agree with the point. Its especially important for the left to consider their optics because they have a harder task than centrists or conservatives. Leftist ask people to look beyond their own individual circle and to empathize with people others often dismiss as terrorist and criminals But I think there where a few points Contra missed that should have been elaborated in-the way pwnge culture will always exploit you at your weakness. You can be calm as a cucumber 99% of the time. But that one time you get angry at dealing with the vast oppression, or get frustrated and leave a snarky comment, that's what you go mainstream for. That's when Bearing, or Tucker Carlson or Laci goddamed Green decide to give you attention-it's not always necessary to have " the people" sympathetic to you to make a difference. The black civil rights movement wasn't widely liked until well after MLK died. Heck, I feel that BLM has been fairly successful about bringing police brutality back into mainstream discourse, even if fox news tries to distract from that. And as despicable as they are, the Tea Party achieved their goals of reclaiming the GOP
Cameroon Comrades....  Camerades?
Aside from Kazoo Kid this is one of the few videos that I've felt I'll probably need to keep coming back to before I can fully apreciate it.
I have one complaint.  Isn't this Justine's place? She has a plaque of Mao in her room. I'm worried Justine might be living a secret double life!
You really do have a good eye for design (book covers). ☺️
ThisThis is a good videoNice 👍
I've been trying to say this since Occupy, but obviously need to work on my messaging. Well fucking done. Well done indeed.
I liked this video.
So god damn funny.  I'm loving these videos Contra!
Lol, love you Contra.   Signed,  A Dirty Centrist
Love the Mao Zedong photo.
A ContraPoints video makes me feel like I'm playing a dating sim where the dialogue puzzles are REALLY politically intricate.
This is a fictional dialogue between characters created for philosophical and artistic purposes. I do not necessarily endorse the viewpoints of any of the characters involved.  How is that for fence sitting.. lol
I can't believe there's officially a Contraverse timeline now. Time to start theorizing! Headcanon: Fritz and "Trumpy the Transvestite" actually know each other from before Fritz became radicalized.
Thank you for this, Contra darling.
your content touches me intellectually and emotionally in a way no other content on the internet really does
So its come to this I'm shipping characters in leftist youtube
facist uniform didn't look facist, just looks like a greaser jacket and black corset with a grey cap thing.... :(
You can really tell contrapoints was a philosophy student, the way she designs these videos is brilliant. Instead of going out and just saying what she thinks, she performs a sort of socratic dialog between multiple conflicting inner viewpoints. The result is that all sides of the argument are presented in a balanced way, and you can't say you agree or disagree with what contrapoints says; you can only guess. You have to decide for yourself what the message of the video is, and that to me is part of the brilliance of these videos.
Great video Contra, as always. I think the character of the leftist should be called communist. I'm a leftist morally and especially economically and I don't feel that Tabby is a representation of the non extremist left. After seeing your video I feel amused, intellectually stimulated and like a dirty centrist.
You've made me feel uncomfortable (I find my views very close to Tabby), and I love that you have. Honestly, a lot of the critiques brought forward are valid, and I need to do a lot of thinking right about now.
WOW, can I mirror upload this? This is great, I'll give you credit off course.
Lmao so was I fooled or was there actually communism in eastern cameroon? Cuz youtube and Google were useless in finding any type of information on it
Where are people coming from
What I want is for centrists to watch this video and be compelled by their philosophy to decide that the truth is somewhere in the middle between Tabby and Justine. Then they all become some kind of leftist.
I think I've finally realized what you remind me of: You're essentially Lady Gaga if she had decided to become a theatrical SJW YouTuber instead of a pop star.
I have an idea for a cool catch phrase or whatever.  "For while the warrior may tolerate his own suffering in silence, he will never abide the suffering of the innocent."
Contrapoints dresses as a woman "as a joke" - later comes out as Genderqueer  Contrapoints dresses as a nazi "as a joke" - later (?)  🤔
This was so good
I love these two sides videos that you do. Not only do they have that fringe benefit (maybe not for you) of not alienating your audience. They also do a great deal of work in forcing the viewer to take a very even approach in choosing what makes sense to them and what they disagree with. The idea that both characters are flawed is an obvious choice, but also an extremely effective one.
Ok so I haven't watched the video properly yet and I'm sure it's great but I gotta get this off my chest.   I wanna fuck Tabby
Always good.. and always makes me think about my politics more in-depth...
Lol, that was very interesting and I agree your points
You mean SUBLATION (aufheben) not "sublimation" you idiot!  Rek't leftist destroyed!!!! 👌👌👌
I ship the furry and the bougie
Contra, you continue to fail to promote your point by making the "Nazi" the most realistic, likeable and relatable character.  PS I am not a NAZI
Wut? There hasn't been a communist state in French Cameroon in 1910-1912
i think a weakness in these vedios is the lack of humanised moderate characters. that areint parodys
So there's a lot to unpack here... I mean yeah I've met leftists like this too. And I agree that we need the centrists (as evidenced by revolutionary history; if you don't have the centrists on your side, things don't tend to end well) so yes they need to be convinced. On the other hand I think there's also value in defending extreme measures. For example, breaking shop windows can terrify centrists and backfire, but on the other hand it can be a good idea to talk to them about it and make them question why broken shop windows scare them so much.   I mean giving in to the pressure to be respectable is actually also a problem the left has had. The left in the US especially (but also elsewhere) has been kind of a bunch of pushovers for a while now. Sometimes you do need to push your own narrative rather than to compromise. The tricky part is to figure out when is the time for which strategy. (Of course that's where studying history is a good idea.) But I think right now seems like a good moment to push a bit. I mean people are starting to realise that Nazis are still a thing and kind of a terrifying thing. President Trump is a reality now. Faith in the capitalist system is the lowest it's been for decades. I can't think of a more approproate moment in my entire lifetime for leftists to be assertive.  And I mean yes, if you can keep cool while you're angry, that helps. That's true. I haven't quite figured out how to do that yet though, and it's not an easy thing to do. It's an unfair standard to place on people. I would defend emotional outburst rather than tell people that it's not useful. I mean it might not convince YouTube shitlords or other arrogant bastards but it might still affect some people who are more sympathetic to people's distress.  I'm with you 100% on the obscure philosophy nonsense and horrible unintelligible jargon point though. Also frankly I still think the best tactics would be community building, raising class consciousness and encouraging activism (while being careful about the S and C words and especially the A word. Unless they come up in conversation of course.) Political arguments are important too but they only really matter for people who are already politically conscious. They shouldn't be the first priority.
Those paw gloves are friggin' adorable, tbh.
Kulaks deserved worse. It pisses me off so much that first world classcucks have to digest communism so slowly due to redscare propaganda. Then it pisses me off even more when the same happens with third world classcucks. Fuck. Being this pragmatic annoys the shit out of me. That said, your catgirl costume is fabulous s2
Couldn't agree more with rebranding radical left wing politics. I'm not going to say we should give socialism/Communism a new label like what the alt right did, I'm just saying we need to focus on how we can get people to at least understand. Rewrite the works of Marx and Kropotkin in a more modern way of writing, start with the basics of leftism when talking about it instead of quoting Guy DeBourd, make it known when you do something outside of black blocs. Trust me, I'm not always the most patient with liberals, but it's possible. I was a liberal, I'm sure a lot of you guys weren't leftists before, so it's possible.
I'd buy that cover for my Marx essays.
Contra you are still not getting it. The left isnt winning not because they dont seem cool in the public eye. In fact, they seem very cool. And when you say the media isnt behind you all thats nonsence.  But they arent winning because they appear to be attacking the very foundation of amerian values. Thats why they arent winning. They burn freedom of speech signs, attack people who support freedom of speech, freedom of association and our bill of rights are under assault by the left. They even attack american patriots waving flags. that wont win you anything. Thats why you are losing. You just dont get it. We have freedom of speech, and everyone has rights. Even fascists waving nazi flags, talking about disgusting things and racism. They have their rights to do that. It isnt a criminal act. In america, even westboro babtist chruch can win a lawsuit to protest and hold an anti gay rally at a gay mans funeral. Thats allowed. You can be a horrible deplorable asshole and win. Thats america. You can hold a counter protest, but you cant assault them. Thats a criminal act. And thats why the left is now looking a lot more threatening than the right.  But in the eyes of most centrists, youre both an equal threat to our freedom. But if we are forced to choose, we will chose the side waving american flag and talking about patriot values and the constitution, not the ones burning it
How do you become Miles Davis anyway? What simplistic style could the left adopt? Should leftists listen to more jazz? Is the red and gold, too old? Should antifascists do more for community work? Is wearing black and a balaclava, too scary? Maybe the left does need more style, less somberness.  Love this video, a great deal of thinking here.
The furry ... is good?
You are right, there is a need to a cool Left
I consider myself pretty darn capitalist and I fricking LOVE Soviet memes.
god bless ya contra
Wow just wow, you see the problem of the left. We need to change a bit. We need to show we are the good people
Good vid. A case in point was when people started claiming a tweet from the ACLU was raceist. This helped no one's cause.  It only served to help the alt right in the end.
believable.
So are the captions for Tabby's little intro speech right? I want that entire quote so bad, from Hegel to HAIL SATAN.
This video is fucking hilarious. And it is really great.   But...antifa without the communism and edgy violence brought on by nothing but angst?   That would be like the NHL giving up hockey sticks and ice.
god the optics thing always bothered me, im leftist but i cant stand college "communists", which are mostly white, middle class people who never had big financial problems an have no idea what they are talking about or representing with the scythe and hammer pin.... like, people died my dudes, lots of them
Thank you so much for this video.
"liberals get the bullet too" refers to the fact that the fascist will shoot liberals when they win.  Sorry Contra, but you are woefully bad at characterizing the far left. You are a liberal. That's fine. But shut up about them.
I know the critique about fetishizing commodities... BUT I WANT THAT WIG! =o!
*Deep breath* .... *sigh* well, I guess I found out I have another fetish.
These are exactly some of the points I was hoping you would address after your "decrypting fascism" video. Well done.
this video kinda cheers me up. it's election day in germany: the left (Die Linke) got about 9% i voted for the marxist-leninist party (MLPD).. under 5%
I love these dialogue videos. This was an absolute banger
*"Free Market Place of Ideas™"*
'Huey's law' you have to have specticle and an idea that people can get behind in order to make people give a shit. So you know, maybe rather then getting needlessly defensive or agressive when someone ask a question or has a problem with the way leftists operate maybe they should actually reply like a human talking to a human rather then something they've just found on the bottom of their shoe. This is a generalisation, but the unplesentness always gets me it's gross.   it's the same with the vapid void of empathy that is the right too, like wtf half the horrible shit they put about minorities makes me want to throw myself off a bridge. to quote cockbane 'ew'.
Good video, and I mostly agree with you. You didn't raise it in your video, but ideologies do not create a revolution. Communism, as defined by Marx, is an objective class movement, where the working class seek to liberate themselves from their oppressors. During revolutionary times, ideology has not been the driving factor of the working class, it has instead been driven by the desire for freedom. The left has unfortunately been plagued by idealists who romanticise violence and controversial regimes. It is possible to hold the views of Justine whilst still seeking the end goal as Tabby. Personally, I'm not fully convinced that dressing in black to intimidate and use violence if necessary to keep nazis of our streets (It is really not to be negotiated if we are to allow white supremacy and other forms of xenophobia and violence), romanticising it is unnecessary and rather counter-productive. I just really have one argument against you in this video - being that a revolution is not built on convincing people that "socialism is better than capitalism", the masses are made revolutionary through their material conditions in society. The natural contradictions of capitalism will bring its own demise.  Your videos are just what we need. They challenge our ideas and can make us uncomfortable watching them, but you hold us and with well thought out arguments and you are able to accurately represent your opponents ideas and values. This is the pinnacle of debate, thank you so much for the videos. <3
When are we getting a full movie directed and acted by the great Contra?
i would, without hesitation, buy a book with that cover holy shit
Contra go on Chapo
This is so sharp. You're incredible at acting out these dialogue scenes as well. I believed that two people were talking to each other the entire video, and that's difficult to pull off. :)
This video is difficult. Your frequent use of dialogue as a framing device, though dialectical af, makes it hard for such videos to make a single clear point. This is the point of course, the feeling it generates is frustration, and this can get one to think.   However, this one I found particularly difficult, since one of the characters felt closer to the intended viewpoint and so came across as preachy, especially since their smugness was built in as a character flaw.   While I agree with your criticism of the left's obtuseness and sectarianism, I think you overestimate their ineffectiveness or their unpopularity, since a lot of concrete leftist policies can be and have historically been popular. Socialising resources and democratic workplaces, these are not that hard to promote, and can at worst be called 'utopian'.   Lastly, the idea that the left needs better optics comes across as somewhat cynical to me. Actions don't literally speak for themselves, and yes this means that good publicity is important too. But still, if one sincerely believes that the left's cause is in the interest of 'the people', one should also at least somewhat believe that 'the people' can come to joing the cause of their own volition, without having to make it look cool.   In conclusion, I think fighting bad  representations of the left is more important than creating a cool version of it. In fact I think sincerity is more important than coolness. Maybe you can be both, but I don't see the point. I don't want people to be leftist solely because they find it cool. I want to see them join the left because they're motivated by love.
ok that's it u get the bullet too
this kinda cruel joke to upload this video today – day of elections in Germany. And we (me, my filterbubble and I) are all deeply embarassed about the AFD, new right wing party, winning loads of seats in the Bundestag. But the video is awesome! As always. Fangirlgreetings from over the puddle. :)
I think a lot of ProFa members are simply psychopaths.
Excellent video Contra! It goes very well with your previous video about how well fascists can blend in, disguise themselves, and seem attractive to the layman. Left-wing groups desperately need to match that level of adaptability and concern for presentation if they're to compete in this here "free" marketplace of ideas.
Do you realise that the very style you use for your videos is exactly what you criticise ?
I think there is a lot to be said about how much leftist discussion is filled with academic jargon to the point where it is completely inaccessible to the average person.  Also, when oppressed people are disenfranchised, they will obviously be upset by the systems that keep them oppressed.  This anger is often misunderstood, and people tend react badly to raw emotion of opposing viewpoints. Sucks that many centrists fail to see this.  Somewhat related: I know what brunch this is referring to xD Also I was there for the stream when you were making the graphics!! :) Great job, Contrapoints <3
Uphold Marxism-Lenininism-vaporwaveism
This was mostly an excellent video. I will say that (and maybe I'm ignorant on the majority reason for disposing SJW's) my issues with social justice don't spawn from being "uncool" but more from dishonest tactics and contradictions. You won't see me anywhere near the alt-right for the same reasons. Believe me, I'm far from cool when arguing my positions, so I understand misplaced, passionate outbursts. I just need a coherent set of ethical standards, which I find both of these groups lacking in.
contra can you do "main kampf" look more american? And far rights dont afraid left, lefts is afraid nazi, becose leftists is just wimpy skiny pseudo intetectuals, and far right is like hooligans, they are tough guys.
Tabby bestgirl
You know what I dislike about you contra points? The fact that you assume people who don't think like you are stupid. And sure, we are.  But so are you.
Am I the only one who thinks this whole channel is just an excuse for Contra to wear costumes?
5:56 - 6:07 hahahahahaha!! I love this!!
I love this! I just wish it was understood that the word "antifa" itself is not the name of an organization. It's just a word that means anti-fascist. There are many antifa groups and individuals that are now collectively perceived as one big terrorist organization. This is making it difficult to oppose fascism without being perceived as a violent nuisance. I oppose fascism. But I do not belong to a group, nor do I act violently in my opposition. I would think that merely opposing fascism would mean that I am objectively antifa, whether I claim the word or not. However, that doesn't fit the popular narrative that "Antifa" is just a terrorist organization. It's a convoluted mess that's hard to discuss in a straightforward manner at this point.
This is the best one yet.
ContraPoints, go on Chapo!
Saying that nothing but starvation and suffering came from socialism is completely disingenuous and not something I expected from this channel to be honest. The Chinese led 800 million out of poverty, massive advancements in women's rights and led the way to the country becoming a superpower from a peasant nation, Russia had an 82% illiteracy rate before the revolution, millions taken out of poverty, first country to mandate universal healthcare, 70% of Russians voted to stay in the USSR during referendum, after dissolved life expectancy dropped by ten years. Cuba has led major advancements in healthcare innovation and has completely abolished illiteracy and has a lower infant mortality rate than the U.S and I could keep going..there's a reason that third world national liberation movements ascribe to the concept of socialism/communism and for some white first worlder to castigate them on that is completely egregious specially coming from a privileged position such as hers. Whatever issues you may have with the organizing tactics of first world leftists, to completely write off socialism and communism as a plight of human suffering is absolute bullshit and intellectually dishonest
sambady say cabal quick get zavala
Leftbook needs to see this.
"Social Justice, Drugs, and Rock & Roll."  I can do you one better, Contra.  "SOCIAL JUSTICE, PORN AND VIDEO GAMES."  It's basically the same thing, only now we're amending perceived past mistakes and getting the internet back on our fucking side.
... I have said... "Actually, I am an anarcho-syndacalist...".... I have never before now truly felt the full weight of "I feel so called out right now."  I feel so called out right now.  And I love it.  Natalie, improve my rhetoric!!
Yup, nailed it.
My take: everyone on the left who's just talking (*cough* academia *cough*) needs to start DOING. Not holding rallies, or signing petitions, actually doing real things. We need to drop the classist jargon for sure, but I take issue with this video's insinuation that we can win hearts and minds by winning the image war. Fascism is alluring and sexy by design, and accepting their ideas requires much less mental discomfort (because they don't really want to change all that much, structurally). Waging war over image is just playing their game.  Our advantage is that we've actually correctly diagnosed the problems in the world and know how to fix them. If we start DOING that, there's no way they can match us. Things like creating workplace autonomy through radical unions, or building mutual aid networks. We will win hearts and minds by creating example after example of how direct action based on real working class solidarity actually makes the world a better place.
I had the misfortune of taking a gulp of water right before "mimosas".
Orrrrrrr. Bring warmth back? A lot of the strongest victories the left had we're when they had people with their humanity on display. You're on point about how pure reason is not an effective method for attracting people, but cool is not enough. Warmth would be nice, I think.  Also, the obsession with being cool and counter culture are part of how we landed on this mess. Leaving ideology aside, most people actually tend to favor leftist positions. That was always part of their appeal. This cliquey only for us attitude is kind of off putting. Appeal to people as people I say. Then again, who am I to say?
Oh no! Not Brucie and Trixie!T-T Too good for this world....
I have never seen such an on point depiction on my thoughts on the left, even though it kinda felt like a fever dream caused by watching youtube politics and anime before going to bed. I really like your content, Contra.
As someone who considers himself more right than left of center, these videos are great and really well-argued.
the dialectic in action!
Why do we need to rebrand trans antifa cats? If you're a communist that only enters the public eye to fight Nazis, I think your image is pretty hopelessly.   Also, who wants communism? I can get behind about 30% of social justice ideas so rebranding sounds fine there, but communists are not my allies
You killed off Bruce and Trixie (Is that how it's spelled? Whatever.) ? These characters are more entertaining and endearing, but with Bruce and Trixie the argument felt a bit more grounded. Then again the style has changed since then. Oh well, I'm not sad or mad, I'm always happy to see more from you!
Contra how dare you doxx me
This was a brilliant video. One of my favorites so far. I have to admit, though I can often sympathize with the baseball bat strategy, you are correct that the common perception of the left leaves something to be desired. Nice work.
loved it! great job as always contra !
"Why do Centrists hate Social Justice Warriors so much? Not because they don't have good ideas. It's because they aren't cool!" Suuuuuuuuuure girl. Let's go with that. "I'm sure there are good people" *shows Aids Skrillex and Big Red* Bad... choice of people.   You manage to make videos that start off great but turn more and more into dumpster fires as they run on. Impressive.
Contra with cat ears and fangs........daaàaaaaaaàæaaaãaaaaaamn. Also. Good points. Keep up the good work!
[OK so LONG ASS ATTEMPT AT A SYMPATHETIC VAGUELY MARXIST CRITIQUE OF THIS RATHER COOL VIDEO (READ AT YOUR OWN RISK)] So i have read your pinned comment too and i get what you mean : fascist propaganda is effective because it's simple, "bad ass" and based on prejudices (mostly white) people have and it adapts to the latest cultural fashion, while leftist propaganda does not often do that (or when it does, it is actually centre-left politics IMO). Not only does the left needs to become "cooler" as you put it, but i would add it needs to move beyond soviet posters. Not that i am against, I think they are rather stylish and have nice colors sometimes, but I have noticed (at least online) is that the people who share it are *already* convinced by the necessity of a revolution. It does not touch the heart of your average person.   In the other hand, i think there is a reason WHY these symbols are so important. They represent the height of a struggle in the past, and the desire to reach the same result in the future : a world free of fascism, capitalism and imperialism, where everyone's needs are met. So i don't think the left should give up on the hammer and sickle and the like, but rather : -reappropriate them (in the like of "laborwave stuff")  -most importantly : EXPLAIN THEM. most people have a nasty view of communism because of capitalist propaganda. i'm not saying it's easy to open your eyes to the reality of capitalism, but i think an *organized* working class (call me old fashioned, but the centralized party that is still able to criticize itself and learn form its mistakes (maoist style) is still the best way to achieve this) could have the power to grow its support base by printing GOOD leftist newspapers (both online and offline)  and also teaching its supporters to NOT BEHAVE LIKE PRICKS online (because indeed, the aesthetics of your average SJW is 30% queer (loving that as a bi girl) but also 30% "i'm right because i'm oppressed" and 40% CRINGE.).  -adapt them to what people will relate to. Lenin and Marx were great, we need to read their books, but people of color might be more touched by the Black Panther Party or Francis Fanon. LGBT+ folks might care too if you mention radical queer groups who tried to bring together marxism and LGBT struggles. same if we mention everything that was achieved for women under socialism (and is still being done is zones of India that are controlled by the red guerrilla as i write)   It would also make street level antifascism more effective because a) people would understand the necessity of punching nazis and b) an organized party would prevent the white working class from falling for fascist rethoric by providing them the militant and theorical tools they need. Many communists would agree that street level antifascism is necessary in the sense that it is the chemo against the cancer of fascism, but as always, prevention is key.    All of this would be a lot more effective than memes than non-leftists either don't get or are afraid of. Memes can be good propaganda but you need a political and artistic subtlety that a lot of online activist lack. you can actually see that, weirdly enough on... reddit. WELL not /pol obviously, but r/communism101, even though it has its problems, is one of the few places on the internet where people who are curious about communism and other left-wing ideologies without (yet) 100% agreeing with it can get an answer without getting straight-up capitalist propaganda  or getting scolded by pretentious assholes. you also have a few folks like Usul, a French youtuber who makes leftist content that is relatable because it tackles contemporary issues while also using older ideological toolkits (like materialistic analysis)   which brings me to the probem of the semi-public nature of the internet : leftists share content between themselves than makes sense to them, but someone who stumbles upon it while lacking the "rich points" so to speak might be bewildered. that's why i have a tough love relationships to red twitter / tumblr / tumblr : you can get interesting facts and debates, but i don't like most of the content because it is, once again, made for people who are already part of the community! it indeed turns communism into a subculture, which is the opposite of what it is supposed to be! anyways if you are interested, Red Guards Austin made a piece that talks about this called " On identity opportunism". seriously i wish every pseudo SJW who is on socialist twitter for the likes would read it.   If you have read until here, thanks !  PS : English is not my mother tongue, i hope I didn't make too many grammar mistakes.
I'm an anti-racist living in a white neighborhood, I'm a communist living in a capitalist society, I'm a revolutionary living in the time of peace, I'm a hypocrite.
*Fangirl Scream*
I think the problem with antifa is not the use of violence itself, it's the current use of it. Fascists aren't a genuine political force currently - they genuinely don't pose any more of a threat than "radical Islamists". They could, and we should be aware of it, but now is not the time for violence. As Contra points out, now is the time for optics. Now is the time to make clear how dangerous nationalism is. Now is the time to make progressive ideals look cohesive, peaceful, and attainable within the American ethos.  However, I doubt anyone would disagree that at some point, law and order is a silly idea when the law mandates your ethnic identity be supressed. Violence then is the only answer.
This is such high production value with such well thought out and nuanced views. Contra, you're one of the very few people that make me think, rather than spitting opinion. Self critic into your own beliefs truly drives important conversations. One day these videos will be 100k+ views each, they deserve it.
Dream team is you debating with Dark mother tbh in a video about some of these things.
Well if you're going to strawman you might as well do it to everyone and make a comedy out of it. A good video that everyone from Mao Zedong to Adolf Hitler can enjoy.
.... I ship them
I'm pretty sick of leftists sharing authoritarian socialist memes too.   To outsiders it must give off the impression that we're a bunch of complete fucking nutters.
"Hello fellow whites." deadass
Really good points, but I think it's also important to highlight that one of the reasons leftism has a branding problem is because the unavoidable leftist infighting over basically everything: ideals, goals, strategies, etc. If there is no unified left, there can be no unified leftist message with which to invite people to join the movement. I'm not the first to point this out (obviously) but I still haven't seen anyone propose a reasonable solution to this problem.
R.I.P. Bruce and Trixie <3 May you be resurrected by the power of the darkmother... u_u  Also now I feel the need to ship Tabby with other points...maybe the steampunk-doc xD
Ａ　ＣＡＴ　ＩＳ　ＦＩＮＥ　ＴＯＯ
Who knew all I needed was a trans antifa catgirl hitting on herself in order to start untangling all my confused and vague angst towards aspects of the far left. Why are you so good?
Nailed it!
When you watch the fascist part a bunch of times and start to worry.
That was such a good video. I will say though that the only disagreement I have is that these conversations are primarily, if not exclusively, being had online so regardless of how aloof you enter them in defence of yourself or marginalised groups upset and anger (or being "triggered" 🙄) is almost always projected on you anyway (especially true if you're a person of colour or a trans person or a woman). Even when you inject humour into your comments it's either read as hostile, condescending, or taking as entirely serious.  There is certainly a percentage of leftists who overwhelm whoever they're talking to with academic terms and refuse to accept anything short of a violent revolution. I find myself being the latter more often that I wish, usually in my more hopeless moments. That said, I would guess that most leftist still participate in elections even when there are no good options, still work to the extent that they can within the  system to push socialist ideals.  In fact, I would say that the most effective leftist (in regards to motivating and uniting groups) recently in the UK has been Jeremy Corbyn. Even my mum who is by all accounts apolitical at best has found herself rallying against Capitalism and Imperialism.
Do you plan on sticking to short films now?
The freedom report lmfao
I think this is by far your funniest video so far
It is funny because I am all punch the Nazis but I do regularly argue with other fellow leftists about the whole communism thing.
To become ice cold motherfuckers like Miles Davis is the greatest advice you could possibly give the left, I'm so into this conclusion
I have a copy of the Marx-Engel reader too.  For making this video, I have instructed Madame Defarge to start knitting your name Contra.
Tabby hits /way/ too close to home, I know I've been her, I know I've hissed at people. Thank you for showing the extremes, but in a way that is painfully realatable...
The left needs Rorty, not Zizek
I think my only issue with this video is it seems to have all these criticisms with...no real clarity to the problem of leftist optics.  The main takeaway is obviously leftists should care more about optics, but it says nothing on how to actually IMPROVE those optics, except in a joke about Miles Davis.  I suppose since this is a philosophical/artistic video, there's not supposed to be any real answer (or at least that the answer is complex and not straightforward), but it's clear the main purpose of this was to critique the left, and the entire time watching this, it felt you yourself were unclear where your point of critique actually stands...which lends itself to the question of "why make the video in the first place."  If Justine really is a stand-in for you, and if all she has to offer to this is derisive nitpicking with no real solutions OR sympathy to the cause except when it's convenient for her...then why are you talking?  I don't mean to be rude when I say this, by the way.  I do actually agree with you on all the facets leftists should be criticized on.  I just don't think this video did any sort of justice to those criticisms in the slightest.  Good critique should come from a place of clarity and purpose, but watching this makes me think you yourself don't really know what bothers you about leftist strategy, or even why you feel it's viewed poorly.
Thanks, CP! Berkeley, California sends you a nod. Today, we can be ICE COLD!
With all this in mind, you should really bite the bullet, buy a pants suit, and do a vid on neoliberalism. Curious to see what your take on that would be.
We need more allies not more enemies
The left today has lost empathy for the average person in the street, and is more concerned with ideological one-up-man-ship, and demonizing anyone that doesn't 1000% toe the orthodox 'social justice' line, than it is with practical political goals, or with building broad support. And an eternally outraged ideology, where *every* mis-step is a deal-breaker is a really shitty sales pitch.   We're afraid to acknowledge the massive, unprecedented progress we're made in terms of racial, gender, LGBT equality, and public attitudes to that stuff, within the last few decades, for fear of forfeiting the right to call people racist, or misogynist, or bigots, when they say something we don't like. But ironically (and I'm very aware people hate hearing it, but it's fucking true- or at the very least it's a significant contributing factor) by constantly calling people "bigots" and "racists" for petty shit, we're pushing them into the arms of *actual* racists and bigots.   But this shit is old news. "Cult of outrage" and all that. The left doesn't *want* to change, and it doesn't *want* to appeal to a wide support base- at least not more than it wants the approval of existing leftists; the back-patting we get from preaching to the choir is more important to us than getting support from the average person in the street (who's probably an evil racist misogynist *anyway*, so fuck em; why would we *want* their vote). So we keep chasing a bunch of unattainable abstractions, and going on about how "oppressed" everyone is in objectively the most equal era in history.   Seriously, I'd like to be more hopeful, but shit is a fucking mess, and the worse it gets, the harder people dig in to the mentality that got us here.
This is dank. I wish I was more like Tabby, and the left as a whole could use a bit of Justine.
I don't quite agree with you here, Contra. I feel you are oversympathizing with Trimp-supporters (I call Trump 'Trimp'), which is something I've seen Noam Chomsky do too. I don't think the left has really done anything wrong here (at least not as far as their rhetoric goes), and there's no way we can change our rhetoric to appease racists, since what they want is not more accessible or sympathetic rhetoric, but something that feeds their hatred and their egoism. Many Americans are racist, misogynist, etc., and hate the left because we oppose what they are invested in. One cannot be friends with everyone and I think we should accept that and continue to live by our principles.
5:35 the penguin classics Great Ideas edition of the manifesto id white with a bit of red so like idk thats an improvement aesthetically i guess?
I say this every video, but excellent work. Truly top notch stuff. Laughed out loud at the matrix music bit.
Tabby, marry me please! ;_;
Did you just get rejected by a furry contra
saying that we have to engage in a propaganda war to gain the support of the tone deaf centrist is a pretty big bullshit and a failed battle, after all, we actually care about people  being right, being decent and caring about other is not aesthetically "cool", we have to work for it, we do what we do because we must, not because we find it "cool". unlike the kekistans who are in this for shits and giggles  not caring is 1000% more empowering and satisfying, it is the easy route, that is why this fuckers never truly die   also, ice cold motherfucker that 99% of the population never heard about or care, you are trying the wrong flavour of cool if you want to appeal to the centrists
"Ladies and gentlemen, a fascist." I'm already dying of laughter.
During the video I actually forgot that the characters were being played by the same person. You're really good at this!
These videos are some magical shit
Great video as always.  I thought Tabby would be a Monokuma bear.
TransAntifaCatVamp is my spirit animal
The Leftist’s stubborn attitude = Garrett
so when will the contra self-sex tape leak?
Same kind of conversation needs to happen with libertarian bros.....
I'd definitely go a girl in a mask for Tabbie, she's hot. A great work of art as usual, Natalie. Love you always!
Glad you're critiquing the left Contra, individuals like yourself instill me with confidence to identify as a liberal . . .  (Edit) I now see how this comment doesn't make any sense given what was shown in the video. Leftists and Liberals are different; though, those differences can be muddled much to my confusion. Still enjoyed the video, and the way Contra constructs and presents their arguments is noteworthy to say the least.
YES MORE CONTRAPOINTS!
Could've done without the anti-communist bullshit tbh
STOP MAKING ME QUESTION KINKS
Yas, girl, yaaaaaaas
God ur videos are great quality. Compared to those alt right wings talking to their 320 p webcams in their crusty room. Keep it up contra, I love u.
I think its also good to throw away a little idealism. MX was hostile to Integration, but its not because he necessarily hated the idea its because he was focused on justice and dignity for Black people, in his words "If integration gets us that then alright, but if integration comes and he still doesn't have his dignity then his problem is not solved" I think this line of thinking should be taken upon more by the Left today.
I mean, the 30,000 strong counter-protest happened after people were edgy on-line and stuck up for punching nazis as well. Clearly the two aren't mutually exclusive.
Antifa cat is right, but we need to be right in a convincing appealing way.   Idk if he is a leftist, but I think hbomberguy is a great example of someone who presents arguments for social justice in a cool appealing way.
I'm with the leftist girl, we do need to be ice cold motherfuckers.
Thanks Contra for making appealing progressive content. Also Tabby is my new fave. I hope you bring her back sometime
Another unbelievably good video Natalie. Get it girl!! Socratic Dialogues with a e s t h e t i c s the one true philosophy.
You read my mind.
Not only do I agree, but you still made me uncomfortable with your rhetoric. This is why I think you are so good. You always manage to put it in a way that still shakes the viewer even when they agree. I align literally entirely with the leftist, and "optics" don't matter *to me*. I also think antifa is massively important - but also, I do not represent my arguments in a way they can be misunderstood. I say what I mean and refuse to be dishonest, but I do try very hard to make it something that actually persuades. Thanks for this.
I shared this with my friends just to see if it gets heat. Probably will, but it makes a good argument that after the anger needs to be  steady and focused hand to make the current Left approachable and less emotional (please note NOT emotionless...the Right does that a lot ;))
BEST ONE YET  I think you're the coolest Nat, I'd love to get into some master-slave dialectics to find our actuated objective selves if you know what I mean!
These videos are so well written. In the "punching natsees" video my impression of who was winning the argument kept switching back and forth.
I FUCKING LOVED IT <3 UGH your videos are SO GOOD
I fucking love this channel!
fucking yass man
I still probably won't stop the hammer and sickle
Funny and thought provoking said the centrist. Well at least that is what some label me as, a centrist. For others I am a socialist/communist and probably a Stalinist. I haven't decided what I am. I am probably too lazy to put that much energy into that. Anyway, I am not a fan of antifa. I sympathize with their desire to confront alt-right  and white supremacist but just think what they do is counter-productive.
how does the centrists movement factor in on your present views @Contra?
❄️ 🕶️ ❄️ 🕶️ ❄️ 🕶️ ❄️ ＩＣＥ ＣＯＬＤ ＭＯＴＨＥＲＦＵＣＫＥＲＳ ❄️ 🕶️ ❄️ 🕶️ ❄️ 🕶️ ❄️
Conta, go on Chapo!
Right-wing beliefs are an easy sell. They're an appeal to the stability of tradition through fear and negative emotions that are always with us. Caveman thinking.  The progressive appeal to live and let live takes longer to explain. You have to fight the urge to let your worst impulses control you. But the ability to do that is the best part of being human.
tfw no edgy antifa catgirl vampire gf
The hands killed me.
A E S T H E T I C S
SABO-TABBY!!!
I like the leftist. Perfect. Sextus Empiricus battled not only superstitious dogmas but very exact cases as here in Against Professors
Communism can be pretty scary, but you'd be surprised by just how wide of an appeal being anti-cop has with Americans even regardless of race and political affiliation, especially in marginalized places like the south. Basically all cops really are Bastards anyway,
Contra, I know this is a wall, but I promise its worth it.  As somebody who has watched your critique of the left evolve from them beig "joyless and humorless" to suggestions for turning ourselves into "ice-cold motherfuckers" (which I think is absolutely valid) without becoming neoliberal shills, can I make a suggestion? Their are currently three youtubers who make videos on political economy and society from libertarian socialist perspectives: Libertarian Socialist Rants, Badmouse Productions and Mexie (check them out if you haven't already, they're incredible!). Together, the four of you hold opinions that are the closest to mine on Youtube. So I was wondering if the future of these four channels could coincide from time to time? I'm not talking about collabs, maybe cameo appearances in each others videos where the aesthetics, tone and content are collectively decided and all of you enrich each other's contents like this? Think of how a simple explanation of what libertarian socialism/anarchism is presented through deeply ironic tone like yours could draw more people. Maybe this way, that network of four channels could increase (You've already collabed with Lindsay Ellis Hbomb, etc) to incorporate a huge network of leftists collectively putting their input in each others videos (the libsoc way, baby!!). This might be a fantastic tactic when it comes to centrists. Just a thought.
I can't unsee Justine as Ivanka Trump
“Revolution is not 'showing' life to people, but making them live. A revolutionary organization must always remember that its objective is not getting its adherents to listen to convincing talks by expert leaders, but getting them to speak for themselves, in order to achieve, or at least strive toward, an equal degree of participation.”  ― Guy Debord
From strength to strength! This is art.
The production quality of these videos is off the charts fam
This touched on many of the complicated thoughts I have about the Left. Both Tabby and Justine have some valid points imo but both also lose me sometimes. Also, they are super attractive. I think, I have an aesthetic crush on all of Contra's characters ;)
I am Anifa cat
You are right about one thing, The left could use a heavy dose of "Cool" XD I'm center left, and hang out on the skeptic side of YT, but this video was YUGELY entertaining ^_^ A little more back and fourth between the Fascist and the Communist would have been interesting imo :P
I hate Contra's politics but sexy she is
1.44 rare footage of Lenin's first address to the Petrograd soviet (1917, colorised)
Fuck off, Justine.
Good points, Contra! I wonder, have you seen my second-most recent video? That's the one wherein I do a (cold) reading of some excerpts from Martin Luther King's famous "Letter from Birmingham Jail" interspersed with some angry white men and one centrist (more casually insensitive than outright racist, I would say) woman. I don't make much commentary on the clips themselves; if you haven't seen it yet, I'd appreciate your feedback, because it seems like a step to the kind of activism your talking about.
Liberals still get the bullet tho
I identify as an anarcho-feudalist
I think yr perception of the left was ruined by academia.  No one talks about Hegel in any of my circles.
I get the bullet too :(
I mean, I'd rather not have the liberals get the bullet, but if they actively take the side of the fascists... that... kind of makes them a fascist. Call me Anakin if you want, but it isn't the whole "if you aren't with me, you're against me," in this case it's "if you're against me, you're against me, except this is a bad analogy because Against Me! is actually a really good Anarcho-Punk band and I feel terrible using their name in a comparison to fascists."
Bash away, Bash away, Bash away all.
'The left' is too nebulous a concept to critique. This 'leftist' is simultaneously an anarchist, a marxist-leninist tankie, an antifa 'sjw' and a pseudo-marxist centrist liberal. She's a walking contradiction, which is slightly confusing.   Marx has really important criticisms about capitalism. Without that, the left has no substantial basis other than 'equality guys'. This isn't enough - we need strong economic arguments, which we have.   There have been efforts on the part of people like David Harvey to simplify critiques of capitalism, but you can't separate these concepts from the theory. Theory requires some degree of thinking unfortunately.   In some respects, marxists are pessimistic about revolution in the first world. This is because things aren't bad enough yet - we still are able to exploit the cheap labour of workers in the third world and we are yet to significantly automate labour. But this is Marx's dialectic - class struggle will inevitably arise out of poor material conditions. It's just a question of when and why.   If suddenly a marxist movement arises outside of a time of crisis, great! I have noticed an uptick in interest in Marx on youtube, meme pages (even ironically) and some politicians who have even aligned themselves with marxists before are becoming popular (e.g Jeremy Corbyn).   The socialist ice is thawing, people are starting to read theory and not accepting the prevailing ideology as commonsensical.
A Contra video on a lazy Sunday? What a treat.
Is Tabby a straight antifa? they exist? i guess she could be Ace? or just not into chicks with boring hair...
how does one person write an argument without making one side obviously correct
Great like usual, keep it up
Holy shit at that Engels front cover part. XD
Use of favorite music piece: :) Use of it as fascist background music: :( Being a left-wing Wagner fan is hard.
My spook detector was going crazy during the first minute.
The left needs to abandon the SJW and identity politics or it will continuing to help get people who want to fuck over the working class into political office. You are not helping by continuing to promote groups that want to alienate working class white people instead of creating a unified stranded for all regardless of race, gender or sexual orientation and promote falsified data to claim oppression.
L A B O R W A V E
This was soooo good. Impressed as always. <3
Clever and talented.   Thanks for the laughs.  : )
Pretty much r/soc in a nutshell.
I always get excited when there's a new ContraPoints video. It's like you're reaching into the confusing mess of my brain and just untangle my views on politics like it's nothing.
Thank god we have you to be cool for us Contra.
I laughed at trotskiite
I love you so much mom your work is always so amazing and spot on I'd disown my parents if it meant you'd adopt me
Notice me senpi, notice me
This is an interesting thought experiment.
aaaaaaand now im subscribing XD
This video lack of dialectism... Long live eastern Cameroon!
I thought Fritz the fascist was hot, but Tabby is now my favorite character.
What leftist actually likes Hegel, tho?
That catgirl anarcho syndicalist is very attractive.
At 2:30 is an illegal move. I was going mad trying to follow the chess game. Other than that, great video!
10:14 best part
Great video :D Also you're various outfits & makeup are awesome.
I ship Justine and Tabby.
I have to admit that I've developed deep personal feelings towards characters such as Fritz, Jackie and Abigail Cockbane...^_^ despite disagreement with them, of course.  Very well made video, yet again!!!
Oh my god. Them hand gestures... ☝👌 Dog whistle.
This is perfect. You are perfect. Please keep making these. This is an accurate microcosm for the arguments I've seen play out everywhere with principled, well-meaning leftists.  I definitely know a few people who remind me Tabby. And while I can't speak for them, I do feel you represented their views accurately. You didn't (entirely) strawman their position. I mean, some strawmanning is inevitable when representing these viewpoints, but thanks for adding nuance to the conversation as well.
LOL Jackie from Freedom Report always cracks me up
C'mon, there's nothing wrong with drinking shitty gin out of a rusty can. It'll make the can cleaner and the gin taste better!
Wagner playing during the fascist's opening argument. Clever!
Those fascist hands. You couldn't play a fascist without using your hands.
YOU'RE SO PRETTY WTF ((ALSO AMAZING PROD VALUE))
I have a good idea. Why don't we use 4chan tactics. Just use 4chan tactics.  Also communism very rarely works. I mean, people are lazy and if you don't  give them money points they won't work very hard.
Great video as always but let's be real. There is no way someone like Justine would get invited on Rubin Report.
My favorite shemale! Keep making them videos!
leave marx out completely, proudhon all the way.
Whenever I see the ACAB acronym the first thing that pops to mind is "assigned cop at birth."
I think this kind video, content are cool as will probably put lefties into a "non-confort zone" it will question today's political strategy, I can tell left-book lefties which will only spam stalin memes and liberals get the bullet too are nothing but harmful to the looks of socialist, dont get me wrong, I'm ML, but do we really need to worship leaders or instead, take whatever they did and analyze it,  brutally criticize it and then contrast it with today's political scenario as result of what was mentioned.    Do I agree with many things with the video? yes, so as well disagree with many. but again this video gave me the opportunity to question myself and thats nice, maybe I'm just too used to read Zizek as a shock therapy.
Antifa catcontra is so freakin cute :D
Love the Zeppelin.
HISSSS!
Given that fascism is a political ideology that uses force to beat down opposition and suppress objection, antifa becomes more fascist the more violent they become. Fascism is bad, you're working against your cause if you become violent too.
1:49 Fellas, your PROPERTY, er, I mean YOUR GIRL goes to the club wearing this. What do you do?  :P
This is becomming a very interesting household.
I hope the editor keeps with the continuity for the chess game
The thumbnail for this amazing video made my day
The Leftist is a cat girl     IS  THIS  A  /LEFTYPOL/  REFERENCE?!
that bowl of tomato soup still intrigues me...
Hell yeah marionette's funeral march
I'm 100% here for synthwave Marxism Ps Not gonna lie, I think you're really hot in your fascist uniform pls help me I'm sorry hail satan
Socialism: you wait in line for bread  Capitalism: the bread what's for you (unless your poor and can't buy it, fuck you)
You're my favorite person.
looks like someone need the selected works of chairman mao
TL:DR: BRING POLITICAL CAT GIRLS BACK !!!!!!!
My Bae is back
You are such a cute cat-girl!
6 mins in...I'm convinced its a masterpiece
Well I for one am totally on board with more ice cold leftists.
Thanks for another amazing video! If you don't have another idea already planned, how about you tackle makeup culture in the feminist circles? People say it's capitalistic feminism to support overpriced makeup, but others feel that being against makeup is being against feminism. People argue over whether makeup is feminist, so I wondering about your opinion. Thanks again!
#Brunchgate2k17
Contra should write a boook
"Reason doesn't matter very much" Definitely Leninist, drinks tea with fascists confirmed Trotskyite. Sigh bring me my ice pick..../ joke don't hate me
I absolutely adore this. My only criticism is that I wish it was longer.
Well if you look at how many Marxist groups like Redneck revolt, Red Guars Austin, and etc have grown to confront the white supremacists like Identity Ecropa and other alt-right dickheads! The first Berkeley thing over Milo Yiannopoulos who was planning to make a list of undocumented students there and get them deported which I think justifies Antifa's response!
I will miss the hammer and sickle ;-;
"Ladies and gentlemen, a fascist." Yep, pretty accurate to real life.
Contra, I love every single one of your videos! You are the sparkling joy in my YouTube subscriptions!   However, could you not give me a brand new fetish everytime you invent a new character? I didn't realise "Two-Tone Antifa" would be as big a turn on as "Leather Nazi", actually, keep at it!
Mother Contra may the meows spread far.
I like those tetris leggings <3
7:56 Who lets a king take a rook? Do you even chess?
2.2k views in the time it took to watch it...
The shade to Donald Trump
Thank you for the lesbians. I hope they get together 💖
Contra making progressive dialogue entertaining to watch is doing a lot for Youtube, hopefully she'll grow in popularity
Oh good so I was right, the cold opening of that one anarcho weeb is representation that left ism as a whole is subculturing itself to the point where it is indigestible to the working class as a whole and the people that are being fucked over and have to live on the fringes of capitalism in the system. This is going to be a fun critical analysis.
Love that you had Eruption playing! and Miles Davis is god!
I literally came to youtube only to find that this video had been posted two minutes before. My ContraPoints senses are becoming sharper!
I loved the cameos :D
God i love these videos.... you've made the opposition interesting... im ready to listen to your position now... also im sexually confused by you and was just wondering if your busy next week... dinner, movie, maybe some dancing.
fam, I'm only halfway in and I'm dying
Your friendly neighborhood anarcho social libertarian here under the banner of pragmatism and I approve of this message.  (One thing Natalie, I've never met a red & black who is cool with primitivism but the majority of your audience pry won't notice)
That was fucking beautiful, Contra. <3
THANK YOU, for pointing out again how weird and counterproductive it is for leftists to co-opt imagery that is mostly associated with Soviet/Chinese communist governments.
love these, it's a lynchian phantasmagoric bizarre world that mimics the voices that argue in my head, with random "oh hegel nah" jokes, sorry that was beyond pretentious i'll see my self out
There are so many Memes in this one. I'm off to .gif the shit out of this!  Also, the ideas were good. :D
i love the writing and acting
KittyPoints is all sorts of hot.
Mao is back. What happened to the Dark Queen?
I love you contra! Thanks for the amazing work xx
expose them contra, expose  EDIT: or expose us I suppose :) a thought provoking vid to say the least. well done. Its true, to the untrained eye, the alt-right seems "cooler" and "rational". Mix this with the efficient circle jerk of the right wing media and you get a fuck up
Love the attention to hand gestures during the fascist speech. Bravo Contra
No matter what side of the political divide you're on, you have to agree that these videos are very well made and entertaining to watch.
Gimme that L A B O U R W A V E
You look excellent in fangs, btw
decline of western civilisation go on chapo
Watch Maoist-Hoxahism, Democracy at work, they're becoming extremely popular
HAIL SATAN!!! 🌹🌹🌹🌹🌹
I proper jumped when I saw the notification, you saved a shite day haha <3
The leftist got my vote.
Omg the hand motions in the beginning. X,D
You are a genius
I like this furry character
My Willy Got Hard
Squee! A new ContraPoints  I feel like I learn so much from her.
I've looked forward to this so much!!!!!
Join the Democratic Socialists of America , the fastest growing socialist party!
Natalie's makeup game thoughhhh 😍👄💄good shit
first dislike
I read *"the left"* as contras dramatic voice
Dis gon b gud!!!   ***Spoilers***   It wuz.( ͡☉ ͜ʖ ͡☉)
When I was just reading the tweet about this video haha.
I AM THE ANTIFA GUY AND I BRING YOU FIRST.Also, I finally have met my waifu, Antifascist Catgirl Vampire.
Early squaaaad
FIRST ONE HERE I LOVE YOU CONTRA
First
