I'm reading Marjorie Garber at the moment and I'm sure somewhere she says "every fetish is a story disguised as an object." I'm not sure the RadFem and the Kinkster are really at odds, since we could analyse why the Kinkster likes the things they do and maybe learn some really cool stuff about the social context, and maybe about themselves, but would that reduce or get rid of the desire? They'd still be able to get off on what they like, they'd just be more aware of the social context stuff while doing it? So... both I guess?
I’ve been binging on your old videos waiting for the next upload. I wish we had gone the same school, having a friend like you back then would have been incredible.
Abigail at 1:02 is me all the time
"introspection only uncovers the terrible traumas of your past"
Does that mean a female Domme (which wasn't really talked about) is the ultimate reflection of feminism and female strength? Also I have a few issues with how BDSM is portrayed here in general, and of course how the Feminist is portrayed. Firstly D/s isn't based on gender. Nothing in BDSM is based on gender, it's based instead on desire, trust, and communication. And just to note for some of the commenters who are worried about being pushed into "BDSM" that would actually be impossible, as BDSM involves more consent than vanilla sex and very in depth discussions about limits, also there are safe words, active consent, check ins, after care, most of which is discussed before any play session ever begins. Kinky sex however is not necessarily BDSM, and is what people are probably thinking of when they think of being "pressured" into BDSM. Secondly,  you got your titles mixed up, Sir or Miss denotes Dominance not submission. If someone was walking around calling themselves Sir submissive and smacking themselves with random crops in a gimp mask most people would probably avoid them or ask if they were some kind of switch? Thirdly, you missed the fact that there are people who switch between D and s, There are female Dommes and there are forms of BDSM that are very light in the Sadism/Masochism or pain/pleasure dynamic, others that's don't have it at all, it's not as much about torture as it is about accepting your own sexuality, it can also involve reclaiming something negative (like the word slut) and turning it into something orgasmic or beautiful. Sex is also not necessarily something that is involved in that sort of relationship, more often than not public dungeons or play spaces don't even allow sex and most people involved in the BDSM community will tell you many of their scenes don't involve sex at all, even when done in private. So I think when you take all of that into consideration BDSM and Feminism are not at odds in any way shape or form.
👏👏👏
Love your cosplay outfits... they are cosplay right? Well not my business but I did dabble a bit in BD and very light SM so I do know that there is a lot of discussion about likes, dislikes and compatability
Is it getting hot in here or is it just me
I need to know where to get Sir Beatrix’s top!
I came for the borhap poster
LMAOOOOO This is incredible. Thank you for your accurate representation of this debate.
I've been binging your videos, as soon as I get paid I'd like to support you. I don't make much, but I hope you're able to make more videos. Your latest one was so informative, as was this one. I really appreciate your perspective.
I don't know if ive ever laughed out loud at a YouTube video before, but the silhouette of the Victorian father in his officer's cap, and the "honey, I'm home..." I literally lol'ed
THIS.IS.GOLD
I wonder how Epicurus would feel about masochism
i tried to absorb the content but i was diagnosed with Big Gay Disorder and i got too distracted by nathalia as sr beatrix
The ASMR at the end tho..... really nice XD
What do you think of masochism in a non-sexual context? Because people who are totally chill with kink stuff are often less chill with similar self-inflicted injuries in other situations.
0:06 I want someone to turn this scene into a Renaissance painting.
My fiance cums hard as fuck when i choke her a bit, so much so that she grabs my hands and puts them on her throat. Outside the bedroom she's the sweetest thing anyone has ever met aswell ahhaha.
I didn't want to watch this, I didn't enjoy it. It made me think. It was interesting. Thanks...?
this video mostly just made me wonder what shaped my kinks
*pauses on **5:54* *comes back 20 minutes later* Ok, continue
"I just don't see how that could be arousing" Oh but I can...
i don't have enough asmr contrapoints in my life   also, why is this age restricted??? its not any weirder than any other vid on this channel. is it only because it has the WORD bdsm  in the title? because that is totally stupid, this is actually a mature conversation about 2 very different but still valid opinions on bdsm, and frankly, considering i had to wait a year to watch this, i am QUITE DISAPPOINTED, YOUTUBE REALLY GOT MY HOPES UP ON THIS ONE THERE IS NOT ENOUGH BDSM
1:48 lmaoooooo
I like the way you think, time to get drunk and forget.
"Delisquescent" FTW!
Please, can you make a video about foot fetish ?
Damn it Natalie, I had done quite well with being depressed until I heard you whispering ASMR style, I've forgotten my sadness and now  I'm kinda turned on.
As a radfem I’m changing my name to Abigail Cockbain. Brilliant! Her book should be mandatory reading at schools along with with famous tome “Just Stop Raping People”.  I have heard some women in the BDSM scene say they feel some pressure to be submissive by men. With an unequal power dynamic can there be true consent?  We all internalise misogyny & toxic masculinity pretty much from birth and I think this has got to affect unconscious desires in some way just as it infiltrates other areas of our life.  IDK I’m way out of my depth with the eloquent & erudite Lady Points, as usual, but I’m here to learn 🧐
Genius!
I'm so drunk with your videos
dang those are some really nicely toned arms
fuck your channel is the best 🎆
Life doesn't make any fucking sense
Maybe I'm getting easier to please in my old age, but the opening to this video is -- literally -- making me laugh quite out loud.
abigail looks so cute here to me for some reason 5:05
5:17 to 5:54 had me in need of a very cold shower
I think with these topics we must decide what we would allow or not in our own lives, and not judge what anybody else does. I do not want to reinforce masochistic or sadistic tendencies in myself and therefore will not practice such things. Because I know deep down they wouldn't be good for me or someone else. Also I would be okay with, like, someone I'm with having something like a harmless foot fetish or other non-abusive kinks. I really don't understand how that could be arousing for anybody but you do you boo! Go get the feet!
CMNF and ContraPoints are my kinks.
"sir Beatrix" XD
who cares?
I think the book "sex, culture, and justice: the limits of choice" has an answer to this question. Yes all choices are influenced by culture. We only have a reason to be concerned when that choice is disadvantageous to the chooser in a way that benefits another group (particularly, although not exclusively, if that other group is propagating the influence). So while many women do choose to leave their careers to focus on childcar and on an individual level thats fine, on a societel level this is problematic since they could not control the fact that they make those choices under the influence of a patriarchal society and those choices disadvantage women (financially) in a way that advantages men. In chosing to be submissive in a safe environment, the woman is not disadvantaged in a way that advantages the man (arguably) and so there is no issue, even though this choice perhaps is partly a result of the patriarchal context in which the decisions were made. However, we should be careful to note that the same elements of our culture which influence women to make non-problematic bdsm decisions, probably also influence them to make decisions which are problematic and disadvantage the chooser
These characters bruh
BDSM is like playing around in a chem lab. if everyone knows what they're doing -- the rules and safety measures are clear -- it'll probably be fine. if not, then something is definitely going to go horribly wrong.   yet, even careful experts can make  a mistake, especially because one's knowledge of oneself is incomplete.  i know 3 people -- although one of them is me -- who traumatized or re-traumatized themselves with this stuff unknowingly. for me, i never got deep into it, i can count the amount of times i did it on one hand, but the last time i shut down mentally and was unable to say the safe word even though i needed to.   i guess it just annoys me when people who have no experience with BDSM just totally ~uwu~ it to seem woke. i obviously support consenting adults doing whatever they want, but in this case there is hella room for, "wow, that was way worse than i imagined and there's no way i could have mentally prepared for it."  the truth (imo!!) is that even with communicative, caring, careful people, who've "read up," it's STILL psyche-risky business.  i know the common response is "just because you had a bad experience doesn't mean others will, or that it's bad."  but like, i think it's better to go into it knowing that you are altering your mental state and, as such, you may not properly come down from the high or up from the drop.   (although the same is true of drugs, and you won't ever hear me moralizing about those, so perhaps i am just biased.👍)
Cool . thanks .
I'm a domina in my personal life and used to tolerate hetero male doms existing in BDSM communities, but then I discovered they will hit on me and disregard me not being interested and that they are often just over-glorified pick up artists. There are people who mask being abusers as being sex-positive and I have definitely seen alot of those types online, writting me paragraf long messages about their rape fantasies even if there is literally no hint on my fetlife profile that we might have any overlapping fetishes.
What I don't understand about the radfem perspective - let's say every woman who derives pleasure from being whipped is 100%, completely influenced by patriarchy and male dominance. Let's say patriarchy is the only cause, nothing else could make a woman enjoy sadism. So fucking what? Is she supposed to just stop participating in it? Is she not allowed to enjoy it anymore? I don't know why I enjoy chocolate, maybe it's because advertisements have brainwashed me, maybe my body depends on theobromine for sustenance, maybe it's some strange manifestation of a hidden scat fetish. But I don't fucking care, it doesn't actually matter WHY I like it, all I need to know is where I can buy more. If advertisements have brainwashed me, great, they've delivered me to happiness. If the patriarchy has given women a channel they can receive sexual pleasure through, it sounds like it's finally doing something nice for them.
Just wondering what level of skill it takes to play there characters kinda at once... or at least in one story.
I am a white cis-man and this was another masterstroke from Nathalie Wynn
No. It isn’t.
When I think about it, what peeves me about BDSM is that it seems to equal Dominance with masculinity and Submission with femininity. I know there are a lot of female doms with male subs but even then the role of who is masculine and who is feminine just switches. I'm not part of the BDSM community so I can't know if that's how the majority sees it but that's the image being spread as BDSM gains mass appeal from pop culture and internet culture.
Instead of vacuuming my living room, I choose to go grocery shopping, therefore grocery shopping is feminist.
I love this! This is really good!
“You Can Come For Free At Home” 👌🏽😂
Men's brain is more wired towards violence in sex. Women, however, find it offputting. ContraPoints is a man(even though he decided to change sex) and therefore he views violence in sex as arousing.
Your early videos are insane!!
What about race-play? Would you be able to assume the role of a slave-master if your black partner claimed to feel "turned-on" by that? Yes, race-play is "a thing" that falls under the metaphorical umbrella of BDSM. Is it not wrong to physically hurt someone- cut them, burn them, etc. and derive pleasure from that? Is it not indicative of some sort of deeper mental pain to enjoy being beaten, cut, etc.? What about self-harmers? We see self-harm (same thing: cutting, burning, etc.) as an indication of mental pain, but why is it OK in the context of sex?
In a strange way the ending reminded me of how the old romper room tv show began.
These characters are fantastic, as usual :) I was really nervous about watching this because it rather hits home for me: but now I've got some ideas for a new blog post.
Grade A acting when Cockbane goes into her rant
The interviewer is quite rational.
I'm following your advice. I got drunk and leaving this comment now.
I think a better question would be Is BDSM always healthy? Knowing someone in the BDSM community I have gotten a first hand look at that community. First off saying you consent to something and actually consenting to something are often two different things. We all either know or were the kid in high school who didn't want to drink at the party but "consented" to it anyway. Also I have noticed a trend at least among the BDSM community I am aware of. That trend is that there are about a hundred subs for every dom. No one seems to want to be the dom. Why is that? In my opinion it is because the dom has all the responsibility in the relationship. The dom makes all the decisions regarding where they and their sub or subs will live, what they will do in their free time, what the sub or subs will do in their own personal lives etc. Many of the subs I know of do not seem to want any responsibility.  Asking them what restaurant they wish to eat at tonight is enough to make them break out in a cold sweat. "What if I pick a bad restaurant? What if the food is cold? It will be my fault!" So the subs willingly hand over all responsibility to the dom so they don't have to own up to any bad decisions they might make concerning cold food or any other consequences decision making may lead to big or small. I know one woman who is in her mid thirties who has never held a job and whom hops from dom to dom looking for people to take care of her because she can not take care of herself. Is this healthy? In my opinion, no it is not. I think some light BDSM with your partner on a Friday night is fine if you both truly enjoy it but once it becomes a "life style" that you try to live out twenty-four hours a day it has crossed the line. BDSM is a fantasy and fantasies are fine as long as you understand they are fantasies and not reality but many in the BDSM community seem to have lost the capacity to do that.
🖤
Female tazmanian devils choose their mates by instigating fights with males until they find a male who can win against them.  Then they have sex with that male.  I kind of see human sexuality somewhat similarly.  Women often want men to display their physical robustness as a mate in bed, and often that involves physical domination.  Personally, as a woman and a feminist, this doesn't bother me at all.  It's very primal and animalistic, and I'm fine with that.  What bothers me is when that domination extends beyond the bedroom.  I think most women can agree that we are inherently equal to men and that we don't want to be dominated by men at work, at home during normal activities, or in any other daily-life situation.  That's always infuriating.  And there's no contradiction there.  Being dominated in daily life doesn't *serve us* biologically or socially (though it *does* serve men to dominate us socially), whereas being dominated sexually is kind of a mating ritual.  That said, human brains are super complex and varied, and not all women are interested in sexual domination, and plenty of men are interested in being dominated (and obviously, not everyone fits into the sexual binary or the hetero norm anyway).  I think there's also an element of how we respond to the daily struggle of not being completely in control of things in our lives, and that that feeling of lack of control can manifest sexually, depending on your temperament, as either a desire to exert control or to completely surrender control in a way that's actually cathartic.
I guess the way I see it is that you don't have to make every decision of your life based on the question is this feminist? To somehow uphold your feminists beliefs. We can't all afford to go against the grain at every possible opportunity. We may find that we enjoy things that aren't essentially feminist, but that doesn't wipe away our identity as feminists.
"Well, everyone is effected by Patriarchy"  But that wouldn't that result in all men being dominants? No male subs?
your presentation style is so boring i can’t believe you think you can hold the attention of any racist young men.
Goddamn Nat, that monologue by Cockbane just goddamn. I'm actually curious if you've ever written erotica. Also you are officially my favorite YouTuber, I adore your videos, the style, the message, the sense of humor that matches mine perfectly. Keep up the amazing work <3
Wut
Disgusting pervert XD
I love the point and how you think about it all the time before it.
"It's 5:30am, what the fuck am I doing?" Oh my god, SAME
I think the only way to be a _bad feminist_ is by accepting patriarchy. Everything else is something else.
Ok, I know this is, in internet terms, an old-ass video, but I combed through all that contrapoints has to offer.  And I never saw this video until just now.  Am I so old and out of touch that I am doing you tube all wrong?!? I just wanna devour every video you do yet I understand that the old ones cause you severe discomfort, so I let it be.  But this shows up on my shit and I'm blown away!! Either way, LOVE the content, old and new, and I want to thank you for being so personal, so entertaining, so informative, and most of all for allowing me to feel like I'm not alone in thinking the way I do.  You have no idea how much your videos have helped me.  Please keep being your awesome self.
7:26 made me feel things
This has to be the only video where Abigail is not acting particularly punch-worthily. Also Jackie is being reasonable...
Was it your intention to answer the question? Because I don't think you've scratched much of the surface to succeed.
Yoooo I was literally talking about this with my bf today. He asked me why I liked to be dominated and I was like “idk society??? Mainstream sexual media?” Or maybe I’m inherently a submissive person. I’ve always hated the pressure of making decisions for example. It’s an interesting debate
Ha Ms Cockbane
old contra is so sexy i want her to call me a good girl in her asmr voice and slap me with her flogger
I think I am too much of a prude for this :D no hate tho
Ok but... Your triceps though. 🌽💦
🤘
Pa pa pa power is the problem.  Who has it?  Who doesn't have it?  Who wants to take it?  Who wants to give it away?  What are the subjective issues?  What are the objective issues?  What is a fair use of power?  What is an abuse of power?  The answer to your particular question is that BDSM is fair and feminist until it isn't.  Mystery solved until safe words are invoked.
fuck, i wish i could watch this video
That asmr at the end was actually so relaxing I'm gonna fall asleep to that every night from now on
Most I've ever laughed. Thank you, I needed that. And as a BDSM enthusiast, I like the argument.
Did anyone else start breathing heavily during the fantasy description of the fwminist character? No? I'm such a freak...
can we talk about the white nationalists who pose online as white women seeking arab doms to "enslave" them so they can reenforce their sexual anxiety about immigrants and for that sweet release of momentarily removing the heavy burden of fighting what is in their minds "the good fight" and give in to what they believe are hordes of horny ultra masculine arabs coming to defile western civilization and subordinate it to "Sharia law" ? cause thats a phenomenon that, truly fascinates me.
>infinite jest  You are not valid
George Takei: oh myyy!
It's interesting to see how Cockbane has changed over the years.
The cenobites approve
Given how society views kink in general I'd say that it is a liberating experience both as a woman according to society and as a person in general. In the US we don't even get a real sex education class anymore. Porn, sex toys, condoms, contraceptives, and several other sex related products are age restricted, hidden, expensive, heavily regulated, and stigmatized. So taking control of your sex life and doing what you want is extremely difficult especially for people who work in some industries like government. Whatever is being done wrong is hidden along with those who are actually being their true selves and if you are into kink and a situation becomes abusive it's just another hurdle of judgement for them to get help. Calling a kink anti-feminist is just another example of why it is actually feminism. It's just another way to tell women that they can't like sex or a type of sex because bla, bla, bla. This is especially true considering the fact that the overwhelming majority who judge it ARE NOT part of it. I like your video, but I feel like a lot of people don't get it. It's fine you don't have to get it, but your judgment makes it easier for people to get abused and it hurts those in the community. That's just something to consider when you decide who gets to do what.
It's going to take a lot of work to decouple Chopin's Prelude in D-Flat Major from the story of the Japanese governess. It's oen of my favorite pieces of music.  As for the rest, all this thinking is hard. Sometimes you just want to enjoy pleasure in this often rotten world. I wonder why pleasure is so often paired with guilt, even when it doesn't seem necessary . Now there's an interesting topic. Should you ever choose to cover it, I hope you'll bring back the nun outfit!
In my experience the sub usually has the most control in BDSM  scenes/relationships anyway. I'm my partner's Dominant, I do what I want and make all the decisions... Except we have the limits planned out beforehand and they get a button to push at any point for any reason  to stop it. I'm a masochistic female Dom so half the time I'm ordering my partner to harm me. Yes, so unfeminist I am For Sure being part of my own subjugation.   Someone once had a go at me for being transphobic and sexist because my partner is a trans man and submissive both in the bedroom and naturally in real life (though I don't take a dominant role 24/7, I need to know they're fully able to say yes and no without thinking they'll be punished outside of a scene). If everyone involved is happy and safe who fucking cares.
I love that Abigail Cockbane blinks so much (0:22). I LOVE IT. I rewatched that bit so much, I love it! It's not funny or anything, just fascinating..and I don't know why I find it so! Why did you have her blink so much? :)  It just makes my day, and fills me with joy and satisfaction about life and gives me that feeling of the world being a good and wonderful place. That's so rare these days. Thank you.
i think the psychological reasons people like BDSM or why power elements add to sexual pleasure for a lot of people goes a lot deeper than society, it has to do with personality, confidence, sexuality, including what type of sex you enjoy most, what turns you on, the kinds of things you enjoy in non-sexual contexts, and lots of other things. while society might have some influence on your preferences, it really is waaay more complicated than that.
Yeah, I mean some of the stuff young girls have to do in porn is messed up
Natalie Wynn: A man who transitioned into a beautiful woman playing the role of a man who happens to look like a sexy woman in that BDSM getup... PLEASE MAKE MY FACE YOUR CHAIR ====D :P
I’m gonna need Natalie to do more ASMR pls
I enjoyed watching the video AND going through the comment section, which was respectful and very useful. I really love your channel, Ms Contrapoints <3
The kinkster one is at least rational for the most part
Abigail monologue gave me a giggling semi, I am not gonna lie
Hahaha  Intelligent and funny! Congrats!!! 👍
I love you! ❤❤❤❤❤ you've become my favorite female youtuber at this point.
Wait what? I must have taken a wrong turn somewhere. How did I end up on this video? How did I get to this part of Youtube?  Interesting Vid though
5:44 your videos always give me a great laugh!
You kinda hit the nail. There is no choice.   Dark necessities are part of my design.
As weird as it might seem from a surface point of view. There are also people that describe control and a feeling of empowerment in taking on the submissive role. Which completely undermines Abigail's stance.
😂😂😂 I love
I think race play really illustrates this point.  I find the kink really disturbing. If a person of color asked me to abuse them with racial epithets during sex, I simply wouldn't be able to do it. I'm half white, so race play would make me feel horrible, instantly take me out of the mood and cause me to think extremely unsexy thoughts about awful things that happen in the real world.  It's obvious that the desire for race play is caused by living in a racist society, but it's really not my place to condemn any African-American who wants to do it. I'm definitely angry at society that race play is a thing. I'm angry that society is racist enough that people would want to engage in race play, but I'm absolutely not going to condemn any individual people of color who want to engage in it.  As you say, kinks aren't rational and you can't really condemn anyone for their kinks as long as everything is consensual.
Kinks and BDSM roles are a mix of individual nature VS nurture (culture), for example most subs are women bcs it's freeing and empowering to finally give in to pressure and abuse in a safe environment where you're the one taking every decision and the Dom/Domme is just following your wishes to every specific detail and pace as you space out, so it's a way to rest from being an grown up human stressed and drained from mistreatment, dehumanization and objectification by giving up that autonomy and the awareness of that humanity by your own will and on your own terms. It can be cathartic, most kinksters are some of the most insightful, observant and empathic people bcs they've/ we've studied themselves in order to understand them/ourselves, their/our natures and others.    BDSM (though it's a concept and a community from our times, so what it groups and it being Safe, Sane and Consensual it's only a thing of today and the last few decades) is a parody of any reignant social norms and roles, it makes a mock of them. It helps people cope, it makes it obvious that every social norm, binary, cultural and social construct and hierarchy is disposable or at least dismembrable to see if its worthy, fair, functional or useful due to the ludic nature of kink. It can evidence that life is theatre, roleplay looks a like radical theater but it's visceral, cathartic and tender. It shows the true raw nature of its participants which only makes the "real" world more disgusting, fake, pathetic and easy to crumble.   Of course kink is partially cultural, eroticism is cultural, that's what makes sexuality so enjoyable and fascinating, that's the reason why some religious people can have such rich kinks: from christianity's guilt and sin driven punishments to parafernalia like crucifix shaped dildos or nun-priest-student roleplay to anything and whatver other religious kinksters lust for.   Of course there's kinksters who honestly believe men "natural" place is to rule over women, and some that are white supremacists and ableists, they're not deconstructing anything (apart from their own repressions and limits when they come from kinkshaming contexts on different levels of conservadurism and antisexwork beliefs, which is a long path, so one has to give them credit for that) but they're perpetuating real current and historical abuse, their kinks sort of fit social normativity and they're just okay not questioning anything nor empathizing with oppressed and vulnerable people/ foster internalized hate.   I don't attempt to kinkshame, I'm saying that not all kinksters think the same way, which should be common sense, it's not one single person in the history of humanity, we don't share a brain, exact genes nor have had the same experiences from stone age, going through our ancestors of other species until today everywhere in the world. And of course there's infinitesimal variants and gradients on that and any kink related and human related topic.   I do wanna remark that sexual freedom and the destigmatization of kinks deeply helps secularization, humanism, feminism, disabled rights... so it actually benefits all. Homosexuality was a considered a kink/paraphilia/disease/the result of trauma until very recently, same with transgenderism. Questioning wheather our reality is sane and fair pushes us to demand and fight for a better reality, backing it up with laws that actually help victims and gradually changing the public's opinion of what's considered ethical just like   When most people thought/thinks watching a black or a native american/australian person being tortured, empaled, mutilated and burnt on a pyre was wholesome sunday entertainment;   When people thinks torturing and bleeding out an abused bull for the sake of tradition and taurine "art" is entertaining and intellect fullfilling;   when people thought watching starved lions eating starved prisioners was entertaing;   when people thought/thinks watching non-whites and disabled people as circus "freaks" was wholesome,   when people thinks the same of abused animals in circuses and in shitty zoos/   when humans think is okay to live in a world where female dogs and females of other species get raped systematically to have puppies, then such puppies get sold and the breeding dogs are abandoned/eaten once they're unfertile (I know some breeders do it ethically I'm not talking about those people though I don't fully love their work/hobby/lifestyle I do understand nor everyone's health or life's circumstances can afford to give up meat altogether, take abuse vitims who are on survival mode and can't choose what they eat, or Temple Grandin for example, she hurted so much from other animals pain's that she did something to improve their quality of life on large scale because her autism equiped her with the extra empathy, resiliance and compassion that made it unbearable to live in a world like this, seeing others' suffer and not trying to help them, besides she's brave AF, persistent and a very hardworking person with some privilege from having an extremely rare mother for that era, some very supportive people in her life and some opportunities that most people don't have but either way she's an extremely commendable, brave, hardworking and compassionate person <3  when people want death penalty for every sex offender, pedophile, rapist, kidnapper and murderer and take pleasure on the possibility of them getting wildly raped in prison.   Those people are the ones who get shocked when a man (or any person but most often a cis male) kills his wife/ daughter /sister /mother /grandma / any relative, stranger or aquaintance /any women or vulnerable person including males sometimes, and of course non-binaries (some of the current preferred victims of hate crimes along with trans women), yet don't manage to see that they pushed every woman and every other victim into the wolf's pen by being lazy people who don't question our societies but instead remark and defend the sociopathic antisocial behaviours, mindsets and abuse hierarchies that push victims into dangerous situations, being blinded to redflags, being revictimized, crimes being impune and celebrated and survivors and victims often believing they deserve the abuse BTW, so when people are caught as "monsters" and get the momentary attention of mass media most humans are easy to point their accusatory fingers without realizing that wishing for rape punishments in prison, or by real or imaginary vigilantism is precisely what made it easy for sexual predators and murderers to dehumanize their victims and "punish" them/ getting off from sadism, bcs they are the result of our societies, which accidentally illustrates how everyone and everything is influenced by culture, history and by our peers.
I'm so interested in how RadFems deal with Femdom, Lesdom and female Switches.  Also like. Legally you can't consent to illegal actions, fine. But I know personally folks who've consentually broken the Geneva Convention. Laws are not always aligned with personal consciousness.
I love you Natalie!!
Not drunk, alas, but still commenting :-) Your videos are always thought-provoking. Is pure bondage without the D, S & M parts less problematic? I guess like any other aspect of a relationship, it behooves one party to say if something really bothers them, and the other to not put such pressure on the first party that they don't feel that they can do it. tl;dr People are a problem.
I have never felt asmr before... but your voice sent chills up and down my body 😍😍😅
actually laughing out loud,  you are amazing
Contrapoints debates with herself are better than your average news debate.
maaaaaaax
I always find it amusing that "radical feminists" assume it is men abusing women and thats what is prevalent in BDSM. Thats actually not the case. If you look at, for instance, clips 4 sale, arguably the biggest kink clip site on the internet, it is males being abused by females that are in all the top slots in sales. Female dom is huge, way bigger than anyone thinks, but the cis world and radical feminists cant square that with their preconceived notion of women as victims so they just ignore it. Im not even going to get into financial domination lol. Lets just say, ladies are far from victims in the fetish world. They dish it out as well as they take it.
6:36 I'm both of those statements
5:17 0.o holy shit lol, couldn’t top laughing that was hilarious and amazing wow
hi mum
Spot on ... and hilarious :'D ! I specifically searched 'feminism' and 'bdsm' in the youtube-bar, as I recently noticed, how many feminists seem to be into bdsm - mainly on the submissive side. Now, The "programmed by society (maaaan)"-argument could be an explanation. Another reason could be, that the dominatrix is a rare creature amongst women in general. However, I'm not quite ready to abandon my hypothesis, that specially rad-fems could be over-compensating for eliminating strong, forceful men from their lives. As for sex-negative feminists - That's probably where the really messed up sh*t happens. Just something that's been working in my head for while and I thought I'd share that for possible discussion. Peace :)
I see you follow @HeathFeathASMR on Twitter and she's an influence.
"Not legal to consent to torture" is out of context, I think;  I _think_ that the UN regs are intended to stop some regime waving a 'signed consent form' next time someone turns up with a few fingers missing.
Thank God im a feminist that doesn't have a desire to be whipped and humiliated. What a crazy mind splitting existence that would be.
Why doesnt Contra Crack exist? I want a 10 min cut of Natalie in all the sexy leather things speaking German....
Well, I am not getting drunk so I might as well leave an unoriginal comment.
Drunk comment!
"You can cum for free at home: the case against prostitution."
Yes.
I wanna kiss the boots of Tabby after she’s stomped some fascist.
Considering that there are more male dominants than female ones, bdsm just becomes another example of how the world ie patriarchy views and treats women as submissive sex objects. That is not feminist, it is the exact opposite and only furthers the narrative that men are supposed to dominate and women are submissive sex servants for men. It’s bullshit and the sexual violence against women needs to stop!
"Without a rigorous and consistent evaluation of what kind of a future we wish to create, and a scrupulous examination of the expressions of power we choose to incorporate into all our relationships including our most private ones, we are not progressing, but merely recasting our own characters in the same old weary drama…S/M is not the sharing of power, it is merely a depressing replay of the old and destructive dominant/subordinate mode of human relating and one-sided power, which is even now grinding our earth and our human consciousness into dust."    "...I’m not questioning anyone’s right to live. I’m saying we must observe the implications of our lives. If what we are talking about is feminism, then the personal is political and we can subject everything in our lives to scrutiny. We have been nurtured in a sick, abnormal society, and we should be about the process of reclaiming ourselves as well as the terms of that society. This is complex. I speak not about condemnation but about recognizing what is happening and questioning what it means. I’m not willing to regiment anyone’s life, but if we are to scrutinize our human relationships, we must be willing to scrutinize all aspects of those relationships. The subject of revolution is ourselves, is our lives."  http://www.feminist-reprise.org/docs/lordesm.htm  - Audre Lorde
I feel like I need to make 10 Google accounts just to like this video enough.
Increíble tema. El Oli se rifo
6:30 me explaining my weirdness to my friends  I’m fine IM FINE ! I’m fine :)
Brilliant video n comments
:)
6:30 one of my kinks is hairpulling, and after an argument with my dad, during which he pulled my hair and almost broke my neck, it took me months to enjoy it again without flashbacks. So, in my experience, trauma almost ruined my kink, instead of became the source of it.
5:12 I need to take a shower
Contrapoints, how it this... wait, it's Natalie, right? You hate being called Contrapoints... Haha I remember "It's the name of the show! Grr" or something. It was cute.  Sorry. Natalie, How is this even a question... Wait, "Monica?" No, "Natalie." ... I should go and check another episode to make sure. I'm not doing that. If it's Monica she'll be like, "It's Monica, dorkus!" OK, sorry, whatever.   An example of, "How to sound like a creep in a YouTube comment," from Ernest Salvo's "The Internet for Tomato-Heads"  How is this even a question? It's a person doing something they want to do because it gives them pleasure. It's like the most free thing on the planet. That should be the beginning and the end of the show. And I'm not even into it. I think it looks like it might HURT. :(
I lost it when she said, “I hate my job.”
My girl loves a little BDSM sometimes. Who doesn't? amirite ;)
Women aren't real so none of this matters.
I think generally the conversation around BDSM begins with the assumption that men are inherently dominant and women are naturally submissive. I would argue that the idea of female submission and male dominance is simply a societal stereotype that is furthered as we grow up. I personally am turned on by dominating men or other women, so yes, BDSM is feminist for me, though I am formally considered a switch.
Back when the freedom report was good smh
this video is art
I'm drunk, so here's a comment.
Love this channel!
My boyfriend and I are both into dom/sub dynamics. Thing is, we’re both switches, so works out well ;)
Why do anyone care about what others think they do privately?
lol i kinda hate that abigail is the one in this argument bc, despite disagreeing w her adamantly in every other of her appearances, out of the two of these here, i kinda agree with her more. bdsm isnt necessarily a feminist act, just the same as a woman choosing to be a housewife is. this isn't to say that ppl cant consent to it, nor that performing bdsm is wrong, but simply that i dont think we can conclusively just end the argument by saying that it is always feminist. I think if this video were to be revisited (of course it wont, but like just as a hypothetical), i think another interesting line of thought would interrogate not the intentions, desires, and consent of submissive parties, but rather do the same to doms, specifically male ones. I don't necessarily think it's something that men do conciously, but there is definitely always an undercurrent of doubt in my mind that men sometimes use kink as a relatively socially acceptable way to act out violence against women, especially sexual violence, as long as they make sure they take steps to ensure consent and provide aftercare. this is not to say that bdsm is exactly the same as men who do these things as actual violent crimes, but i think we should be wary of writing off any possibility that men are influenced by a culture that psychologically conditions them towards sexual and physical dominance over women
There are also stereotypical ways to enact gender roles, even in the male submissive/female domme dynamic. There are also far more male dominants than female dominants, that may reflect a structural male/female dynamic. Is it just about consent and trauma ?  Friendly remark from a fascist (every leftist's dream is to be dommed by a fascist, confess !).
<3
I just discovered your channel with your incels video and now this one, and wow! I'm so excited to watch all your other videos. Subscribed!
I enjoyed this video, but at the same time I feel like all the stuff against or for the BDSM lifestyle, community, and whatever else can't be totally summarized in a single nine minute debate. There's soooooooo so so so much controversy, misconception, and misinformation about non-vanilla sex, it would take *for-fucking-ever* to discuss and explain each aspect of it, and I'm 97% sure each new fact would magically alert two random people, from whatever political position, to make a blog post about how "problematic" or "disgusting" it is.   BDSM is weird as hell (I don't mean this in a bad way) with tons of different perspectives. Some people into kink see it as a supplement to their sex lives, some can't get off without it (these people have a _fetish_ rather than a kink, according to one definition), and others see it more as a way to explore their spiritual selves and become more connected to their soul and their partner's (or partners') soul(s) than something sexual. Stuff I find sexy or otherwise gratifying might make you feel uncomfortable, interested, angry, horny, or even physically ill, and vice versa, and the way I feel about kinks might be similar or drastically different from how you feel about it. It's all just a big mess of wibbly-wobbly sexy-wexy stuff that I can't really effectively explain with one sentence. Literally the best way to learn about it is to do the research yourself and look at tons of different sources. Not every kinkster believes the same things; not every kinkster is into the same things; not every kinkster feels the same things.  Again, I liked this video and enjoyed the humor and charm that Natalie always brings to her content, and she does mention some good points that are brought up a lot. I just wanted to say something about how complex BDSM, and human sexuality as a whole (some fellow LGBT folks may relate to this), are, and how difficult it is to accurately define something so weird yet natural as human behaviors and mental processes in a short video or a few sentences.
I blame my kink on my biology that makes me want sex, and my Catholic upbringing for making me feel guilty about that desire. So, the end product is that I'm only turned on when I don't have any responsibility over the situation. Seems like a straightforward equation: Catholic Guilt + Sexual Desire = Kink (as the healthiest way to play out the tension so many of us are subject to). I gave up trying to change this long ago. The mechanisms of desire are unconscious and instinctual. Best to just accept oneself and get on with the play!
I don't know and i don't care I just want more videos of contra in leather
"I'm a sissy bitch. I'm a sissy bitch."
Sooo... this is a real thing? "Stop liking what I don't like" extends to... what is this, philosophy? I've never heard anything like this, closest I've gotten is my mom just saying "that's stupid" over and over again, but then one time she rescued me and then we laughed about it and got high and watched ab fab so even that's, like... fuck. People are awful. Can the ice caps melt a little fucking faster please?
Brilliant!
I think they should explain bdsm in sex ed
I love this format but you're just not iron-manning (hate that new usage, btw) the RadFem position against the normalization of BDSM.  They "get" why it's sexy and still have something to say about it.  I think a vice analysis and a virtue ethic adequately describe the radical feminist objections to the treatment of BDSM as merely one of many equally valid modes of sexual interaction.
I'll remember these arguments when I'm explaining why I'm Catholic convert because fucking feminism.  #goddessesareforjackingofftoo #hailmaryqueenoftheuniverse
WOAH 'Bumbridge' is a name with a powerful aura
There shouldnt be a stigma in the first place. And why are people enraged about it when the real chains that hurt us are the chains of the so called "normal" society? That is what should be questioned. The topic of bdsm is actually more what communication is appearently. You should do whatever works without damage, not what is "normal". Want to enable women (and men) . Let them do whatever they want without hypocritical judgement. And it is hypocritical when the praxis of feeling good from pain is very prominent in the christian thematic, make people do the same.
I remember my family getting creeper out because I used to tie myself up as a kid (sparked by a powerful interest in houdini). I also fantasized about getting kidnapped. As a teen I wrote a cringe fan-fic rape fantasy that my mom found and I remember her freaking out "What happened to you?? Did someone hurt you?? Who did it?"   Nothing happened to me at that time, but a few months later I was raped. And I finally told her about it 4 years after the fact. She still misconstrues her suspicion of my kink with her knowledge of my rape  Maybe my rape did make my kink stronger but that's just because of safe, sane, *consensual* that I feel like us lacking in a lot of vanilla relationships
The idea that consent can be dismissed, simply "because, society" is absurd -- yes, there are circumstances where society is compelled to intervene on behalf of people who are deemed incompetent &, therefore, incapable of consent -- & there are certain blanket judgments made, such as "no-one under the age of 21 is capable of handling alcohol" -- but to try to claim that the entirety of grown-ass people who engage in BDSM are denied capacity of consent simply by virtue of "the patriarchy" is mind-bogglingly idiotic -- basically, what they're saying is "feminism means a woman should be able to make her own choices...oh, but in this one area over here?  The one w/ the edgy sexy stuff going on?  Yeah, in that area, somehow, you're just not qualified to decide whether you want to be whipped & chained -- sorry!"  Fuck that noise!  No, BDSM is not "femiinist", anymore that going w/out makeup is feminist, or opening your own door is feminist -- what's feminist is women making their own decisions for themselves, free to make their own mistakes & learn their own lessons -- so BDSM is not feminist, but it is feminist for women to be able to engage in  BDSM, if that's what the fuck they want to do...
It's not feminist and it's not unfeminist. It's just an activity/lifestyle.  Studies have shown that bdsm participants do not have psychological problems, increase rate of child abuse in past, secual assualt, or any treatable mental illness compared to the general population and can lead fully functional life. Man or woman. We just let them be.
My opinion is exactly the same all three of them have
So many plot twists in this episode
The safeword is REEEEEEEEE
So well done
absolutely hilarious and genius at the same time. If you lived in England i would ask you to marry me Sighhhh :-) xx
I love u
5:13 ahhh good times
This channel is a veritable blessing unto the world.
Oh god! It's allllll rushingggg back mannnnn
Whatever happens between consenual adults should not concern us.  Now, this is where it gets tricky. There are two massively underlying problems. First sexual assault. Many people (especially women) who have been sexually assaulted have issues with sex (obviously). This can lead into an area where consent becomes gray. A woman who has been sexually assaulted and/or objectified will have an issue understanding their role in a relationship. My wife has had this issue. At first, she felt like sex was a responsibility of sorts. When I realized this, I reconsidered our "roles". While I do have fetishes, it became my obligation to find what was appropriate. Fortunately, I matured as an individual amd she has bad some recovery. Our time in the bedroom (even with various kinky things) has become different. This is something that needs to be examined and discussed.  Secondly, the pornography industry. Now, Im not saying I am directly against porn (that would be idiotic), what I am against is the poor work conditions. Is labor consenual? In a capitalistic system, no. Therefore, pornography is not necessarily consenual. This is not to say there arent people who actively like being in that industry (even then, I think those people lack some kind of understanding of sexuality). We need to consider people who are beholden to the industry fot negative reasons AND the treatment of people in the porn industry.  I believe feminists MUST be for the legalization of prostitution and pornography in a capitalist system. Through greater legislation, we can better protect the people who find themselves in that situation and even offer assistance to those who are in those industries because of negative reasons.  In theory, a libertarian socialist system would still have some form of prostitution and/or porn merely because humans (and especially sexuality) is complex. This is not the case though. As such, it becomes our duty to help protect individuals from a system that would otherwise harm them one way or the other.
It definitely contradicts feminists views of equality. I understand that you give consent in bdsm but it’s definitely not a good representation to have a man shove his cock down your throat and for him to enjoy that while your submissive.
It’s 5:30am what the fuck am I doing
Damn Natalie, those fishnets are fyre!!!
You cannot separate the unitive act of sexual activity from the procreative act. If you do so, society will suffer severe consequences. America. And Europe. Are suffering from those consequences. America is a heavily medicated open air mental health institution. That includes ContraPoints own psychosis issues.
why am i agreeing with somene in leather bondage clothes
"It's not really your place to question whether an adult woman knows what she wants."  I really wish more people understood this. Nothing like trying to stand up for yourself against critic of your life choices, only to be told that you've been brainwashed/conditioned by outside forces and are incapable of knowing what's best for you or what you really want...  Also, just have to say I adore you. I discovered your channel recently when T1J shouted out your (pure gold) incel video, and I love your content.  Stay amazing. ❤
I have no idea what those abbreviations mean, but I'm almost certain I do not want to know.
Pls...the name if the first song..🙏🏻😅
Sir B B has beautiful hair
I shall take your advice and begin drinking after this.
Wait, is this true? You're not allowed to consent in torture??
this was a good video to watch while i was doing whippets thank you contra
Are rocks feminist? Is Dwayne "The 'Dwayne "The Rock" Johnson' Rock" Johnson feminist?  Respect others' autonomy, provide relevant information, and let them do their thing.
To me, it's really simple. If you believe that you should be subjugated in sex because you are a woman, then you're oppressed: it's not what you really want, it's what patriarchal ideology tells you you should be doing. On the other hand, if your kinks are not something you justify by your gender, then feminism has nothing to do with it; it's just something you like for whatever reason.
<3
I really love your videos where you play different characters having a conversation.
I can only imagine the neighbor that overhears Contra filming this shit, as they're just bringing in the groceries or walking the dog....
Welp now I've got a load of bdsm content in my recommendeds.  No regrets.
The comment sections are mostly really smart and funny , it's quite refreshing.
I think it's my favorite episode so far. You're amazing.
nice dialectic!
I see both points. As a responsible adult, you need to ask yourself why you are the way you are. It applies to everything, really - not just BDSM. But asking yourself why you are the way you are doesn't magically turn you into something else, _and neither should it._ I'm not saying that I don't see the danger of reinforcing old (or even creating new) harmful social patterns in BDSM - but I don't think BDSM necessarily _has_ to be that. As a matter of fact, I don't even think BDSM between a male Dom and a female sub necessarily has to be that. I actually know submissive BDSM practitioners who see their submission as a liberation from socially enforced rules and norms. It may also be true that "consent" isn't a magical word that makes everything that happens okay (best nonsexual example: "voluntary" wage labor under capitalism) - but what other criteria _do_ we have, then?  With regards to past trauma as a factor, in my case, I... had some bad experiences in my childhood. Did this event influence my kinks? I'm actually not entirely sure if it did, but if so, it's also not at all clear _how_ exactly. It was also very clearly not the _only_ influence that shaped my desires, and the others, as far as I'm aware of them, are a lot more benign. But even if it was an influence, so what? Am I supposed to deny who I am and what I desire _now_ just because something bad that happened to me two and a half decades ago might have been one of the uncountable possible causes of what I am? I honestly don't think what I do today _reproduces_ what happened to me in any way. I also don't think _denying_ who you are is a way to a better, less oppressive society, and it's definitely not a way to give me closure. If anything, demanding that kind of denial effectively amounts to even more oppression, just in a different direction.  Your conclusion is... interesting. I don't know if rational debate and introspection really are pointless, but I think we should do them even if they are.  Maybe _particularly_ if they are.
I want this pink wig.
"how do you respond to that" > slaps tiddies with riding crop yeah that's how you respond to that
Honestly as long there is consent and understanding as what each other wants and dont want between individuals when comes BDSM . actually I would  say consent and understanding in sex in general . wish it was taught in schools
I feel strangely aroused by this. Is that normal?
I've have had a boner that makes me think before. Jeez.
BDSM is the flagship of the kink community, which builds itself around existing outside societal expectations.  Not only is it feminist, it's everything-ist. It's a big middle finger to every "-archy" and "-ocracy" known to man
bounced on my boy's dick to this amirite
Was cockbane doing eyeball Morse code at the beginning?
<3
"Sometimes it's better to just get drunk."
I have a couple theories about BDSM.  One being that it is a person's preferred sensory experiencing.  The second being able to process past pain with physical pain in a safe environment.
You can come for free at home hahahaha
Damn Natalie, you must have had some props budget for all the gear in this video, surely you didn't just have all this kink gear just laying around...  Excellent video as always, I'm surprised it only now came up in my recommends.
5:20 ...How've I never seen this?
have i just been turned on by a youtuber reciting patreons?   of course i have
You're awesome!
I know I'm a real adult because I always giggle at the name Abigail Cockbane
You're the Youtube Plato this world needs.
Huh. How come she and Lindsay both do the "I'm fine. I'm fine. I'm FINE! I'M... fine... thing?
one clue Rapists don't use safewords.
Interesting points. I agree that people got to respect the choices others have made for themself. As long as they don't hurt people who didnt consent.
I love your videos! Funny and smart
Dayum contra you got like legs for weeks.
That being said I still love your videos and will love this one too.
I had no clue this movie existed. Now I have to watch it (godD@mnit). And then I will go to bed.
That reminded me that Gorean litterature is so much better.
I'm drunk and commenting on a YouTube video, so I guess that means I paid attention. I'm fully aware that this video is much older than you want to be publicized, but look fam that's life.
Drunk. Leaving comment on YouTube video. Is good video. :3
What is this?
*gooooooooooooooorb*
Super In love with your channel. Please keep doing more!
It's quite simple - if child was beaten and "punished" physically/psychologically, in most cases it will keep and repeat that behavior towards his partner/children.
drunk leaving comment here:  questioning choices leads to dark places where you can arrive at all choices are irrelevant since they are consequences of social cultural whatevers which in turn basically renders all life obsolete, or worse. do what you want, dont force people into it, but keep in mind that mere suggestion may come as forcing as to some people, so do suggest with subtlety, tread carefully, and be ready for rape accusations which may be true in some cases, oh lord i wish everyone had vanilla sex.
THIRD VIEW: It's a psychological dysfunction NOT brought about by society, but by personal  psychological problems that have to be addressed individually. Perhaps a lack of personal worth in the man OR woman who choose to engage in such behavior, or perhaps a desire to be comforted by a dominator or dominatrix. It's not a coincidence that people everywhere fall into this behavior. It's not a matter of groups, it's a matter of individuals.
HEY LISTEN, COCKBANE -Prepare to have your butthole ripped open- wait, wrong video, sorry  BDSM activities are nowhere near the same thing as whatever Soviet era Russian goulag-esque torture you're imagining; honestly, my response to your statements about "consent" is that... yeah, consent kind of _is_ the factor that makes it okay. Like, being choked in a back alley by a drug addict high on acid and who's convinced you're a time travelling alien come to take his skin and wear it over your own is generally considered "not okay", illegal even. However, being choked by -contra- _unnamed dominant person_ because it was something you previously agreed you would like her to do while you have the ability to, at any time, tell her you feel uncomfortable would like to stop, I assume is generally considered "okay". The difference is the context in which the violent action is performed, and consent is a large part of that context.  Additionally, and I know this will probably get me labelled as the anti-christ or something, but I think ultimate radical kill-all-men feminist cockbane's arguments are, uh... they're sort of, anti-feminist? It's just that... one thing I feel the concept of a patriarchal society _takes away_ (historically speaking) from me as a woman is my right to consent in the first place. In real life society, the specific right that has been taken away is my right to say "no", but I'm sort of getting the vibe like cockbane is swinging way too far in the opposite direction and wants to take away my right to say "yes". Both sides are taking away my right to -want contra to dress me up like Tabby, hold me down and tell me I'm a good girl before plunging her tongue down my th- I mean, my right to consent to whatever I want... and I don't really like either of those possibilities. It's like on one side I have a fussy dad telling me we're eating pizza tonight and there's nothing I can do about it, but on the other side I have a fussy mum telling me I'm going to eat a salad tonight because it's for my own good. You're both still being controlling assholes who won't listen to me when I say all I want is some fucking chicken nuggets. Now if you'll excuse me, as my fetishes are apparently shaped by trauma, I guess I'll go shove a chicken nugget up my ass.  God, I just realised I'm probably going to press play and contra will instantly repeat literally everything I just said, but more eloquently. Look. I'm too far in to quit now. Oh, also, I know I'm arguing against a fictional character, but the thing is, that character represents real ideologies that actual humans believe, so I'm more arguing against the entire TERF ideology in general which Abigail is a representative of.
this made me want to be dominated by sir beatrix
You should do an asmr video haha
These are my favorite degenerate things ♫
You're the only one that makes my head tingle when you whisper in that ASMR way.
I am a feminist and I never heard by feminsts this clues like the lady in the right with pink hair lol The opposite feminists supports every person out there to be sexually free without opression as long as there is cosent. Οnly rape is a bad thing, not something that you want. Fisrt time I see these radical side of feminism, I think hat is perhups second wave not htird wave
i feel like sometimes modern feminism, especially on places like tumblr, teachers girls to reclaim things that are literally just what men want. like wear makeup, its powerful! and Do It For Yourself. i mean im not gonna act like i dont have interests that come from social pressures. when it comes to kink, i am warey of anything that accepts rape and beating fantasies. for me personally, trauma has made me too guilty to show my body in public in a way men might find desirable. and it goes both ways, since i know other trauma victims who have become very into kink. anyway daddy kinks are weird and you should do a video on traditional feminity in relationship to feminism. sincerely, someone who thinks too much to have real opinions.
You need to be in pictures - excellent! (y)
See bdsm is an act.  It can be feminist and it can be not feminist.  If you agreed to bdsn because you were afraid of loosing your abusive man when he asked to spice up the sex life or he leaves you,  this is not feminist.  When ylu have had an actual discussion about wants and desires and find a nice middle ground with your trusted partner or partners,  i dont see how this isnt feminist.  Bdsm cant be inherently opressive or empowering.  Its not an either or.  I think its mostly feminist since it empowers men and women sexualy,  but it can be a result of fear or abuse. But marital rape exists that doesnt make all sex in a relationship bad right?
I think when kinksters say "it's between two consenting adults," they have a point; but they never keep it between two consenting adults. Younger and younger women are exposed to the idea that sexual submission is good, and I think the weight of that lies primarily on liberal feminist's shoulders.
.
you are seriously one of the smartest and hilarious people on youtube, cracking up at every video!
it wouldn't have occurred to me that a video with this topic could make laugh that hard that many times, thanks for that interesting fantasy debate
yo this is a good video but "locked up in chains and forced to do something" is a partially inaccurate and reductive view of sex trafficking. somethings trafficked peoples do consent in name, but name only. for example, they might be forced to enter an unsafe, unregulated, and illegal sex work industry because they need the money and there is no other way to get it, and then have that weakness exploited by someone else. that isn't to say that people can't choose to do sex work as just a job, just that when they cannot quit the job for one reason or another and their employer can therfore subjugate them to whatever horrible working conditions they want.   if you'll notice, alot of american jobs under capitalism bear a striking resemblance to this definition of trafficking. (although, i could be getting some things wrong. either way, human trafficking is more complicated than that. good vid, though!)
Ms Cockbane, hahahaha love it.
*Fans Self*
HI
omfg that blinking had me in tears
As a lesbian, I would never want to actually have sex with a man, but I wouldn't mind dominating one. In fact, I'd rather dominate a man than a woman. It may have to do with social constructs because I'm sick of being seen as lesser than because I'm a woman and person some men like to be dominated by women because they are sick of being expected to be dominant themselves. Personally, I think people should be able to do whatever they want sexually as long as both the involved parties consent and it doesn't have anything to do with people who don't consent. I've heard a lot of stories from people where engaging in some BDSM actually helped them work through some of their psychological issues but, of course, it isn't for everyone just like being gay or straight isn't for everyone. We should all try to not concern ourselves too much with what other people feel like doing in bed together.
It's kinda weird that we only talk about the masochist's point of view, and how it's okay to want to be hurt as long as it's safe and there's consent. But we never talk about why someone would get sexual pleasure from hurting other people. Is it harmless? Or is it giving an abuser a """politically correct""" way to abuse people? And is their pleasure in dominating and hurting others also originated from society?  I don't really know tbh. Did you know that there's people on the deep web that wanna get eaten by cannibals? Is being a cannibal okay as long as the person youre eating consented to it? Is Their pleasure a choice or is it society again? What kinda internalized social prejudice would lead to someone wanting to eat people or be eaten? Maybe we're just a bit fucked up? Is being a bit fucked up okay? Or is it something harmful that we should move on from eventually?  I'm not trying to condone or demonize anything btw, i'm just genuinely unsure what to think about this. I think both characters in the video had some good and some bad arguments
This was clever and funny. Great video - I know I am a bit late. I'll keep watching.
This is a road to perdition, not happiness.  Just turn around, it leads nowhere.  You feel like shit because your system is truthfully telling you the truth about what you're doing: you are humiliating yourself.  Just don't. This is not what sex is about.
I mean, most of my kinks are DEFINITELY, *without doubt* results of severe emotional and abuse-related traumas I experienced when i was younger. In fact, I suspect my sexuality may be the result of those traumas as well, and as a result I don't take mono-sexuals (who claim to only be attracted to a single gender) very seriously. I don't argue with them about it though, don't worry.  Anyway, whether my kinks derive from trauma or not, it is absolutely not the business of any self-important feminist to tell me whether or not my preferences are ""problemaaaaatic."" I'm not even dominant, so I definitely am not "holding women down" in any way. Ms. Cockbane needs to fuck off and mind her own god damn business. She is the perfect picture of why the anti-feminist movement exists, misguided though much of it may be: she, like an unfortunate number of mainstream feminists, can't keep her social-justice-dick in her pants, and constantly barges into other peoples' spaces to tell them they are wrong for living or existing as they please.
as long as it's consentual then i don't see the problem with it or how it is anti feminist, there are people who are strong women who are strongly for equality and other feminist ideals but when they get home thay like to be submissive to someone who they trust, it doesn't make them any less of a feminist or less of a woman or mean that they support male supremacy, it just means that they like kinky shit. plus as said in the video, you get submissive men and lesbian women and gay men and you get dominant women, lesbian women and gay men. most people who critisise bdsm don't seem to have ever do it or even spoken to those who are into it.
For someone who repeatedly decries the value of reason and philosophy you sure go out of your way to include a lot of reasonable arguments in your videos. You may have turned your back on academia, but admit it, you are still a philosopher at heart.
Nothing to see here, just the greatest video on this eternal hellhole known as the Internet.
I'm really relating to John Jane Jackson with that "I hate my job"
"All choice is an illusion and we should just give up on the idea of freedom altogether"  YASSS GURL
three words that help...  kinkphobia = the idea that kink equals abuse. that  kink desire is something filthy and pathologised that has to be fixed. vanila-normativity = the idea that the vanila desire is the purest and most liberating form of desire. kerf = kink exclusionary feminist
Fuck, it's not that long since I quit drinking...
COCKBANE RETURNS
I agreed with almost all of what Abigail said. For a radical feminist character she could have been a lot more extreme. Her perspective wasn't really that out there.
7:40 start rant of my life philosophy
0:49 I laughed so hard I woke my demented 97-year old grandma sleeping in the room above and across the house from me
I'm drunk and leaving a comment on a YouTube video! Love you, COntra :)
This is video was really enjoyable and made me think about it . But I still do have opinion that there nothing wrong with having a kink .and I'm so glad you show little how kinks do happen and that situation can have infect on person. Hell it happen to me ..  but I didn't let it get me down hell im proud of my kink ! And I'm proud of binging a disgusting vore fag ! ...Yeha I'm really missed up . But I'm glad I found your channel. I do  wish see you debate some of the athletes community ,or scripted community ! Because hell some of your vids did change my mind on somethings ! So keep on doing the great work ~
Now creating multiple characters in split screen. *Clicks like within first 5 seconds and opens patreon tab*
The lack of critical understanding of desires manifested out of systemic oppression and abuse seem, to me, the real problem, rather than the desires themselves. Living out a fantasy c o u l d be bad if it contributes to a belief that oppression and abuse are fine and normal, but if we can separate the idea of something being desirable and something being normal or acceptable, then we could actively oppose in public that which we fantasize about in private. This can be tricky business, of course, and it does take a lot of work. However kinksters seem far more willing to engage with the sources of desire and actively consider the appropriateness of their behavior in the broader society than people who have normative sex. Frankly, I'm more concerned about the straight, cis couple that only does missionary, but never even considers the way that male-female power dynamics influence their sexual behavior.
Can we all agree ContraPoints has AMAZING ARMS??!!
You're my favorite YouTuber
I'm into BDSM and Im also feminist (tho I define myself more as an egalitarian) Yanno I think it's hypocritical of feminists to tell me what I should and shouldn't like. How is that different than misogynists telling me how I should enjoy sex? And if you think about it... it's incredibly misogynistic of feminists to act like they are the ultimate deciders of on the topic of female sexuality. I'm a very strong willed independent woman... but when I'm in the bedroom, I like to give my control and my will to my partner whom I love, trust and who has earned my submission.  In giving him my power, I feel completely liberated because I no longer have the struggle, responsibility, the stress that being in control brings me. I can just let it all go. And it totally turns me on to be completely dominated by someone who loves me dearly and treats me like a goddess outside of the bedroom
Amen and Cheers!!!!
Contra bringing back the dialectic. <3
Why Abigail is cute (the Terf) at 0:07
Ok, I didnt even finished the video yet, but holy shit!! You make so such good points for either side.  Sir dominatrix says something and Im like _"Hum? That's a good point"_ and then Cockbane responds and Im like _"Oh, shit! Another good point"._ Damn, that's like, so cool.
A great kink channel to check out is Evie Lupine
I’m a lesbian (who does have past trauma) who gets a real kick out of beating my girlfriend (with no past trauma) with a flogger because it makes her feel good (plus it’s not about sex)! If she didn’t like how it felt and didn’t want to be part of it, I wouldn’t enjoy it or want to do it. My choice, her choice, we are still feminist!
When you said "I'm a sissy bitch", I went squiggly. That's close to home ;)
''Adult'' here is a very interesting word. In the US it's considered the age of 18, in Japan the age of 20. Since the brain is not fully developed until about 25, I am far more comfortable with 20/21 being the age of adulthood than 18. I worry about what the 18 year olds will be doing with themselves once being a sex worker is legalized. 7 years left until full brain development is massive.
I was having BDSM fantasies from the age of 8 or 9. I hadn't been exposed yet to any kind of pornography, it just appeared naturally. I don't know what could have influenced me, so I think it's just a natural inclination for some.
But like... I don't think it makes sense to turn this into a gender thing? It's not like only women can be subs and only men can be doms. There are a lot of sadist chicks as well as masochist guys, so why does it concern feminism?
Inner goddess, that's that Fifty Shades Shit.
wondering what the fuck is wrong with me is enough I don't need to worry about whether my sex life is feminist.
Why psychoanalyze fetishes anyway?, I'm personally full of fetishes (not bdsm) and i dont keep wondering if they're from "the patriarchy" or something. I agree there's some toxic ass people in BDSM communities but that doesn't mean all of them have had terrible memories as a child or that they're the patriarchy. I might be beinf reactionary here but i personally have a lot of conection to kinks and i dont see why it would matter for me to constantly check if its feminist or not.
Watching this video like "well of course all choice is an illusion, and duh we should give up on free will" 😂
'My name is Lady Bumbridge.' I fucking died. I love your videos. You're the most intelligent, urbane, well-read gender essayist on this platform. Also, you're charming & hot. I love how you don't claim to be a font of all life's answers while being incredibly wise and self-examining. Love it.
your tangents and asides in these videos are super relatable.
Contra, normally I'm a big fan of your videos but I feel like this one came too close to making fun of childhood abuse and childhood sexual abuse. This might be my own bias but I feel like it would have been nice to --at the very least-- have some sort of warning about the specific nature of the jokes.
I would like to recommend the book "The S&M Feminist" by Clarisse Thorn to anyone interested in that topic. :)
I'm not a radfem but I'm still kink critical, because consent doesn't give you a free pass to abuse. We need to think to ourselves about why certain things might turn us on, because in some cases our kinks are rooted in psychological problems or child abuse, and are therefore unhealthy to engage with.   Also "raceplay" and "ageplay" are disgusting and don't deserve to exist.
I didn't know this was an issue.
is this a dude LUL wtf
Nice asmr at the end 😊
So - is Sir Beatrix seeing anyone...?
I have a fetish and I'm pretty sure it comes from traumas.
Goddamnit this channel is amazing.
Unfortunately my knowledge of kink is limited to erotic lit on Amazon, but it has let me dig into my own kinks and I realized for me at least, submissiveness is about care and nurture - iI've discovered a connection to age play, specifically the dd/lg dynamic and littles.
I made the mistake of trying to drink water while playing this video dear lord is this amazing to watch.
Im drunk heres a commend on a youtube video
have to agree w/ cockbane here lol
Contra, I love you. I just wanted to point out that using the word "dark" in a negative way is harmful for black people. Society equates darkness with evil, bad, dangerous, and sees black people as all those things. So consider using phrases with words other than dark. Examples:  "I'm going through a heavy time in my life" "it's okay to explore your deep desires"  "the world is a bleak place"
What peeps do in their own home is no ones business.
Cockbane for President.
dominatrix for the win!
I don't know who Free Will is, but can someone please let him out of his cage already?
Feminism: Its what a woman does.
Whelp I watched this hoping to some how magically reconcile being a het/cis male and a dom with being an anarchist, and the whole all hierarchy is bad so of course patriarchy is bad thing follows, but like no such luck. I'm just sort of turning in circles with it at this point. Good video though and really fun gimmick
you really have a talent at writing these kind of scenes.
Abigail got really descriptive there at the end. lol  "Awakening my inner goddess" love it
Personally, I think that in discussion of the ethics of sex, consent shouldn't be the end-all-be-all, but instead, the bare minimum.  Instead of just asking whether someone consents to masochistic sex, we should ask whether it makes them happy.  If they're consenting to masochistic sex because it makes them happy, that's fine.  If they're consenting to masochistic sex because of their partner's expectations of them, and it actually causes them suffering, that's not fine.  If they're consenting to masochistic sex because of self-loathing that makes them feel compelled to harm themselves, that's horrible.  I'm not saying that we should criminalize bdsm or anything, but I think that people with sadism fetishes owe it to their partner to ask whether they're doing something pleasurable for both parties, instead of just assuming anything is ethical as long as someone lets you do it to them.
That final message is far too accurate for a YouTube video, hah.
BDSM is anti-feminist because it is illegal in the most feminist country: Sweden, unless it is very mild.
I loved this non-conclusion conclusion
brb putting collar on :3
Lol wut
You Can Cum For Free at Home: The Case Against Prostitution
Contra is nothing if not hilarious
This video was a wonderful mix of comedy and a message. As a kinkster, I appreciated this.
im perfectly happy with being flogged / spanked / bound etc. I think its fun and I reach astronomical levels of euphoria Being on my knees whilst someone fucks my face. Everything else goes out the window, i dont care about politics or or injustices or whos been elected or that everything is suddenly wrong /racist etc.  I think of it like going to work: You leave your problems with your home life at home and when you go home you leave your work at work.  Bringing stress into that time/place devoted to  'grown-uppy stuff' is just gonna spoil the mood and taint/poison  the whole atmosphere and feelijgs  assocoated.  I like things to get to the point where im brought to tears by the hand that smacks my ass/thighs until long past the numbing point or the flogger on my back/ass/whwtever. thats fun for *me* and may be the exact opposite for others.   with that in mind, i can see why modern femmynism and its flirtatious affairs with communal-based identity politics does not approve with an *individual* and their choice to be submissive to whomever. A group firmly entrenched and singing the praises of group-think through group think and participation would, if im not mistaken, view the aforementioned proclivities with disdain and disgust. It would be seen as a type of degenerative 'thing' and dismissed  for a myriad of reasons based , in the end , on the individuals tastes within the group.  Funny thing is, in Soviet times, such degenerate acts were viewed as sick and perverse, as Soviet society was *very* conservative. People would look doen on such proclivities as yet more 'proof' that  decadence born of western capitalism corrupts and poisons the brain. 
I lost it at 4:22.
LOL  good stuff
I'd love to see you and Brittany Simon chat!
I feel like in feminism land, the answer someone is going to give about this depends on how they feel about choice feminism. The same kind of person who looks at a woman choosing to wear hijab because they're Muslim and it's their religion/culture and sees that as antifeminist is going to see something like a female being a sub as antifeminist.  I don't think that a female being a domme over males or being a sub or any other preference about BDSM is inherently feminist or antifeminist, though. I know feminists and antifeminists who are into BDSM (unsurprisingly, antifeminist male doms are pretty common). It just is what it is, and people are going to project what their politics and morality are onto how they interact with BDSM, but they're not into BDSM because of those politics.
This was my first video and I LOVE it
The notion that societal pressures cause us to have harmful, self-deprecating desires which we wouldn't otherwise have, calling into question our ability to consent to the degradation, is an interesting one. I wonder if the "Ms. Cockbain"s of the world would take that argument further and suggest that Muslim women should not be permitted to wear hijabs, because their desire to do so stems from an oppressive culture. Conversely, I wonder if the anti-SJWs, who would argue women should have the right to subjugate themselves in the bedroom despite the cultural pressures that may have influenced their desire to do so, would extend that reasoning to Muslim women, arguing that however their desires came to be, they should have the right to pursue them, even if that means to drape themselves from head to toe. In order to remain logically consistent, both would have to come to those respective conclusions regarding Islam, conclusions which are atypical of those particular ideological camps.
This channel is fucking amazing. The fact that I found it only earlier today is a crime and I should be arrested (and punished??)
I love your videos and maybe this comment isn't relevant to the points you're making in this one because you're operating from the perspective of consent being full and enthusiastic, but isn't there space for a non-radical feminist critique of BDSM as it plays out in the broader sexual culture? All of the power to the Sir Beatrixes of the world, but I do think there is a good amount of pressure for women to consent to men who want to experiment with power play, especially since BDSM has entered mainstream discourse in recent years.  Which is to say I don't think BDSM and feminism are necessarily incongruent, and maybe this is just a complaint about the issues we have around consent, but it seems to me that there is at least some space for a critique of the way power play and sex can sometimes come together under the pressure of expectations, especially since women are often conditioned to perform submissiveness.
Can I fart your stockings?
Think that last sketch kind of undermined a lot of what you had already said :/
How come the bondage character had your normal voice and the feminist character had a cartoon fun-hating feminist voice?   Anyway I was a tiny bit disappointed that you didn't have an answer to this question, but I was more disappointed that you kind of presented the idea that the question is unanswerable, even if you tried to cover it up with jokes about alcohol or whatever.
there are at least 3 moments in this vid that it's almost 100% porn
5:12 this breakdown made me realize I have a fetish for innocent girls that turn naughty, thxxx
You stole my ASMRginity, you rogue!  P.S. I'm actually quite pleased. I'd figured I was capable, since I've felt similar before, but nothing I watched was triggering it.
5:15 may or may not have given me a boner.
Insert very bad, very sweary words here.  In bold. This bloody video may be what pushes me into enabling you and these videos.  I just gotta go find money from somewhere.  Of all the goddam Gateway Drugs there are to Patreon, I gotta go get a girl-crush on a white dude talking to themself in a 1bed/1bath.  Next I'll be funding bloody T1J.    Humpf.
You had me at 'You can come for free at home - The case against prostitution'. Great video :)
This dude is mad creepy! He looks a little like Steven crowder!
I looove your content
Oh my god, you're the leftist non-pansexual version of Roger the Alien
This reminds me of A Dirty Shame.
As a feminist, I had very negative views on BDSM, and was generally uncomfortable with it, until I met and got close to someone who was into it, then talked to some other people, and now I believe it's acceptable under certain conditions. Ideally, I believe, all BDSM-practicing couples would switch, at least infrequently (on who's doing the domming and who's doing the subbing during any given BDSM session/scene). Overall, the SSC model ("safe, sane and consensual") is a good start. Nothing that's going to land someone in the hospital, or cause permanent iinjury, is allowed, nor should be legal. Everything must be thoroughly and comprehensively discussed before and after. The strictest standards of affirmative informed consent are to be observed, safe words assigned, aftercare provided, etc. No sexist, racist, bigoted discourse/practices. Finally, I think it's reasonable for doms to be scrutinized more than subs, men more than women, and heterosexuals more than homosexuals.  I still haven't made up my mind on the question of 24/7 BDSM relationships, as opposed to mere BDSM sex.
i see kink in the same way i see drag. sure, neither look great to those not a part of their respective cultures, but their worth to society and the Discourse™ should be measured in what their existences expose about sex and gender
I'm here after seeing you talk to Blaire. So I was expecting a squeaky, triggered [insert least-offensive equivalent of "trans-trender"] just regurgitating the standard lines. But I might I like you. This video was good. The "you can come for free at home" part had me lol'ing all like WTF? A sense of humor? A joke where the punchline isn't "fuck white men"? No way. It's really depressing that we have to be so divided over a few different opinions like it makes us enemies. The kind of people i want to hang out with are actually a lot more like you than Ben Shapiro or whoever your alt-right/conservative poster boy is
I'm not gay but I would fuck all three of you.
The Kinkster is such a philosopher, I like them!
Ahh the kind of weirdo I can get behind :p subbed!
No...  What?  Holy shit you do not understand what feminism means.  The two are on entirely different axes.  Is soccer feminist?  Are apples feminist?  Are spruce trees more or less feminist than ferns?  Fucking lunatics.....
so I found this after finding a link to the "what is gender" vid, im very , very confused
BDSM discourse is a touchy subject for me because critical discussion of BDSM culture is my kink.
SO FUCKING UGLY
Gross.
SO FUCKING GROSS.
"Well, Patriatchy™ affects everyone..." Lol, love this video.
Fantàstic!
SEX POSITIVE QUEER INTERSECTIONAL SOCIAL ANARCHIST FEMINISM FOREVER
Cockbanes fantasy really turned me on ( ͡° ͜ʖ ͡°)
I used to be really uncomfortable with BDSM. Not necessarily the bedroom acts, but when people decide to live their entire lives with that dynamic. How could someone be okay with another person dictating what they can and cannot do; can and cannot wear. 50 Shades also enraged me, because I thought it romanticized and glorified an extremely abusive relationship... Then, I started reading blogs about being a good Christian wife. You know, the ones that talk about how if your husband is unhappy, it must have been something you've done, and gives tips about submitting yourself to your husband. At least the BDSM community is open about the power dynamics and doesn't hide behind "God divined order" and "equal, but different roles."  I also came to realize that 50 Shades is just an erotic fantasy and grown women can read this without being unduly influenced. Being angry about it was probably more of a reflection of my impressionability at the time than that of the women who read those books.
good lord this should be illegal.  Guys cant be this pretty.
I think this is my new favorite.
I have a BDSM fantasy about whipping with my belt my faggot ass millennial son who dropped out of collage when he realized pursuing philosophic ideas at the PHD level takes emotional and intellectual depth and went on youtube to use his narcotic narcosis to make himself look hip to all his faggoty ass friends.  do you have any idea where I can find someone like that?
I hope you never adopt any children
I say this with love, but... As someone familiar with this subject this video is bad I learned nothing! Also while I'm sure it was intended as a joke, the last bit does reinforce the things the Radfem is saying. Which is actually a jumping off point for a whole 'nother topic, about how BDSM and kink in general are often used to work through or contextualize trauma. In fact, no discussion on whether or not BDSM is feminist is really complete without discussion of the safeword, which gives the ultimate power completely to the submissive (or the dominant, though most people rarely focus on that. "Tea cup, tea cup, sorry, I don't feel comfortable doing this to you" is perfectly valid). This video feels like it ended before it really even started.
rad-fem contrapoints is kinda hot :o
best video so far.
Hot.
BDSM isn't Feminist, but not because it's sexist and oppresses women. It's because BDSM is sexy and Feminism, while many other things, is about the biggest boner killer there is. It best not understood from a Feminist perspective, as is repeatedly shown by the god awful things Feminists say about it.
I love you.
I cracked up at this.  I cringed a bit at the straw feminist ya made, though I don't think I've ever met a person that identifies as feminist and denies the freedom of choice.  I'm all about  being feminist and supporting healthy BDSM and peoples choices to explore their interests!  If I had anything to say tbh, it is the possible discussion of some people in the BDSM community that don't following the rules of consent and defend their actions as being 'part of the norm' in BDSM. Though maybe that concern is unfounded. I don't participate in the community much to know, so heeey- cool to see a video talkin' bout what's going on there.
Please include more close-up shots of your bookshelves - I am unable to read the titles clearly enough to properly judge your intellectual merit.
I have one question: why can't I watch your video on white nationalism? Did you block it? Because it says 'It's not available in your country'.  I'm from Poland
Yay, you're still here. :) I'm back after a two year hiatus. So glad you're still going. <3
I think the answer to which side is right boils down to a simple question:  Is it pro-feminist or anti-feminist to argue that a woman shouldn't be able to indulge in her sexual fantasy, especially because of her being a woman?
Apparently suggesting that BDSM and sex  can be therapeutic is grounds for being banned from Reddit's Gamerghazi page...when I was replying to in the thread discussing this very video.  I first ever Reddit post and I guess my last.
This is my favorite video in the world right now
good video fam xx
why does abigail blink so much?
LOL. How do you manage to be so spot on and really funny at the same time? :)
...Something about libtards ruining the country...
I am soooo happy I found your videos! This might not have happened if it weren't for Chez Lindsay's livestream! You were so eloquent with your words (and cute..) that I grew curious and decided to follow the link to your page... at first your thumbnails had me confused since the cross dressing didn't make sense but I decided to take a dip anyways since you were well spoken and engaging on the internet persona stream... and I'm so, so glad I did. I can't wait for more now that I've watched all but 3 of your videos. Both hilarious/informative! <3 Also so in love with that fact that you're so comfortable with your masculinity, it's extremely refreshing.
This was so well researched and written
"In the new Millenium, I think we will all be insane." (something along those lines!) -Angels in America. Yayyyyyy!
I really can't get behind the relation of torture to masochism. Torture is completely unwilling and controlled only by the torturer.   The ironic- and often not mentioned- side to masochism is that often it's very controlling/dominant and needy. Masochists want a very specific pain usually in a very specific region and have the authority to concentrate the pain where an actual torture victim would not. Also the more obvious point is a torture victim isn't enjoying themselves.  As an example: we would differentiate between a batterer who beats their spouse and a sado-masochistic relationship because the masochist in question would have asked to be beaten directly, in a specific bodily area and will likely ask again. A battered victim will never ask, is beaten is any bodily region available and only returns to a relationship hoping /not/ to be beaten.
Laughing!
I loved this.
The title of this video should be "Man badly explains why some feminists are against BDSM"
I just came here after seeing you in Lindsay's (Ellis) stream yesterday, and I am not disappointed! I'm definitely sharing this video with a few of my feminist friends who also happen to be into BDSM.
This is fantastic.
I make it a rule to watch your videos drunk. Wanna make luv to your body. bye bye :D
Hey man, you've made some interesting points here, but I'm a little disappointed you left out the use of safewords and their importance in making BDSM a safe and enjoyable practice. Any good, responsible dom, male or female, will tell you that there has to be a lot of trust between partners in any scene; a sub trusts their dom to stop when they're told to, and a dom trusts their sub to make them stop before doing anything to them that could be harmful or traumatic. That's the thing that really draws the distinction between safe, consensual play and sexual abuse.
This is completely unrelated but I just wanna say your eyebrows are amazing...
How do I become a beautiful girl?
"ass worship"
How did I miss this in my subscription feed?... I started out sympathizing with the liberal feminist when first exposed to feminism because I am a disgusting piece of shit myself but then began sympathizing more with rad fem stuff later on as I got more into historical/dialectical materialism/marxism, base/superstructure shit. Most people get really defensive it seems because they feel they're being personally attacked or something so don't ever really listen  or try to understand arguments made by more radical feminists.
With the gimp mask on it looks more like a dude
I get why people would like to be on the receiving end but why would you ever want to hurt someone else? I know that even if I knew my partner would like it, it would make me cringe. What is the psychology behind being a dom?
I know this isnt the point of the video but GOOD GOD you're sexy
For some reason, when Abigail talked about BDSM fitting the UN definition of torture I thought about Davis Aurini citing the UN definition of genocide when talking about interracial cuckoldry. You figure.
I don't like this video so I'm going to share it with my enemies
I've been down the rabbit hole of third wave feminism's more radical ideologies, and although I have reeled myself back from it somewhat I don't think all of what is discussed is necessarily untrue. Culture, media and social "norms" does influence gender role and shape our perceptions of what is acceptable and not, sometimes to the detriment of certain demographics. The patriarchal structure (social and institutional) of Western society is still a thing, even though we have moved by leaps and bounds towards a more egalitarian system.  Now in having said that, "The Patriarchy" keeps on getting used as some sort of bogeyman to explain any and all discrepancies that occur between men and women, on both a macro and micro scale, to the detriment of actual progress or certain freedoms/responsibilities. It's also worrying that some branches of feminism are moving away from the core liberal principle of choice and consent. It's one thing to be critical of social trends and choices (I'm all for that) but to make false equivalencies or, worst yet, outright want to ban certain practices or thoughts for "the greater good" gets a little worrying at times.   Anyways. Good video as always, I enjoyed it, thanks!
I do believe both sides you presented have some points. What I missed from the video - and many debates like this between feminists I've seen in the past - was a Behavioral psychology type approach.  The human mind can be surprisingly weak and open to influence. Think about typical social psychology type pranks where many people often think they'd never fall for it, yet they do (the smoke coming from under the door in a job interview where everyone just ignores it comes to mind). Similarly, personal experience with cults has shown me that, even though from the outside one might say they'd never join a cult, up close, it just isn't that easy. The latter oftentimes regardless of personal characteristics such as education, class, etc.   This is what drives for example a great deal of the suspicion I personally have toward kinksters who live the relationship 24/7. As a society we need to develop proper mechanisms to create freedom within a justifiable order, especially for younger people undergoing puberty and finding a sexual identity.  This reluctance in radical (libertarian in the European sense) circles for drawing up boundaries is more and more scientifically untenable.  On the other hand, there are arguments your radfem used (eg referring to ideological  hegemony or "we don't really make all the choices we make by ourselves")  that could be transplanted onto the hijab/burqa debate. I've  seen it happen at least once or twice, but never by radfems. I've actually  never met radfems who would argue those points as you did, usually these came from liberal feminists, and not radicals (maybe it's the ocean between us)... Obviously I understand the reluctance and anxiety liberal and radical people feel at the point I mentioned above (culture, religion,etc.) to want to draw such boundaries as a society...  Open - yet still well-connected- communities (so at the meso level of society) might be an answer to the often individualized approach or macro-perspective thinking takes in this regard. And in thát regard I guess it was good at least to see several people talking to each other in your video.  Stick these three together in an open commune that is itself part of a well operating medium-sized community, that'll solve their problems!   There you go, midly drunken comment.
really good videos, keep it up
am i the only one who doesn't understand the contrapoints expanded universe
Im also wondering, where the mind-reading level of certainty of Ms Cockbane about the reasons why it is pleasurable to someone engange in masochism. Its not just "general" men or lesbians, its also patriarchal men, men of considerable power, who enjoy engaging in this past time. Ask professional dominatrixes, thats a huge part of their market, not just a footnote one can handwave away. So Ms Cockbane cant say theres anything unnatural about it :). Yes, it may still be reaction to pressure of responsibility and constant stream of difficult choices, but people cope, thats what they do. Removing tools for coping doesnt help anything. You cant ban anything that MAY be oppressive under some specific circumstances. Also, who are you to tell victims of trauma how to deal with their trauma? Dealing with trauma is hardly ever clean and ideal. Imagine telling the opposite to a raped person! How Ms Cockbane would react!  Maybe Ms Cockbane should try some limited, nondestructive, self-inflicted pain once to discover that, yes pain and pleasure can mingle :D.
The doll looks like Dolores from Westworld.
Oh jesus Contrapoints what the fuck lol.
anyone ever tell you how much you look like Violet Chachki?
Thank you for being up such an underrated, but necessary discussion. You are amazing as always <3<3
Well ... the truth is, I *do* take my sexual desires, kinks included, as set-in-stone. I'm not into BDSM (no real interest), but I have some other kinks, I could point to where they come from, sort of. But I couldn't ever change them, despite a pretty strict evangelical upbringing. And if ten years of Biblical guilt, the threat of hellfire, and the tears of the Baby Jesus couldn't alter my proclivities ...  feminism isn't going to either, ya dig? They are what they are, and the only real answer is to find a way to enjoy them as responsibly as I can--ie, consent and harm mitigation.
holy shit ContraPoints' arms
I've had a similar debate once...while tied to a saint andrew's cross. *I lead an odd life*
I'm leaving a comment on a video
I think religious sexual repression has more of an effect regarding submissive kinks than the patriarchy. I mean, being told since childhood that sex in itself is immoral, and that God hates you for enjoying/wanting any sexual pleasure can create a deep seeded guilt surrounding sexual acts that can last long after you leave your religion. The concept of relinquishing control to someone else also relinquishes responsibility for the pleasure you feel during sex. And taking pain/punishment for it further diminishes the guilt and allows you to drift away from your feelings and fears and finally relax into sexual pleasure.  ...Or maybe that's just me.
I like your videos because you don´t give answers, you don´t try to push a certain opinion, but you consider different aspects and sides of a topic and give us something to think about so we can make our own judgment.
Now this is some top quality YT
I think your bias is showing in this video. Radfems make a variety of points against bdsm. It seems like you picked some of the weaker ones.
I have been meaning to ask you, is Sargon your fetish?
I'm glad ContraPoints exists for many reasons, but mostly it's because you give this clear representation on just how varied feminism is as a school of thought without being condescending. It's what I feel is pretty much a problem in our community is that we talk about our stuff in the wrong way which gives the wrong ideas. Not everyone knows about social sciences, not everyone knows about philosophy, and hell, not everyone knows about feminism given what its propagated as today by the you-know-who-als.  This video came to no conclusion other than the one you allowed us to make, and that's just beautiful.
Cockbane's lipstick is kinda on-point. Also, Cockbane sounds like the new name for my vagina.
I could listen to you whisper all day, jeez
lol, the outfits are legendary!
I really appreciate how you can take a complex issue, shed some light on it, then say, "Awww, to hell with it!  Who the hell knows!?!?"  I know lots of people in "the scene", and I tend to fall under the "consent is king" flag... but as my understanding of marginalization grows, I find myself asking the same questions about where these feelings stem.  I honestly think it's somewhere in the middle, where we are introspective enough to recognize our desires were forged in our societal expectations, but self-serving enough to still allow ourselves to choose happiness.  Thanks for another great video... New sub, happy sub.  (Wait, that came out wrong... )
I feel like I have similar inner debates like this all the time. About pretty much everything Like choosing to wear makeup...or dresses...or shaving my legs...It become a rabbit hole I fall into and have to try to just not think about anymore or else risk sitting in the fetal position for a long while before I pull myself out.
Watching your videos I feel like the majority of your money goes into buying new outfits XD If you want to read sex-neutral or reasonable sex-negative arguments that aren't coming from the usual place, I recommend looking up asexuality blogs. "Sex positivity" has not been beneficial to everyone, because there is the assumption that while consent is required, you will eventually consent to *someone*, because "sex is good! sex is fun!" There isn't really room in the conversation for people who don't want sex, not for ~patriarchal brainwashing sex is bad~ reasons, but because of their orientation, or even people who aren't asexual but were traumatised and now no longer wish to have sex. The latter there is the implicit attitude that they can "overcome" their trauma, but why is it necessary? If they are fairly happy as they are, why force them to "overcome" it?
Okay, so the whole societal pressure thing and all that is nice in theory. But the problem is Behaviorism is a fucking cult. And I don't mean that in the nicest way. People often consider Freudian  psychologist as horrible, but I'd argue that Skinner's Behaviorism is just as bad, if not worse. Because there's then no real explanation as to ANYTHING in the world.  Now of-course my statements are always going to be controversial about "are humans just blank slates molded by what's around them" or "Are they the way they are since birth"? and honestly yes and no. It's just Behaviorism can't explain everything. LIKE AT ALL. But people preach it to be gospel. They often ignore evidence that runs counter to their claims and it's their way or the highway.
I am so glad I found this channel. As someone who's a lefty by heart but got interested in this whole situation through 'lol sjw get rekt' etc etc content, it's really refreshing to see someone who's work is..more human I guess? It's a vague description but although your own opinion already was obvious enough (maybe it was easy to recognize since it aligns with mine) there are still some actual fucking counter points mixed in.  Also I just love your sense of humor, the 'happy place' thing really made me laugh.
Abigail Cockbane is the spitting image of Stephen Crowder.
IDK. I think the trauma-based sexual fetish argument is stupid, partly because trama isn't that clear-cut in how it affects our lives and nobodies coping mechanism is the same, and people are traumatized in different ways by different things wheather their like "my kitten ran away and came back." or "somebody in my family died". People also experience sexual fetishes and likes in different ways. I think rather than demonize someone for being sexually active in different ways than other people, we should explore and understand the differences between one person's desires and another's. I agree more with your kinky person strawman rather than your radical feminist strawman. But I think the general argument that "Different societies affect sexual needs differently and look on those needs in different ways" is pretty good,  and we should explore and understand those as well.  EDIT: Is Abigale Cockbane and her novel real?
no, it is a pastime to give both parties pleasure
what do you think about Kink.com?
I also didn't hear any mention of CBT (cock-and-ball-torture). Tsk tsk. That and a more niche version is cock-dressing (cockpuppetry?). Ok well I've heard only one lady describe dressing up penises in little outfits to belittle and deride her play-persons. But it should I think be mentioned!
It's feminist if it considers, asserts and defends women as people, taking into account the social and political implications of given actions. BDSM-friendly feminists have a lot to say about patriarchy and power dynamics. The most surprising to me was the discovery that in healthy dom-sub sexual relationships, the sub is often fully in control of a given scene: full trust can only be achieved if the sub has a nonnegotiable veto over what will take place and what is over the line. Coercion and dehumanisation outside the kink play (or within its execution) render such play impossible.Aftercare, planning, introspective open discussions about desires are base requirements for healthy kink and things us nonkinksters can learn from.Great vid, thanks!=8)-DX
I think the wise philosopher Sir Billy Joel said it best;   *_"It's a matter of trust"_*
The only thing that could have made this video better was sock puppets...
Does the statement "All sexuality falls into the duality of either domination or submission" sound plausible to people? I just find that, having pondered various fetishes and kinks, they can boil down to that dichotomy. It would seem that, biologically, we are designed to react to this power dynamic in order to mate (which is what sex is biologically for. Note: I'm not saying its what it should be. I'm just trying to figure out the origins of people's sexuality)
awesome video , YET AGAIN!  keep doing you , awesome seeing a channel with its own 'SPIN' on it and not just a carbon copy of a carbon copy of a carbon copy like 99% of the other channels on GooTube these days with Monkey See, Monkey Do content   Cockbane is HOT, she just doesn't know it yet... Oooops I didn't mean to type that out without her consent , I'm so Durk' and evil!  Hail Satan  l..l,
this whole channel is like an advert for celibacy, lesbianism and radical feminism
"Maybe I'm old and tired, but I think the odds of finding out what's really going on are so absurdly remote, the best thing to do is say 'hang the sense of it' and keep yourself busy. I'd rather be happy than right any day."  -Slartibartfast, "The Hitchhiker's Guide To The Galaxy" (2004 film)
Your videos are in a league of their own. Bravo.
I am actually drunk, Have a you tube comment (I like your videos)
BDSM is the fetishizing, sexualization and re-appropriation of CSA.
NO, BDSM is NOT feminist, you tranny dunce (Y)
If you can eroticise dominance and submission you can get away with some fucked-up shit. Many 'kinky' BDSM practices were developed in the witch trials. There's this thing called cultural context and history, but that's obviously an inconvenient thing for individualists to acknowledge. Also- the 'kink' scene is so fucking BORING. Just weird narcissists strutting about in expensive clothes. They really arent as 'transgressive' as they think they are. A bit like the way Satanists are all basically Christians.  I also think people got confused because of the way punk fashion in the 70's involved alot of bondage gear. That was an ironic statement though! The punks were TAKING THE PISS of this crap. Its since become a celebrated and 'mainstream' industry. Its about selling PVC garb to rich boring office-workers. Its really really not interesting or cool or radical -its actually completely TRADITIONAL. Like cops, fascists, prisons and religion. And taking the piss out of feminists. Sorry mate.  https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ogypBUCb7DA  Cant u enjoy something without it being feminist? Everyone wants everything to be feminist these days. Beyonce is not a feminist. But you can still enjoy her music. You can indulge in all sorts of unsavory and enjoyable stuff in life- it doesnt always HAVE to be feminist. People are hollowing-out the actual meaning of feminism by insisting that everything they choose is therefore feminist - to me it kindda looks a bit like a guilty conscience? Like they know it isnt? Thats why they have to insist it is? If you wanna get tied-up and choke on someone's cock- thats fine, i mean i guess? - just stop saying its feminist!  Magdeline Berns is a radfem on youtube- check out her channel - you'll love it
My kink is is ContraPoints doing ASMR
yeah I've been feeling weird about rad fems lately. I didn't learn that term until tumblr what with all the terf discourse there. But recently I have been noticing a lot of casual cissexism in feminist writings and that makes me wonder if cissexism is somehow inherrantly linked to feminism. I don't know maybe that's a baseless idea. it just feels like there's a specific brand of violent transphobia that feminists specifically display idk.   yeah this is probably off topic but rad fem in my sphere of tumblr literally means scum of the earth (ie terf) so that's the first thing I thought of. this could also relate to swerfs and the whole white feminism thing
This is probably your best episode yet. Aside from being even funnier than usual, I really like this format. It has the benefit of presenting both sides of an argument, and unlike an actual discussion it isn't restricted by a lack of time to think about the response.
Your commentary on this issue is undercut by the fact that your "extreme feminist" is a caricature of almost no one. It's like Andrea Dworkin meets some sort of YouTube BDSM fangirl?  This person doesn't exist.
I have to ask you this, man to man: Where did you learn how to put on make-up? Would you recommend any specific tutorials? You always look so good.
There are some missing arguments on the anti-bdsm side. Imagine you have a child who was born with an addiction to stabbing themselves in the face. Would you not be worried? Perhaps this is a result of an uncontrollable part of their brain. If so, we'd treat this as a mental disorder. We acknowledge it's not curable, but not encourage it and we definitely wouldn't encourage others, because it's inherently harmful.  I've walked into book stores where entire shelves were filled with nothing but 50 shades of grey books right next to Harry Potter and Green Eggs and Ham. I've gone into movie theaters in which large 50 shades cardboard displays blocked posters for Big Hero Six. It gets shoved in the faces of people going to watch children's movies. I'll admit the fame of 50 shades has died down a little, but to say social influence is not a factor is dishonest even though I don't think it's 100%.  The existence of male subs does not negate this any more than the existence of men who like pink negates that society encourages girls to like pink. Some men embrace their preference of pink despite social influence, not because social influence doesn't exist.  To be clear, I don't think bdsm is inherently bad, but to pretend that there's nothing wrong with it, that there are absolutely no negative consequences of normalising this in society and that it's completely empowering is just blind and naive. This reminds me a lot of women who wear heels. You can chant 'feminism is about choice!' all you want, but I'm still going to cringe as you struggle to walk home.  Also I recommend this video: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=H2lmojePnA0
All choices boil down to nature and nurture. And nurture is just another word for the nature outside of your body that happens to influence your body. Free will as something that is independent of nature and nurture and the laws of physics is an inherently ridiculous concept. People are going to form the desires they have due to their ingrained biology and how that biology reacts to the environment around them. And, philosophically I am a rule utilitarian. I think that what should be viewed as good is whatever maximises long term happiness, with happiness being an incredibly broad concept that is, at least at current levels of technology, hard to quantify objectively, but can still be done to an extent through surveys. If someone has a body whose genetics and life experience cause them to experience joy relating to BDSM, then I don't see a problem with it. I think that you have to demonstrate good evidence to say that it is harmful enough to discourage, and extraordinary evidence to say that it is harmful enough to restrict legally, and that goes with anything. I remember at least the mention of a study that said that people participating in BDSM actually demonstrated far healthier capabilities regarding sexual interaction than the normal population. But, regardless, the burden of proof is still on the people who want it done away with. Otherwise, who the fuck are you to tell me I can't fuck the consenting adults I want to fuck?
I enjoyed this video. In the interest of constructive criticism I have a couple of points below:  I feel this video is a bit unfair toward the feminist angle, just in that Cockbane didn't jump on Beatrix's weak arguments in the same way that Beatrix did to hers, 3:34 springs to mind with the hyperbole of 'locked in chains at gunpoint' going unchallenged, good opportunity for Cockbane to provide examples to the contrary.   There were a couple of lines that didn't quite work for me. The Call me Bumbridge was a bit on the nose. :P 2:28 line on 'choice is an illusion' felt a bit off, it struck me as scripted.  2:46 line on 'dark desires' felt like a bit of a cliche.  This is  a fantastic video though. The "Disgusting Pervert" descriptor after that list fucking killed me. Have a good day man, thanks for the vids!
Why this dude dressed like a chick?
I don't have anything particularly constructive to add, so I'm just gonna compliment your excellent outfits (not just in this video, to be clear).
This is (yet another) fascinating video. I can't 100% side with either person, in that I respect the idea that one's personal desires are shaped by the society around us (in this case, a patriarchal one), and so can understand that even if a woman completely consents to a BDSM submissive act, that she still is influenced by an oppressive society that subtly or not-so-subtly sees her role submissive to men.   I ultimately think, however, that even considering this train of thought, at some point we have to acknowledge that this *is* what this woman wants, even if the reasons have negative roots. And ultimately, I think that we as society ought to respect a woman's (or anyone's) personal choice instead of shaming her for kinks that she did not choose to have. As a gay man, I would feel much more oppressed and outcast if there was some radfem reasoning that my attraction to other men was born out of a system designed to oppress men like me (somehow), and therefore I should force myself to be with women or not indulge in romance at all (even though I know that's not the argument here, just trying to draw an analogy to explain my reasoning). It ultimately goes back to the old idiom about how political extremes on either end of the spectrum wind up connecting like a circle; the end result is "you woman/gay [as per my analogy to myself], your feelings and choices don't matter. I should dictate to you what you want!"
You're making me feel weird ...
still waiting to see you wear a hijab.... only a hijab
Anyone watching Bates Motel? I find a pretty eerie similarity between Contra and norma/norman after they become... "inseparable" (trying to avoid spoilers).
I was with you until you started making fun of child sexual assault. Aside from that being kind of a shitty thing to do, I feel like it muddied the point of the video and left it kind of lacking any sort of resolution.
You are so pretty! also my favorite sjw,  Heil contrapoints!
Yay, Japanese Governess!
This show is so fucking next level, I swear. Self-indulgent in all the best ways.
My sides at 5:20  I wouldn't want to assert that the Ted Haggard parallels as a universal rule... but it's just fun in a "karma's a bitch" kinda way to rattle the closets of puritans.
Completely off-topic, but where did you get that pink wig? It's really cute.
Fantastic as always.  I certainly pretty much entirely agree with the kinkster side, though there were one or two interesting point the radfem brought up that I hadn't considered before.  I don't agree, but theyre interesting.  Also, I'd totally help Abigail Cockbane's fantasys come true.  Edit:  I also think the question is a bit flawed.  Of course BDSM isnt feminist, neither is stamp collecting or being straight edge, or any other hobby or lifestyle choice one makes.  The question is, is it feminist friendly or incompatible with feminism.  For me, the answer is no, its not incompatible.
The "debate" aside (do what you want as long as it's with consent, safe and the sub is in control at all times) your editing for this video is amazing and on point.
These dialogues with yourself/selves are really good. This one and the Nazi punching video
First thing first I should say I disagree with kinkshaming but one thing I've never got is this argument of giving sexual agency to women. Because I've always felt that women have had more sexual agency particularly the time I spent in the kink scene as gender imbalance means they basically can use demand in their favour. This seems a microcosm of the outer world as well. I've never felt as a man that I was desired or never that it was equal in terms of interactions with the opposite sex. I have  a feeling a lot of men would agree. Maybe it's naivety but I just don't get the idea of women lacking sexual agency. Sure there is the thing of advertising and media sexualizing women but then media is only really a skewed reflection of reality. The impression I get from these type of media is it only gives men the role of consumer and portrays sex as a series of transactions. I don't really see how this is empowering for either men or women.
This is from a bdsm blog on tumblr (MASSIVE TRIGGER WARNING FOR HORRIBLE SHIT)    "Forget about everything! Well, not what I’ve taught, but everything else. Forget about what is going on in the world. At this point, your life should be consumed with: how you look, how you look to men, how you look in the mirror, how you look in that outfit, how you would look with bigger tits, how you would look with a shorter skirt, how you would look…… Nothing else matters except how you look. Sex with any man and his cum is the prize for your look. If a man wants to fuck, you get a lovely reward at the end that validates all your hard work."  But it's just fantasy, and totally consensual.
BDSM and feminism deserve scrutiny of their sources. But it isn't just applicable to those two things. It's important to know the agenda behind the ideology one believes before one ascribes oneself to that particular belief as a source of identity. All "identities" are subject to influence and manipulation for agendas. It may lead to identity crisis, but maybe that results in true liberation.
Lol. As usual great video. The radfem felt a little strawman, but I align more with the other side and wouldn't feel comfortable defending her points. I will say that as someone with a kink that often overlaps with BDSM, there are too many times that I've been broken out of my "mood" by something on a man's website that made his "kink" statements too real. Things that indicated he honestly believed some of his derogatory statements rather than recognizing them as part of the kink. It's not in any way a condemnation of the community as a whole, but it is something that likely shapes the perception of the community to outsiders. And it's something I've seen other women that are in the BDSM community warn about to those showing an interest. In my opinion feminists should elevate some of our own that are in the BDSM community to address these inter-community issues rather than shaming them.
I really think that one of the issues brought up by Ms Cockbane needs to be addressed in greater detail: just because it's your choice, that doesn't necessarily make it not oppressive, because choices are not made in a vacuum and in fact there are many situations where we don't have as much choice as we may think we do.  For instance, take the example of smoking.  It's true that the decision whether or not to smoke rests entirely with you, but that doesn't mean that all of the factors that influenced that decision were necessarily positive.  Companies spend billions of dollars on marketing campaigns to influence people to make a decision that is objectively not in their best interests.  And once you start, you may end up addicted, and the choice is taken away from you entirely.  But that's definitely a more extreme case.  We can take it even further to look at what you addressed in your recent talk with The Distributist.  Pickup artists aren't committing rape, the women they sleep with are "consenting" to have sex with them, but that woman's choice may have been compromised, for instance, by alcohol  that was she was socially pressured to drink, and by emotionally manipulative tactics on the part of the pickup artist.  At no point is the woman robbed of her free agency, but that doesn't mean that her capacity for agency wasn't compromised.    Another important point was that the norms we acquire from society do end up influencing our sexuality.  Thus when we see statistics showing that "being dominated" is a much more common fantasy in women than in men, we have to question whether that might be coming from social messages that say that it's the man's role to "conquer" the woman and thus obtain sex, or that otherwise promote sexual aggressiveness in men and subservience in women.  Sometimes these social messages can be extremely literal, for instance in the disdain with which many people in society treat unmarried and especially childless adult women.    To quote Noam Chomsky (although he didn't use the phrase in this context) it is entirely possible to artificially manufacture consent.  With that in mind, we can't just leave the question at "Consenting adults, therefore okay."  This isn't to say that I agree with any of the anti-BDSM arguments, since nearly all of them come from the same place of "Ick, I don't like or understand it therefore it's sick and wrong and must be stopped" that many anti-gay and anti-trans arguments come from on the right.  I'm speaking more in the general sense of how just because someone consents to something doesn't, on its own, make it ethically right.
well that was something
You're so good at arguing with yourself that it's easy to forget you're only one person.
Why does your feminist sound like a Jew?
WOW. That thumbnail just yanked my finger to the like button before the video even started. In other news, the band Avantasia's track 'Avantasia' reminds me of you singing it every time I hear it.
did you make the kinkster male and the anti kinkster female?
what
hey Contra points, I'm someone who would be considered "alt right" or against feminism. I still find your videos entertaining and interesting. Would you ever consider going on the Rubin Report? I think it would be refreshing to hear the perspective and ideas of someone who is from the progressive left. Perhaps you will even change some minds and convert people from the alt right.
My two favorite videos or yours are debating nazi punching and this. I love semi-rational debate on leftist topics, especially since Youtube is full of semi-rational debates on anti-feminism. Not only do you provide an argument on both sides that gives me something to think about, but you're hilarious. You're like a funny, kinky Anita and that's why I love you.
This was fucking hilariously awesome if i could give it 2 thumbs up I would but I can't so just 1...
I have never seen such a perfect video in all my time on the internet. What demon did you sell your soul to in order to have such a perfect unison of theory of mind, humor, and madness? I don't know if I envy you or hate you for it, but by god, I feel somethin'.  What in the world......
I'd really like to see something like this over hijabs. Especially keeping in mind the situation that women in the Muslim world unfortunately find themselves.
sooooooo.... what are you doing this weekend?
On topic: Not getting too personal, but I do have to side with the Disgusting Pervert on the panel. People can do whatever the fuck they want that they enjoy in the sack. It's not eloquent, but it's how I feel. You can be a feminist and want to be in control of another (voluntary) person, and you can wish to voluntarily surrender control to someone else that you trust and still be a feminist. I'm not female or a sub really, but i've read their works talking about how empowering it was to be voluntarily disempowered, then regaining said power, as unintuitive as that cycle may seem. Female dominants are such an obvious argument that it's not worth the ink, imo.  Also: LOL at the placement of  Dworkins "Intercourse" in the shot.
Sort of cannot believe this video even exists. Contra Points, why create an imaginary radical feminist to discuss something that should be so clearly obvious? Reading the title of this video I thought to myself "YES, DUH." Also, as a simple critique to your video, portraying the "radical feminist" as the obvious "wrong" stance, obnoxiously nagging feminist, you are not exactly presenting a "fair" view of these characters. You are clearly biased, as you should be, people who think so radically in terms of feminism are so clearly wrong. But, frankly, I am not sure why this video exists. Most, if not all, of your videos include some sort of retort or discourse. Even the video where you present 2 ideologies within the "left" did not seem so completely obvious which one you think is or just generally is "right." However, once again, love the outfits and production, I just think this could use some altering.
No, and it isn't anti-feminist. What a stupid fucking question.
Off topic questions incoming, Nyk. Very long time subscriber here. Been around since your 9/11 truth debunks of truther claims on the nykytyne2 channel. Two related things: What prompted your return to YT, and what made you spring for the huge shift in style?
I was expecting Ms. Pink hair to be a straw man, but her arguments were actually rather thought provoking
so Cockbane is the go to for SWERF/TERFs?
Jonh jake jackson our lord and saviour
"you can cum for free at home, the case against prostitution"  Amazing
Unsubscribed. You immediately portray the radfem as a tired stereotype of a "crazy feminist woman" and don't actually articulate the anti-kink argument. It's not an argument I subscribe to, but you're so clearly biased that I'm out. Try talking to some actual radfems-- yes, they do exist on Youtube.
good thing I was drunk watching this ... it was hilarious.... very well done... really artful presentation of your points.
I only worry that too many people will just see a "modern feminist" stereotype rather than a specific kind of sex-negative feminist. :\
This is my first ContraPoints video  No regrets
Kind attempt at a steelman radfem. I love it.
Too much story, where is the porn?
Honestly, this isn't my favorite style of video, but I appreciate the exploration contained therein.
Truly finding these videos epic. Well done.
Get yourself a man that looks at you the way Contra looks at the mention of Patriarchal Pornographic Society
The counterargument you gave as Abigail Cocksbane for why straight men are disposed to things like CFNM (which really seems about as far-removed from the byproduct of a patriarchal structure as you can get) or just submissive play in general didn't line up for me. If we're so entangled in a variety of patriarchal systems wherein the incentive structures are set up to encourage men to dominate women, how do you wrangle that into, "men want to be dominated by women because of patriarchy?" I know that's a bit reductive...but, well, isn't that what was being said?   I think there's something worthwhile about asking ourselves why we have the preferences we do, but it seems to me that when you start talking about trends within society at large, a lot of this just boils down to idle speculation.
Why do I feel like cockbane is a TERF?
I wish I could be like contra! You're awesome
omg i live in baltimore too
I think it's important to know that just because something isn't feminist doesn't mean it's wrong. Wearing makeup or shaving your armpits isnt feminist, you might aswell call it anti-feminist in some ways but women chose to do that anyway. Free will means free will but just because you do something out of free will doesn't make it a feminist statement and that's ok. In a perfect world there would be no kinks, if you believe that kinks are rooted in the patriarchy... Discussing things as problematic, or trying to figure out why they exist, doesn't mean people should stop doing it if they really want to do it. I feel there's alot of misunderstandings and people take it so personal when you discuss their kinks as problematic or an effect of the patriarchy :/
I stopped the video to collect my thoughts at some point in cockbane's speech and said to myself "she makes some good points but-" and then I realized I absent-mindedly referred to you as a she because you're really fucking convincing as a radical feminist
It's important for everybody to interrogate their own pleasures, and think about how they may have been influenced by the various forms of hierarchy which plague society.  But at the same time, we still have to deal with the fact that they exist, and many of them simply won't go away, even after a heavy dose of self-psychologising to remove things which deny people autonomy. So, while actively working to eliminate each and every form of hierarchy/heteronomy in the world, we should enable people to have a healthy outlet for desires which may (or may not be) marked by it.
Cockbane is the most ironic last name for a radfem. LOL she must have been a kinkster long time ago.
The world is a stage, but the play is badly cast – Oscar Wilde  Brilliant as usual <3
the asmr joke is funny every. single. time.
The idea that people can't genuinely consent to the practice of BDSM is an explicit denial of autonomy which, according to Martha Nussbaum, is a form of objectification.
I don't really like your faux-debate style videos. It always comes of as stillted. Your other videos are much more enjoyable, in my opinion.
My two cents on this debate is many coming from an anti BDSM stance are coming from a place of ignorance since most of how BDSM is portrayed in the mainstream is usually negative or for titillation.  Anyone who has spent some amount of time in kink circles knows how much communication goes into play and it's the sub who sets the limits and safeword. Basically the whole dom and sub dynamic is not so cut and dry and to be clear I'm speaking only from my own experience and observation.
Maybe people could use their imaginations to explore these dynamics further. Namely, would BDSM still be a sexual preference in a world with no violence committed by human-animals towards human-animals or non-human animal. I would say yeah. Just like I would think that something like prostitution would still occur even if we as a society reached gender parity and equality was reached among the sexes.
this is your best video but i might be a little biased
Wow, if more feminist were pumping out enjoyable and sane stuff like this, your gay little cult would have a lot more members :)
Do I have to be drunk to comment here?
To me its neither feminist nor anti feminist, its a personally choice and i think we should only get involved when it crosses over in to abuse.
CP in the pink wig and BDSM makes my bisexuality very happy
Uh, I believe it's pronounced "Coh-bain".
most pple seem to have trouble putting themselves in others shoes. ILoving this type of video
I must say, I like this hypothetical debate alot more than the other one you did due to the addition of a third party to mediate between the two extremes.
not a fan of SSC, KRACK sounds and is better, less ableist too!
Is Cockbane supposed to be an anarchist? The red and black fist pin would imply that. If so, why would she be making an appeal to the law as an argument against BDSM?
"Well, you care a little." You brought it up.  This is a better summation.
I need the asmr feels so good :D
Fuck you're hot
One of the best things about ContraPoints videos are his wide variety of costumes
4:06 I LET OUT THE LOUDEST CACKLE I'M DONE
I like this theme you got going on where you take two sides of a debate and act them both out.  Its literally what goes on in my head whenever Im not sure where I stand on an issue. Can you do more of these?   Also Im #teamSirBeatrix
Your profile reminds me of Winona Ryder, at least with the Abgail Cockbane get up lol.
I really don't get why this is controversial to people that aren't those "all sex is rape" second-wavers. I mean, in saying people, particularly women, shouldn't (or can't) engage in these things consensually, you're basically substituting traditional restrictive gender roles for new restrictive gender roles, which is pretty un-feminist as far as I'm concerned. And I mean, the BDSM community probably takes consent more seriously that society at large, so even if you want to argue we're only doing it because of cultural influences, why is that a problem?
I see the words TERF and SWERF in the comment section. I googled the words and just wondering why criticizing BDSM or whatever is automatically seen as being trans-exclusionary or sex-worker exclusionary by some? Is there a connection I am missing?
Loved the video. But maybe the title should be "is BDSM anti-Feminist?" instead. The argument was more about if willing submitting is going against feminism rather than if a women being able to live out her fantasies safely is a feminist ideal and therefore feminist.
Brilliant  I'm so happy you're doing what you do.
Bdsm is SUPER feminist. It's ALL about consent.
I'm a huge fan of Abigail Cockbane's wig :D
As a member of the BDSM community, this is almost exactly like some of the debates I've had with people about kink, though it should be said that I'm a gay dom so my interactions in the BDSM community have nothing  to do with women, but this is really how I, personally, see it and forgive me if I have to add a little biography to this explanation.  I can sort of see the other side's thing, about BDSM is just abuse, because of course there is abuse in the BDSM community, but I feel like that argument implies that there's not abuse in pretty much every other community, too, or that abuse can only come from the dom, which are  simply not the case because I'd dealt with some pretty abusive subs, myself. In fact, studies have shown that people in BDSM relationships are happier in the relationship and have better mental health (example: http://www.livescience.com/34832-bdsm-healthy-psychology.html), and, while I acknowledge that it totally looks like abuse from the outside,  that's really only a judgement based on how it appears without ever delving into the community itself or actually listening to what we have to say because, what looks like abuse on the surface, is actually something which is often very carefully discussed and negotiated ahead of time. Even if the subs says, "Do whatever you want to me," it is still something which is discussed and approved before any play ever takes place. A lot of communication almost always takes place in a BDSM relationship (unless it's an abusive relationship) and the community always encourages the mantra of "Safe, Sane, and Consensual".  The issue of consent always comes up as well in this sort of discussion and, while it is a very important aspect to discuss, I do feel that it becomes a little ridiculous at some point, I've had someone tell me that women cannot ever consent to being videotaped as a way of telling me that porn is inherently anti-feminist. I find the idea of telling women they can't do something in order to be feminist and not let down their fellow women a little hypocritical, sort of like how some hard-line feminist say that the hijab or niqab are inherently misogynistic. I should say that I proudly identity myself as an intersectional feminist, calm down, trolls, but I do find that anti-kink beliefs in feminism often also go along with anti-trans and especially anti-sex work beliefs, as well. In the end, the whole thing really boggles my mind because, within the BDSM community, you will find some of the most empowered, most liberated, most powerful and feminist women you will ever meet, both dom and sub. It seems ridiculous because, without this anti-kink sentiment, I think that the two sides would be natural allies.  And, as an explanation as to why I, myself, am into BDSM, the best thing I can say this is. Ever since I can remember, I've always been interested in tying guys up and having power over them. When I was 5, I would go to sleep at night thinking about the guys I saw on television naked and bound up, but there always felt like there was something missing which was only filled in when I reached puberty and started exploring the BDSM world. Yes, there are definitely faults in the community, but I think a lot of those faults can be found in the "vanilla" community, as well, and, in the end, I truly do believe that BDSM has saved my life more times than I can count. I'm quite a skinny, small, timid, and shy person who was bullied a lot through my school years and who still largely can only take what everyone chooses to hurl at me with little real avenues to fight back and, without BDSM, I can easily see how all of that sadness, anger, and resentment I had inside would have become more self-destructive behaviours, well, more than I already have, but BDSM has given me an outlet that I desperately needed. Maybe it's not the most healthy coping mechanism, but it's the one that's come to work for me. The feeling of being in control and dominating another person, especially my favourite type of subs being big, muscular, masculine guys, is the most intoxicating feeling in the world and made even better by the fact that, no matter what I do to them and no matter how much I degrade them, the person under my control loves every single minute of it and probably need this just as much as I do. That's what BDSM is about for me, two people giving one another what they need in order to be happy, two halves of the same whole.  Sorry for the long comment. :P
0/10 no "sk sk sk sk" at the end :(
As a sex-positive feminist, I have internal conflicts about this sort of thing all the time, not just with BDSM specifically but sexual practices more generally. Why is it that sex gets a sort of 'pass' but we analyze all other aspects of society very critically? Is it because it feels good and thus there must not be any harm associated with these activities? Why do these things arouse us?   On the one hand, I completely agree that two (or more) consenting adults should be able to do whatever they want behind closed doors. On the other hand, I've always been curious about where these kinks/fetishes come from and why is that certain acts are more pleasurable to certain groups of people. When culture impacts so many other, if not every other area of our life, it feels weird to me to not consider the possible culture origins of popular sexual activities and even more obscure kinks. One example that has always been unsettling to me is deep throating and how it was introduced into pornography in the 70s. Linda Boreman, the woman who starred in the film "Deep Throat", was coerced into performing these acts by her abusive husband and her ability to consent in that situation was pretty questionable. Despite this, the film ended up being fairly successful and iconic. Nowadays, deep throating is pretty common place in porn and it just sort of bothers me on some level that a commonly accepted sexual act has this dark history behind it. I know this isn't related to BDSM specifically but your radical feminist character reminded me of all of this. Of course, I recognize that consenting adults can participate in the activity of deep throat with no harm done to either party. It's just sort of interesting I suppose that what may be considered a consensual activity nowadays may not have had consensual origins?   That being said, at the end of the day, I feel like I can't really come up with a good argument as to why consenting adults shouldn't be able to do whatever they please behind closed doors since if no one is really being hurt, there shouldn't be cause for concern. Although, I do wish we had a better understanding of how certain fetishes develop and where they come from because goddamn I've psychoanalyzed the fuck out of my childhood and I still have no idea why I like the shit that I like when it comes to sex. It feels like there's a part of myself that I don't fully understand and I guess on some level that bothers me too.  Anyways, I'll stop arguing with myself now and go masturbate away my confusion like I usually do. Great video like always, bb~<3
o sex negative feminists haha
swerfs are the worst lol
My main thing is if you're critical of power dynamics in society, why would you want to mainstream BDSM? If it's your thing, great but It should stand criticism like anything else but because it's not mainstream then it must be buttressed by people on the left. I've got a problem with that mentality. There is also a fine line between consent and coercion and if fetishizing abuse becomes mainstream then rape culture would explode in younger communities, who are naive. Haven't we had a lot of talks over people not knowing what consent is?
I've honestly never heard this "bdsm is bad" narrative from any feminist I know of. Feminist discourse nowadays is very sex-positive from what I can tell, and bdsm culture seems to have a lot of respect for boundaries, safety, and consent.  This is still a very interesting topic, though. Great job with the video, Contra.
Well this kina just left me conflicted and confused... Thanks! Also it was fucking hilarious :D
I just gotta say. kinky sex makes the world go around.
I have had some BDSM experiences that were with guys who were very controlling and toxic, so I can  definitely see how it is harmful and can really change your self perception. I think if you really trusted someone (like you've been with them a long time and you want to try some kinky shit out) then it should be up to you, but for me, I just couldn't be with anyone who got off on hitting me or choking me or beating me.   Also, I personally don't think BDSM I'd a feminist act, but a lot of things aren't. I fucking hate this fucking culture where we are like "high heels are feminist! make up is feminist! getting choked out is feminist!" like it's so watered down. Everything you enjoy doesn't need to be feminist.   To be a feminist, you should: 1. Support women's right to bodily autonomy 2. Recognize gender socialization and oppose it  3. Include intersectionality in your analysis 4. Support other women and empathize with them 5. Apply feminism to your own life at your own pace 6. Support the liberation of women  How stupid is it if we just say any choice a woman makes ever is feminist? Is smoking or shooting heroin feminist because a feminist chooses to do it? If something is harmful, then how useful is that? Pop feminism is the feminism that says "feminism is about choice uwu :3!" NO. It's about the liberation of women.   I wear makeup every single day. I'm not stupid enough to believe that it's a feminist act. I do it because I have grown up in a society that has deemed a lot of women not good enough without it. In a culture where women are assigned value based on how youthful they are and how sexy they are to men, I need to shave and wear makeup to get respect from coworkers. It's not bad that I do it, I do it to survive and get a job, and get treated with respect, but the choice to wear makeup wasn't made in a vacuum.   Sorry for the rambling, but this is so fucking infuriating to me.
WELCOME TO THE CONTRAPOINTS EXPANDED UNIVERSE
Christ this guy is hilarious
Ms. Cockbane is bringing up a valid point wanting to question where  kinks come from. But Ms. Cockbane is jumping the gun by attributing kinks to Patriarchy. Like, there can be more to delve into this. It doesn't have to be theory, we have sexy science to find out more about sexkinktimes. I'm waiting for an in depth study of "where Furries come from" TBH.
(edited for Cole Porter) )How about this: Self-examination of our motivations, sexual and otherwise, is an invaluable resource for growth and development as fully realized, functional beings and should always be encouraged.  It's also nobody else's business as long as nobody is being hurt or forced to do something they don't want to do.  Also, I'm not sure if I'm on board with this "no kink-shaming" thing.  Isn't the thrill of doing something that you know many people would deem shameful one of the things that makes it a kink in the first place?  If nobody thinks it's fucked up, what's the fun in it?  https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Wd1w5tn040g
Well done <3
wow, that was hot!
Was that Chopin during the flashback? Can someone provide a name of this piece?  Video was awesome as usually.
Even for male submissives and female dominants, bdsm is highly patriarchal. For one thing, it's specified as femdom rather than just dominance, so it implies that female dominance is unusual, which, in the bdsm community, it is (I wonder why). For another, when men are submissive in sex, this is done through emasculation a huge amount of the time. This equates sexual power with masculinity, which is an exemplar of patriarchy.
I have a dog-eared first printing copy of You Can Come For Free at Home.
I was wondering if this would be the first Contra video with no alcohol but NOPE
"There are no radical feminists on YouTube, so I had to invent one."  U SURE????? https://www.youtube.com/user/iremythpurr
a debate with strawman characters is a strange concept for a video
I have no strong opinion one way or the other!
I've heard the argument of "how free are our choices" also applied to muslim veils. Basically, how much of a personal choice is it really when you've been indoctrinated since birth to believe that you need it? I think there's a point worth considering there, but i do not see the need to vehemently oppose something based on that if it's not directly harmful. That argument is probably more relevant for prostitution, and even then it's not really practical/realistic enough.  Great editing, by the way.
TL;DR unorganised thought dump on how the anti community has become all it was against and how I as a person Love this channel because it encompasses all I want in a commentary channel. Actually challenging it's own point of view in the form of a comedy skit, because the anti community sorely lacks doing this. Like ever. And how an avid watcher is even stating to become tired, yearning for new fresh ideas.   I Just found you today and your videos are amazing, I normally hang around the 'Anti-SJW' community (and by that I mean like shoe0nhead pretty much only, most of the others either annoy me or have become like a bad parody of their former selves) But its nice to come over and watch another well thought out perspective of the other side, I may not always agree but your videos always make me think. This has nothing to do with anyone but heck, I'll vent it anyways. Recently I've been following more 'SJW' types such as you (god I hate that word I feel like it doesn't mean anything anymore), 'Folding ideas', 'Ashley mardell' and so on, You're the only one I'm subscribed to but that's because much like shoe you're more comedy driven when making points. Anyway I'm beginning to think that what was at first what was people fighting back against this toxic version of (pop) feminism has turned into a monster just bashing whatever is slightly feminist for the sake of views, like even shoes recent video had me going 'I swear she's said these points before', like there's no food for thought anymore, yeah people are gonna bitch about stupid shit but it's low hanging fruit at this point. I still like her comedy and agree with her on some issues but just feel meh about most subjects now. I feel like the 'anti' community has outstayed their welcome like 'yeah you've made it very clear that people shouldn't just jump on the extremist fem bandwagon and that people throwing tantrums is wrong to get their way' gr8 m8 but it's time to stop beating a dead horse and move on to other subject or hell perhaps as a twist you could find someone's on the other side to agree with 'WHAT PEOPLE WITH USUALLY WITH DIFFERENT OPINIONS AGREEING WHAT IS THIS MADNESS' I hear their hardcore fans cry. But it would just shake things up a bit and make me feel like their not all one dimensional people with 'flat' opinions, I know shoe isn't but most of the stuff she puts on the internet that are actually interesting topics now go on twitter, like she made a small dig at the 'anti' community about the whole JAHNTRAHN thing saying that they should all go in harder on him and if he was any one else they would including herself. 'YOU KNOW WHAT THATS GREAT AND INTROSPECTIVE AND AN INTERESTING TOPIC, DO IT' but I bet she won't (god please lord in heaven prove me wrong) cause if she does she then thinks outside the 'anti' echo chamber she'll get backlash. Like isn't echoing something that these channels were against at some point but they criticise their own ideas so rarely. I always think of that one freeman's mind episode where he did a play on the phrase by Friedrich Nietzsche, But I'll use the proper quote this time as it's not as silly"he who fights monsters should see to it that he himself does not become a monster. And if you gaze for long into an abyss, the abyss gazes also into you." (yeah couldn't be bothered to write the whole damn thing) I feel like this sums about the 'anti' community well they meant well but now they've become all they are against.
I've always found the 'is bdsm feminist' debate kind of silly. It's kind of like asking 'is bdsm environmentalists'. What people do in the privacy of their own bedrooms doesn't necessarily have to be socially conscious, it just has to be consensual. If it's in private it doesn't matter if what you're doing is "woke" or not. It's what we do socially that has the greater social impact and that's where we need to be feminists. But perhaps I'm wrong about that.
That's the second or third "honey I'm home" so I'm gonna go for it: Little Nick, little Nick, let me come in ...
Now this is a topic I can talk for hours on, most objections I see come from people not being properly informed - when between consenting and trusting adults that have clearly defined and agreed to the necessary limits, safewords and with the appropriate aftercare, BDSM can be both empowering and fun. More people should try it
I think I understand now how your videos keep getting better, you're cloning yourself!
Caution: do not watch this while eating dinner, you will spit your food out laughing.  Source: happened to me
Choke me contra.  Choke me consensually with your strong arguments.
1:22-1:23 sexy
I'm happy that your channel is growing <3
I think you'd be legit really good at ASMR!
so does liking spicy food mean you're a masochist
I don't know how much insight I'll provide, but whatevs. The topic of BDSM is interesting to me as a person who's never actually had sex before. Long before I became a feminist, I genuinely could not understand how someone could be into their partner whipping them, handcuffing them to the bed, verbally humiliating them, etc. It all just seemed so degrading. But then as I slowly started to learn more about feminism, I stared reading lot of blogs and articles from subs and watching documentaries about BDSM to better understand it. There of course was the whole "pain releases endorphins" thing, but what changed my view were when both dom's and subs alike made it clear that it's the submissive that has all the power. They decide what their dom does to them, how far they're allowed to go, and everyone stressed the importance of safe words and consent. So I'm on the kinkster's side. Yeah, there will always be those assholes who join the BDSM community because they get off on beating women and taking complete advantage of people, and the portrayal of BDSM in books/film or any type of media can be questionable (like the fucking 50 Shades series UGHHHHH KILL IT WITH FIRE), but I've lost track of the amount of dom's and subs that were also feminists. Hell, most of them are way more respectful to their partners than people who aren't in the community. Your average every day fuckboy isn't going to care as much about consent and pleasing their partners.  I'll admit, there are certain aspects of BDSM that confuse me or downright weird me out (gimp masks look lowkey terrifying lmao), but considering I've never tried any of it, it'd be stupid of me to judge anybody with really weird kinks.   tl;dr yes, I do think BDSM can be feminist. Even though I'm really inexperienced I'm pretty sex positive. As long as everything is safe and consensual and legal, do whatever you want. And if any radfems want to lecture you on how you can't really consent because BDSM is torture blah blah blah, well, fuck 'em. Then again I severely dislike TERFS and radfems alike.   sidenote: 4:11 - 4:27 had me ROLLING. That shit is meme-worthy. I feel like this video is a hilarious sjew version of a Funny Or Die sketch.
the one in the middle won
great video! I'm liking this relatively been handed approach.
In time, you will now the tragic extents of my faillings...
If you get a binaural mic for that last segment, I will come in my pants. I'm already extremely hard. Anyway, intellectually well constructed as always :)
Honestly not my favourite video of yours, but probably because I have been in deep discussions with some very intelligent radfems about this topic and honestly I felt the representation of their side lacked the substance I've gained from these talks. Most of the people I've talked to tend to say that people can do what they want in the bedroom but that there is a tendency in feminist circles to analyze everything in minute detail but suddenly shutting it all down when someone even tries do discuss what happens in the bedroom. They also tend to advocate taking a stand against the mainstreaming of things like daddydom, questioning dominant men who enjoy subjugating women, providing a way out for girls who suspect they may be self-harming through sex, heavily analyzing patriarchal structures of sex and (on another subject) supporting the nordic model on prostitution. Love your stuff and hate TERFs but I'd say you need to talk to more non-TERF radfems.
Kinkshaming has the same psychology as homophobes have. Some of them hold on to some fundamentalist belief because beliefs bring simplification to our lives and some of them are so fucking into it and ashamed of it that they'll own their lives opposing it in others.
please consider creating a spinoff channel in which you do nothing but whisper gibberish into your mic while ambient recordings play in the background.
you ever just discover one video that someone did and then go watch their whole channel?  you are both entertaining and very good at expressing the balanced middle road arguments that have been so sorely missing in current discourse. people like u and t1j need to keep doing what ur doing cos it's awesome and so are u.
*intro plays*  One was enough.
You would probably make more money as a camwhore.
Great vid <3 The introduction of a mediator character helped hugely with structure, it took out a lot of the rambly-shouty feeling that came across in the Punching Natsees debate. I'd be keen to watch more like this.
God i love your BDSM outfit
Whenever the question of "Is X feminist?" comes up, I always like to refer to Lindsay Ellis's great article on the subject which pretty much boils stop putting things in binary "good/bad" categories and just enjoy it. Nothing fits comfortably into a wholly feminist or wholly not feminist box and trying to shame people for what they enjoy rather than use feminist theory to examine the context and effects of a thing is dumb and unproductive.
Somehow I'm in the dark side of the internet.
This is legitimately one of the better youtube channels on the internet. You've inspired me to start making more/better content
I see you've been hitting the gym, Contra :)
Personally I'm all about sex positivity just because shaming my body and desires feels more oppressive. I think BDSM can be liberating, how ironic that may seem, because it allows power dynamics to be played with in a safe, consensual environment.   Some BDSM tastes may be the result of society, it's impossible to not be influenced in some way. But there's a line between how you want to be treated in the bedroom and daily life. Being a submissive doesn't make you a lesser person, you're not submitting to societies expectations, just your partner with guidelines involved to stop when you want because this is a consensual game.   But that's just my take. Also, love your videos! I'm a new viewer and I'm so glad I stumbled across your content.
When I saw the first frame of this video I thought "Oh damn this is gonna be good."
you should look up the lesbian sex mafia and the feminist sex wars! its a lot to do with this
Me on the left
Was 6:45 an origin story?
Damn... Contra is kinda buff...
Great vid as always! I've always been stuck about how to apply feminism to BDSM as a nonbinary asexual (AFAB) because the power dynamics between genders didn't even come to mind for me until I started taking sociology/psychology lessons in college. For me, BDSM was/is escapism and I didn't/don't really think about who the social implications of the person I'm playing with and what that has to do with me (as I've played with cis and trans people in the past.)
I side firmly with freedom of choice but I do accept that because our choices are informed by our culture, that there's a need for analysis and critique of those choices, so that we can make informed decisions.
I usually cringe to the highest degree when it comes to ASMR type shit but oh my GOD that credit sequence got me feeling some type of way...1 hour version please 😩
great video as always, very articulate. i side with Beatrix on this one. In my opinion; if one is in a consensual and safe relationship, and self aware of ones past, there is no good reason to take away their agency when it comes to such a personal, spiritually pleasant and potentially gratifying thing like sexuality.
You're videos are always on point... And you're hot as fuck.
So, I discovered your channel around the end of this past October at a point when I was, due to increasing frustration the ever growing the reactionary right, very heavily considering starting a youtube channel that was pretty much just going to be your exact channel. Anyway, I guess what I'm trying to say is thank you for preemptively reading my mind a making this channel which is currently among my favorite things on the internet. Also, you look really great as that radfem, like I seriously really like that look on you. Keep up the good work. You're wonderful.
If I appear on the news, I should be so lucky as to earn the chyron subheading of "Disgusting Pervert".
Check "Trolling wannabe pornstars" on Efukt. That shit's gonna make you asexual.
Rational discourse leads nowhere, and introspection only uncovers the terrible traumas of your past, which you really wanted to forget? Are you talking about BDSM or your time on youtube? Please don't quit again. PLEASE. I swear between Brexit, the rise of nationalism across Europe, and Trump, I cannot get through the next few years without you. PLEASE NICK. PLEASE DON'T GO. PLEASE.
My head tingles and I feel wwierd (good weird) when you whisper...
ROFL
please message me for a collab     I have a huge following on pornhub
ContraPoints has me more confused about my sexuality than anything else that's happened to me in the last 29 years...
5:09 I'm actually eating a spicy quesadilla right now  Sensually, of course.
you're strange
yay. Someone else addressed this!
too short :\
Damn, bro! Are you hitting the gym? look at those biceps! Can we expect a ContraPoints/The Golden One collab?
Really interesting points.
I found your videos today... Now I have a problem. And you need to upload new videos. Now!
this is so weird yet I love it.
Cockbane...lol
I am awkwardly turned on
I'm crying...
TERFs are never this attractive :/
Are there really feminists going after the bdsm community? It seems like such a weird thing to criticize.
You mentioned you like Louis Threoux, if you havent you should check out the book he wrote based on weird weekends. Good stuff as per
you're a god damn hot cross dresser. I love the new rise of people like you and Hbomberguy, keep up the great work
Free Will doesn't exist, therefore consent can't exist, therefore everything is bad and we all just need to lie down and die instead. Checkmate, *The Living.* I'll be collecting my Nobel prize now.
Your makeup skills are getting better.
I've never been to a contrapoints video so early! Keep up the awesome work!
There are no radical feminists on YouTube, so I had to invent one.  I tried to think of at least somewhat plausible arguments to give to that perspective, though the worst arguments the radfem character gets are ones real radfems make, such as the "BDSM is the same as torture" argument, which I took almost word-for-word from Gail Dines.  The kinkster character's arguments are mostly things I've heard kinksters say, with some liberal feminist naivety thrown in to annoy the radfem.  Which side do you think is correct?
This made me want to go join a nunnery, but then I thought about what goes on in those places and decided against it.
Yay I'm early, time to think of a joke, anarcho-capitalism!
I squee'd aloud in the library when I got the notification  #NoShame
"Patriarchy affects everyone, explains everything and in general is magical" Nice vid. Getting drunk.
haha, imagine someone unfamiliar to ContraPoints watching this video
If it's safe and consenting then it's feminist as shit. Sex can be incredibly empowering
you make a very sexy TERF. tho TERFs are scum
LOVE IT
Cockbane is bae
