im sorry but i desagree completely. i like your other videos though.
exactly though so many of these guys are nerds so they know exactly what it's like to be bullied but instead of being nice they've internalized all the garbage the jocks bullied them about and now essentially dish out what they took for all those years.   It's like it never actually ends, we're still in elementary and nobodies grown the fuck up.
the problem with TJ is that he caters to the brainless anti SJW masses in his videos and then complains about them.
You know, YouTube. I never thought I'd say this: but thank you.  I'm heavily involved in the atheism community. But I go for the calm, rational stuff. Rationality Rules, holy coolaid, cosmic skeptic, The atheist experience, Dawkins, Harris, Hitch and not once have you recommended Sargon, the amazing atheist or the like. With the adpocalypse, all the problems with your algorithm, how you something inadvertantly bury LGBT and even news videos, in an attempt to bury hate speech, I'm happy I've not once given those reactionary assholes an accidental view. Armored skeptic is a skeptic like my dick increases in mint flavor the sweater it gets.
3 years have passed, and YouTube is still a goddamn septic tank.
The amazing atheist is irrelevant now
yeah sjw exist in both side of spectrum and their ratio is not far off.
GIVE MILO A FUCKING BREAK
4:00 the bullyed very often  becomes the bully, so i am not suprised at all
3:57 Those aren't nerds. Those are douchebags. Nerds belong more to your geeky, hobby-oriented culture, whereas douchbags just like to eat things off the ground because they "know some fag put that in his butt." The distinction is subtle, but just remember: Sometimes, someone wants to smell a nerd's breath.
To all the people saying Milo got what he deserved, he should know better than to insult cis people, hope he learned from his mistake etc, I think what Contrapoints is saying here is that the punishment doesn’t fit the crime.  If some random teenager makes a video you don’t like, what’s the proportionate response—leave a dislike? Comment something like “wow, I think you really overgeneralized” or better yet, explain how he was wrong? Maybe just click off the video and don’t come back? OR... do you and thousands of other angry hate-mob commenters call him a thing, tell him to kill himself, or talk about how you will violently assault or rape the teenager?? One of these responses is NOT LIKE THE OTHERS!  As an aside, I do find it interesting that apparently the far-left AND the far-right seem to have a problem with so-called “cancel culture.” Maybe they aren’t so different after all! (Just kidding, they still are—the left’s cancel culture is just saying “you’ll never work in this town again” while the right’s cancel culture is saying “rape and/or murder them.” So, slight variation.)
Why do Americans think Americans = ALL other White countries? She says she has experience with ''western society'', really? Does she have experience with Slovakia? Portugal? norway? Poland? ROmania? NO. She has experience with AMERICA. America is NOT Europe. These are two very, very,very different cultures with two very different politicial system, also, Russia IS a western nation as they are white christian europeans, and that's what Western World is.
Mama bear mode activated. Way to go Contra. Adults who can't handle teenagers being teenagers deserves to get a ding upside the head.
love you <3
You have a similar view as Onision,  Not a bad thing btw.
"I'm not bigoted, and to prove that, I'm going to say a lot of bigoted things"
That milo kids passing so well besides his voice 😅
There was a time long ago that I thought TJ was cool... Maybe he changed, or I change.
Go Baltimore Booze! It gets ya exactly where ya need to go! Drunk!
I think either you or Knowing Better discusses Racism.
The way with which you speak and structure your arguments is elegant and approachable. Very envious 💙
The only person on the internet who knows what they're talking about ladys and gentleman, I love you bish
It's so embarrassing to watch grown ass men parade themselves as these intellectuals when screaming and triggered the way TJ does.
I have to admit it, I kinda miss the farts.
You’re beautiful and brilliant 🌺
I am embarrassed that I ever listened to Amazing Atheist (~2012?).
thanks for defending this kid. the kid will learn from this experience.  fuck im so glade im still kinda the kid i was back when i was 17, and im also glade im a totally different person with more idea's about evolving into a better person. today.,
Brilliant video.
Wow. This was made before TJ was million subscribed
Bro you're lucky this video is old or I would destroy you
Yeah I really hated this era of youtube,
Using "Song for Guy" is cool, very cool.  You and Milo are lovely people.  Carry on, please.
Ugh your videos are so great you say what I wanted to say for such a long time but coudnt but it in better words than you
You keep my going inside.  Thank you!   Thank god, really ( non-religiously ...ugh, English you are impenetrable!).
I guess I am a little older than a lot of the people around here.  When I grew up, racist language and stereotypes, homophobia, transphobia, and misogyny were all the norm.  I heard the N-word, and the F-word constantly from the adults around me.  When I was a teenager, most of my friends also used these terms and joked about these things.  To be honest, I did too. I never had close black friends as an adult, but I have had several fairly close gay and lesbian friends. I was also friends with a person who openly identified as a Nazi. I don't really hold any racist views myself, but I am also not emotionally upset by them.  When I see the response of people today to what I perceive as very casual racism, it seems so over the top, that I am sure I am far less anti-racist than the majority of people.  Why this long setup?  Because I have taken the Harvard implicit bias test on two occasions and both times it tells me that I have a slight bias in favor of black people.  Yet, I am nowhere near a pristine anti racist.  So who exactly is it that does have an implicit bias against black people and what does it actually mean?
Damn dog that blue bow was on fleek
I'm kind of disappointed that after this exceptional video, and so many other current educational ones on LGBT issues and racism on this channel, this following hasn't immediately hopped over to also support Milo and his videos.
this idiot is still around?
"Cool-headed rationality and willingness to stand up for free speech" hahahahaha fuck so accurate! these people think they are more civilized than the others but they aren't.
2:13 that rvdsm guy actually respects milos pronouns lel
Haha! "Earnest teenager".  All I see is someone in a complicated situation who thought ideology might be helpful.
I hate bigots!
So I stopped by Milo’s page and the video in question appears to no longer be available. Normally I’m against deleting content even if its not up to your current standard, but in this case not the worst idea. We all grow and learn I suppose.
Bit late, but have Milo and Tj ever done a live stream together? It's difficult to tell how much of this situation was click bait, view count/ads/$ (as ppl made good $ in 2016 doing this stuff) and the real issue.
I'm like 2 years late to join this discussion so I'll rather pass it. Anyways I'd just sound like a mansplainer even with my educational background. Anyways, don't waste Red Label its good!
I hate the title of the video on an honest level. It’s a ridiculous claim.
Gosh I wanna have a conversation with you...
Yeah. Milo was pretty annoying but I can't really fault anything you say here. And Milo turned out to be pretty tough in the end too!
If you put yourself out there you will get fed shit. Sorry hun
The interned has created a new type of Bully, the Nully :D
Better title for Milo's video? "Our inherent biases." It's less accusatory/name calling, and probably would have gotten less attention from the "locusts"
look man shoe and skeptick are fine comon ( i dont mean man lyteraly btw )
Dude I remember watching this on armored skeptics channel and you see this intro. And he goes off on how he has never talked about milo so where do you get off on showing his face. Now I understand yours just trying to show the most prevalent members of this anti sjw youtubers. Man once you leave high school, a few books, a few real jobs, and some time in the military really makes you understand what people are really saying if you just listen.
If Milo didn't want to receive criticism perhaps he shouldn't have insulted an entire segment of the population in the first 3 seconds of his very first video.
Thank you so much for this videos, Nat
I've validated your self worth by subscribing.. so wheres my reach around? Love you sweetie♡♡
omg your voice has changed so much
You cant just call all cis people racist/transphobic and expect to be treated with any dignity
“All Cis People are Transphobic (And you're probably racist, too!)” Wrong. I am white heterosexual male who likes to eat meat and i am not Transphobic/Homophobic/Autophobic or even Cherophobic.
Also, this is clearly the transgendered version of white fragility, in which white people are generally more offended by people complaining about racism than the racism itself.  Cis fragility?  My pardon for commenting before finishing the video. I'm an idiot that way.
What's funny is that if you criticize those YouTube Nazis even a tiny bit, they throw fits of rage and tears about how you are "forbidding" them from saying certain things because criticizing them is the same thing as taking away their free speech rights.
That side of YouTube is so toxic. It’s gotten to the point to where I practice extreme caution when I see “atheist” or “skeptic” in a channel name. One minute I’m just looking for some cool harmless atheist talk & the next some angry neckbeard is screaming red pill arguing points. Then you scroll down to the comments in a “who the fuck even watches this?” moment & realize that there’s an entire army of angry neckbeards screaming red pill arguing points. Safe space is an understatement. That shit is an all out echo chamber.
TJ gives atheism a bad name. The only thing he has is being shouty at whatever triggers him.  Even when he was an atheist youtuber, instead of whatever it is now, he just borrowed arguments from other people and turned them shouty.
Damn, the like/dislike ratio on this thing now is w a y different from when it came out  Kinda shows how far Natalie has come since this video, in such a short time too. It’s honestly pretty inspiring.
To be fair, Milo _is_ crazy   - in that he is complaining about chauvinism while expressing a _rigidly_ trans-chauvinist worldview.  Separately, a split-screen video to compare the two - like at 7:02 - would be good for headphones if you put each video on one audio channel.
you def hit the nail on the head as to why i unfollowed TJ all those years ago (2010, nearly a decade ago, wow!) — i came for content on topics not belligerent and boring shit takes on random stuff
Thanks as always. The ambient viciousness of this stuff is amazing, and it's something that you can keep that philosopher's calm facing it.
I would say cis- and heteronormativity are also very very debatable as concepts. You can't really blame any ideology for it's creation, when lgbtq comprise less than 5 percent of the population. It's like saying right-handedness normativity. Yeah, I expect that nothing is made to accommodate my left handedness, not because I'm discriminated against, but because the overwhelming majority are right-handed. There was even a bias against that in my dad's generation, and he was beat up to learn to write with his right hand instead, because the left is "the devil's" or some retarded shit like that. I don't blame western imperialist culture, I think it's a human trend to value conformity in a group so much.
Yeah I'd fuck you what about it?
Why do the anti-sjw cucks hide their fat neckbeard faces behind stupid avatars like a deer? Wtf
The line is pretty thin
'Well, this is the internet,' or 'welcome to the real world,' basically translates to : 'I'm taking my trauma out on you.'
I love staying all the way to the very end of your videos...the last 15 seconds were hilarious.
Yeah, I love TJ, but he can be a dick to people.
I got bullied a lot in middle and high school and it was MOSTLY by the sorts of guys who got bullied by other guys or got socially rejected in general. They're pissed off that they can't fuck the prom queen but they're not going to take it out on her (because if they do, her boyfriend will kick their ass) so they take it out on the fat, autistic girl instead. Youtube's hoard of "logical" bullies follow a similar principle. They themselves tend to be outcasts so they go after people who they perceive as being below them in the social pecking order just to remind themselves that they're not on the bottom.
Ah yikes. I used to watch Bearing, TL;DR and Sugartits. Eh. Can’t stand them anymore.
Milo just sux. She is just as close minded as the people she mocks. (A video on use if the word, "yall.")  Here's a quote: "... I think you either say, "yall," or hate the people who say it..." what?!
whatever happened to just eyerolling at a person you disagree with and moving on? if people don't intend to discuss the issue seriously, i can't see why they feel like wasting their energy bashing that person if they're not doing anything wrong, just annoying to them :/
Im so glad I’ve decided to visit your older vids, they’re amazingly well-rounded, considering I can’t record a potato sitting on a counter And your logic, damn, I can tell you research the bejeesus out of multiple perspective, I’m not surprised you’ve only improved from here
Hey, I normally love your videos and you have great insights. Here I felt like you mostly just called TJ a bully, but I would've loved to see you engage with his statements a bit more. You seemed about as glib about his opinions as you claim he was agains milo's. Not saying I agree with him, but at least he engaged with milo's arguments (wether you thought it was fair or not.) Cheers.
Remember when we could make jokes?
6:05 The picture of Rush Limbaugh hungrily beholding a crucifix shaped butt plug plop out of Trump's asshole really got me going.
Natalie, you’re so smart and pretty :3  way too smart for YouTube. But I’m really glad that you’re here. And I’m pretty grateful that people like you are willing to put up with all this bullying just to put your voice out there and educate or illiterate asses  🦇☕️🍪
Well you see. It's okay because they personally dislike Milo.
Did I just see Boxxy
YouTube isnt a place for discussion. Its mere mockery from the get go. I can go ahead & find 9 left swinging douchecanoes for every 9 right swinging ones. Watch both make up your mind & bring that to the voting pole In November where it actually counts.
You’re like the anti-red pill. Thank you for reminding me what a bunch of angry, neck beards this community is
You saw after the video was bullying most of the population calling every white people racist and sexist. :thonking face:
well I do agree that no one,not even Milo,Should be the subject of harassment or transphobia,And I would know cause however I'm not transgender I still enjoy crossdressing every now and then.And any Anti-SJW who would do things like that to any YouTuber no mater how much they may disagree with them is wrong.But that doesn't excuse what Milo said,He made some very shallow statements about how white people in his video,and had an obvious double standard.What I'm saying is he could've worded it a lot better,So I think it's fair to say that he was basically poking the hornets nest and then got stung.Does this excuse how the Anti-SJW community reacted.No,But is it ALL OUR FAULT.No.Also the actions of one's fans is not always the fault of the YouTuber themselves,It can yes,But no matter who you are you will have some sickafans who will personally go attack the person a YouTuber is criticizing.And EVERYONE including SJW YouTubers have them.Is it fair,Not really,But hey this is YouTube after all.But still good video.
I feel like both sides are guilty of bullying other people they disagree with.
KUMBA AY YI YI !!! YOU ROCK !
The video title called all cis people trans-phobic & racist. That is bullying without criticism. It wasn't right for the comments to strike back, but nobody is blameless here. It wasn't just a one-sided attack on an SJW.   All people are capable of handling opposition badly, that's a trait. Political views have nothing to do with it. The people who are being rude in the comments are not an example of ALL right-wing, and there are plenty of SJW who act in exactly the same light. Bullies will be bullies, that's something you have to accept before you upload anything on you-tube, especially if you're going to use insulting & controversial titles in your videos.   You compared the positive reception of right-wing videos with the negative reception of SJW, but I think you're simplifying things too much. The SJW videos in question are more attention-grabbing and reach a wider audience, so there's more chance people will disagree. Response videos from anti-SJW are usually only seen by loyal fan-base or by people who have disagreed with the SJW video and gone to look for criticism. That's why it makes sense one video has negative reception when the other doesn't, it has nothing to do with people being against social justice.  That's my only criticism of this video. It paints Anti-SJW as the bad guys and SJW as the victims, but both can behave badly. Bullying is uncalled for, by anyone.
I got to say, Milo is really cute
Your problem with the term "Western Society" does nothing to address the power that Western Society has via white supremacy over nations of colour.  It's code for Eurocentric countries and that wont go away just because you refuse to name it.
Simple. Socialisation. Racist society racist people. Sexist society sexist people. Transphobic society transphobic people. We do need to decondition.
Omg, Milo was a child and TJ is talking about them getting raped and beheaded
Contra, I remember you from back when you were Nykytyne2. Back then, I never once thought you'd get to the popularity level you're at now, but now that you have, I actually think some day you're going to be even bigger than TJ. I used to be a fan of his, but I think his attacking of "SJWs" is his last ditch effort at maintaining popularity on this site the easy way, and I think his time is nearly up. Regardless, keep doing what you're doing.
The easily offended are no different to those who kill cartoonists.
If all of us who liked this video went over to Milo's video and liked and commented it, we could outnumber the haters for a fleeting moment :')
Anti sjw is 2010s mainstream brainwrecked fad for edgy angsty teenagers who love to scream at u for simply stating facts and/or opinions instead of engaging in an actual conversation without cognitive dissonance, selective attention, and making everything out of the context add it up with so much strawman.  then ironically claim u to be the one who cannot handle ""criticism"".  And they say that sj is some "tumblr millenial fad created by whiny teens"", as if human rights activism that help develop, reformed, and shaped the human society to progress did not exist for centuries.  Holy fuck,  how rational.   Jesus H Christ that's basic af history lesson.  I can't with this planet.
You deserve way more followers, ContraPoints. Just saying. <3
Only 3.2K dislikes. Disappointing. The alt-right have 650 angry men, and no effective bots. Pitiful.
Where was this video when I got sucked into the Anti-SJW craze two years ago?
2016 was the year where this shit went far too.
You have to be a masochist to put stuff on YouTube nowadays!
I love how ContraPoints is so self-aware when making these  arguments and doesn't resort to attacking people in an emotionally charged way to attract people who want their opinions mindlessly validated. Then again, she's been a philosophy professor so she's overqualified for this whole YouTube discourse scene
👎👎👎👎
I would disagree on using the term racist as it reduces the weight of the term, in my opinion, the term inherent prejudice, where as I view racism as the extreme of that. We all are subject to inherent prejudice due to our evolutionary backgrounds, simply if that person seems different they should be avoided, but racism is taking it a few steps farther and actually treating people lesser because you believe that your “race” is superior. In conclusion my argument may seem rambling and to well thought out for the YouTube comment section, but to put it simply I don’t think racism is the proper terminology for this greater argument. Feel free to criticise and continue this debate as you please, though I’m inclined to believe that this is no longer relevant as I remember 2 years ago when it was
:/ bad video, contrapoints, disliked
well, i am a white guy. if i said all black people are shitty id probably get hate messages too. people dont like it when you blame and accuse groups of people based on their characteristics  when have no control over. it shouldnt matter what gender the accuser is. i also hate milo because he is a fucking idiot, i didnt know he was 17. my hatred has nothing to do with what gender he is, i just think hes veiws are stupid and can cause alot of stupid problems.
Free speech doesn't mean that one is protected from criticism and that everyone deserves compassion. And what TJ did on 1:19 is not bullying, you did the same kind of mockery  with Peterson. Or did you intentionally bullied Peterson? :D But yes, TJ lost his touch and I pretty much do not watch his videos any more. I even forgot I subscribed to his channel :D
Oh well I stopped calling myself an atheist when I saw what self-proclaimed atheist on the Internet did with that word. Now I'm just a guy that doesn't believe in any god. So technically you can say I'm an atheist, but certainly not an Atheist. These guys are completely missing the point and somehow manage to become fanatically anti-religious, foregoing any form of skepticism along the way. Critical thinking? Well, critical thinking is now apparently about insulting any person that doesn't think like you, and being rational is just of matter of what type of beliefs you hold on to frantically, not the very fact that you hold on to beliefs in the first place.  Well, Internet Atheists: you give a hell of a bad name to atheism. You're actually much much worse than most cool-headed deity-believing people I know. I suggest you replace your belief in the inexistence of a deity with a taste for inquiry about its existence. Don't worry, that won't make you one of those pesky, can't-decide-where-I-stand agnostics. You can still have a strong Bayesian prior against the belief in a deity. But at least you will look like less of a dick, bullying people that don't agree with you, and you might even accidentally uncover some truths and more interesting questions, rather than rehashing the same old song. Atheism should be about challenging the status quo, not establishing another one.  Stay curious, stay open, be a skeptic! Also, don't be a bully. Bullies resort to physical or verbal violence only because their arguments fall flat. Always remember that.
Hi Contra. I really liked this video. I discovered your channel about a few months back with the Jordan P video, and I've watched a few others since then.  I watched a couple videos. At first I simply enjoyed your reasonable critiques of things that I fully supported, but I scoffed at a number of your points. I'm one of those "reformed liberals" who started watching Dave Rubin and Jordan Peterson (et al but mostly them at first) and really started questioning my liberal beliefs. Many of the anti-SJW commentators started making a lot of sense and I was introduced to a thought process that was very different than the one I had had for most of my teen/adult life. I started really paying attention to your channel recently. I really enjoy your content. I decided to go back and watch from your channel from the beginning. I just have to say this video was fantastic. You keep me grounded in a way that I think is needed.  Kudos.  Keep it up.
GO OFF QUEEN
I love this I love this I love this
Right-wing youtube never learns, they later harassed David Hogg
You are wrong in this one Contrapoints.
It’s a shame; I remember when the Amazing Atheist was a guy on Channel Awesome doing reviews of trailers. He was pretty funny, but not next tier funny like the real Channel Awesome heavy-hitters. Now he’s devolved to *this*... What a bummer...
Philosophy is a minefield, huh? I dig all your vids, ContraPoints. Thoughtful & well considered, as well as appropriately humorous.  Thank you.
In 2000 when I was a senior in high school I went to my queer friend's funeral on his 17th birthday because he killed himself. My gods things have only gotten worse.
Why are people treating 17 year olds like this.
Fine. In the end, Trans people don't deserve to be bullied for being trans. But they aren't protected from criticism for stupidity
I wanted to like Armoured Skeptic. I thought he might be at least a little less pandering than the rest of these clowns. But NOPE! Anyways great video as always.
I’m a cis woman. I don’t get personally offended by what Milo is saying in that video because I simply know it’s not true and get on with life without it bothering me. It’s a very inflammatory thing to say, indeed, but it opens a dialogue. It’s just not acceptable for people to be hateful in response- have a debate, have a discussion and have respect.
I didn’t realize he was so young at the time.  That really does suck that he had to take so much hate, and those comments that you showed are truly disgusting.  I did not agree with what Milo had to say, but it is unacceptable when it goes from cordial disagreement to full-on hatred and bigotry.  That being said, TJ can’t control who watches him and who goes from his channel and shitposts some other channel, just as no other channel can.  He wasn’t bullying him either.  The worst he got was when he was pointing out how good he had it here versus if he was who he is in the countries he pointed out.  Maybe the voices were a little much, but those stereotypes don’t come from no where.  It is not a lie that he would live a much worse life in those countries and would likely hear the comments and suffer the fates described in that segment.  He was just making a point.  You talk about misrepresenting people, when you did just that to him.  When did TJ ever dehumanize or misgender Milo?  You certainly never showed that.  The people who did take it to that level are shitty bullies though, and I have no idea why they would watch someone as rational and reasonable as TJ is.  This may seem like sucking his dick a bit, but he’s truly the smartest, most honest, and least partisan youtuber that I follow(and I follow quite a few).
What's the song that plays briefly during the Silence of the Lambs 'Would you fuck me?' homage? I can't find the specific song
Looking back on this.  I said a lot of dumb shit when I was young and am thankful there is no recording of it.  Milo isn't wrong, just used a click bait title.  The title "An examination of Transphobia in CIS gendered" Wouldn't have created response videos.   While I use to like a lot of these anti SJW video produces, they need radical titles and poorly made arguments to make their videos entertaining. I'm not saying anyone needs to censor themselves but I look at it like camping; if you leave food out you didn't feed the bears but the bears can smell that shit and will find you.
Milo’s points about heteronormativity was correct, even if you are raised in a home that is open, the greater society is engineered to single out non conformists and swallow them in tides of propaganda.  Btw, love your show.
The problem with YT that if we talk in %,  YT has more right winged people than other political views and lifestyles. If Milo would have posted this video on Tumblr(I dont really know how tumblr works but I assume that you can post videos there) he would have gotten a very positive response and the amazing atheist etc a very negative one.
I am sorry I can't sub again to validate you. Perhaps this comment, a like and an eventual promise to patreon when I get stable cash?  Your thoughts sustain me.
Fuck you tube time for imperialism. Empire i want to do it. Mwwahha I am the empress don’t dissabay my will or I will crush you like the rebellion in a parodox game you are. Jk I love to go all hammy some time, and play paradox games that’s all. I’m done with this comment also I don’t know what else to say but sometimes I kinda meaninglessy drag on my comments so how are you
I'm sorry, but being where I am, I can only love you. Bhlagh, I know.
If you logically explain why somebody is wrong, they'll accuse you of whatever phobia will score them the most oppression points. If you say ghastly and despicable things, they'll run away sobbing and you can claim you won the argument. I HATE this state of affairs. It's disgusting and it puts the loudest voice above the smartest one. But thus has been the way and only an imbecile would set rules for themself that they know their opponent will not honour. Hate the game, not the players as far as I'm concerned. When one comes to you in good faith to have a civil debate, have a civil debate. When one seeks to make you nothing but a punchline or a dehumanised "other", make them the butt of their own joke, and pull no punches doing so.
Claiming that she eatsa de poopoo is a really persuasive argument though
I like your videos but seriously you have a whole video detailing how “western society” is a dogwhistle (dear fuck I hate that word and how easily everyone uses it) for being a fascist. So adding a critique here about how milo here is cringy for using it is pretty funny.
It's an age-old phenomenon: a bullying victim internalizes the bully's "Might Makes Right" mindset and when they wind up in a situation where they have any sort of power/influence, they proceed to become the bully, using what they have to abuse those lower down, those deemed deserving for whatever reason.   I have no doubt that some of them are being honest when they claimed to have been bullied, but there are times when I look over these assholes' material and I feel like saying, "If anything, you weren't bullied enough." Because I spent ages 11-18 being relentlessly bullied and I used those experiences to become an overall more compassionate human being, able to recognize age-old systems of power and control, whereas you guys...I'd compare you to toddlers throwing a hissy fit, but that feels unfair to toddlers. Toddlers still have a shot at becoming mature adults.
Am I the only one confused by everyone in this comment section going totally insane about how horrible and stupid this Milo kid is and how he deserves everything he's getting?  I've watched the video and I don't get the raw and unrelenting hatred from it. Its... Its really not all that offensive.  There were some legit points made. Was it perfect? No. could it have been rephrased better? Certainly.  Why is it suddenly ok to destroy this person in the most malicious way possible? People keep slamming those standing up for Milo saying they are trying to stifle free speech when the opposing side is doing the exact same thing, bashing this person for speaking out for their opinion.   And honestly... Why are we as white people getting so offended about this? Do we get attacked on a regular basis? We're the majority of the population with the least amount of criticism thrown at us say for "don't be an asshole to those who are different."  The point is not that free speech is bad and that being put off by somebody is not allowed. The point is that people need to either (A) - leave criticism that is calm and collected and unbiased (yes, I know this video had some of that in it, but so did a lot of the ones bashing Milo) so that the person can take that into account in the future when thinking / speaking out and grow as a person and (B) - take it for what its worth and move on. If its so bad / dangerous it must be discussed that's one thing. But, taking someone's non-hateful (if they are cool and collected and not screaming like a on out of control freak trying to rally people to their side like a war is starting) opinion and making it look like they are the antichrist trying to tear down the nation is Probably not justified. There we go, my piece is said. Just my honest thoughts, for what they're worth.
You know that social media platforms like youtube deliberately give these alt-right guys more views, more likes with sockpuppets because it is a useful tactic to divide the populace. The alt right makes up a very small portion of the populace. Most people are going left because oppression breeds awareness and in reaction to it comes resistence.
Lots of angry white men, who have legit grievences but they are blaming the wrong people.
I think a lot of these problems with acidic comment bullying, doxxing, and cult-of-YT-personality group think wars would start to dissipate dramatically if comment sections were moderated. That's the long and the short of it. That stuff wasn't possible up until the 2000s because people couldn't post trollish garbage to news stories printed on paper. People would sometimes read awful arguments, but they had to be printed as an op-ed, or reported on during the 6 PM news. There was no force multiplier in prodding a herd of sympathetic basement dwellers to go harass someone.  Far from saying we need to go back to that, I think the situation our society and others are now in has a lot to do with asshole-ishness being seen as a good thing and even permissible because, to take a point from one of your other more recent videos, post-modernism is about questioning everything from social norms to well-accepted truths, and like any new power, there is judgement, wisdom, and responsibility people need to bring to it; but most are more apt to bring the un-evolved aspects of their personality first.   Simply put, electronic communication has never had a set of rules - no Emily Post, no book of style, no etiquette (clearly "netiquette" died before the aughts were out). Start instituting those, and the trolls and sycophants now have to be super-creative or actually present an argument to get through the moderators, or they go back to being quietly cloistered and more powerless. And I'm fine with counter-posters being held to the same standard; if you are in the right, just say it without name-calling or profuse vulgarities, and leave it at that.
Shoe never said anything bad about Milo xD Contra, please don't just lump em all in as having the same opinion. You're smarter than that. I have come to appreciate your views a lot. And you definitely seem to care about honesty, not misrepresenting others and self reflection. So why do you insist upon lumping them all into one super-organism? While some of their opinions might overlap, they most certainly do not think the same way on most of the issues where you just innocently not mention their names, just show a collage of their faces, it feels lazy and dishonest. you definitely have your own shortcomings as most people. Not going to vilify you for it, but it does reek of hypocrisy when you misrepresent a group of people in a video where you criticize them for misrepresenting someone else.
Watching this in 2018 as a socialist, feminist soy boy reminds me of being an XD MCSKEPTIC and hating this video so much because I agreed with every point and it scared me and so found it deeply unsettling to think I was wrong
At a certain point lunacy is just lunacy. Milo is only worth taking seriously because of what she represents. Lunacy being normalized. Acting like Milo is deserving of the respect of a debate opponent would only legitimize her lunacy.
THE ENDING HA HA.
I know this was 2 years ago and you probably not gonna read this and I'm not trying to justify bullying but this is the internet. If you don't have skin thick enough to deal with internet criticism (what do you expect from people behind screens that can say anything without consequences have you not heard about the Stanford experiment?) then don't post things on the internet. ESPECIALLY don't criticize people and state facts based on nothing that are false.  Th truth hurts but statistically if your video has majority of dislikes and comment that are mean, you said something wrong and stupid because usually the hive mind of the internet is right. If Milo was smart she/he would understand this and make a video apologizing and trying to understand that he/she was wrong and why. Not double-down and make more videos strenghtening her backwards views. He/She wouldn't get so much hate if he/she was close minded to criticism and the idea that maybe he/she is wrong.
I actually agree with the point you're making in this one.  The style of your newest videos is better though.
I don't think tj needs to clarify he has a tiny penis. It's assumed.
This was the video that made me subscribe to you
Milo is being naive and observant at the same time.  Even open minded people should have introspection in order to be aware of what ways they fall short of how they preseave themselves and others.  Yes, in retrospect there have been incidents where I have not been the best to others that I could be based on preconceptions.  I recognize this and strive to be better.  His presentation was poor is all, not deserving hate just criticism
Pretty interesting to see you as a man.
You’ve really changed your voice since this.
I really honestly do not like how you lump shoeonhead in with everyone else.... She is nicer than you.
i'm more on milo's side considering queer acceptance etc, but the way it's usually phrased is hyperbolic and unnecessarily hostile. that's not how you get people to want to understand and eventually support you. it's like a middle finger. it adds to the already existent polarisation. and i'm not saying that it's the queer people's fault that they are not very accepted or that it isn't cruel to get death threats and hate. they should not have to defend themselves and their existence. unfortunately they do. but saying ''you're all homophobic and transphobic cis scum'' will not make cis people less transphobic, in fact, it will give them a reason to ignore any potentially good point you would make.
I think it's kind of intellectually dishonest of you to suggest that TJ  (or anyone) has any kind of responsibility for the actions of their viewers. The alternative would be someone with a large channel seeing an argument from a small channel that they disagree with but being unable to critique it.  Argument quality aside everyone has a right to make their point irrespective of the size of their channel. If people disagree with them their viewership will shrink. If they dont... maybe you have to think about why these like and dislike ratios are the way they are
Hey don't tar all Nerds with these Right Wing nut jobs (Nerds like everyone have their share of dosches) it's not representative, But I like  your stuff.
I disagree Milo  said but some of the response to Milo was boarding on Bullying
honsetly its your able to take pain and humiliation that drew me in. js
This came out on my 14th birthday
Why nerds are so evil? Prey animal tends to overuse it's position when it becomes the top of hierarchy.  It requires character and comment sections are about sprouting emotions
Something I've found to be the most effective at shutting these assholes down is simply pointing out how many logical fallacies they're playing into. For example Ad Hominem is favourite of theirs for some reason. As is Red Herring, Sealioning, appeal to populous, no true Scotsman, etc. You don't even have to counter their crap, just point out that their shit is full of logical fallacies, and say that you're not going to engage until they can have a proper debate like a mature adult.
The atrocities folks are capable of when hiding behind a veil of anonymity, ugh.
Wow...I’m Cis I’m not transphobic
these dislikes really make you thonk huh
in regard to comments from anti-sjw people , you need to understand that was joking ,i'm sure  no one would attack an sjw ( except for self defense )  , i'm tired of those anti-humor super sensitive lefties , you need to understand that words does not hurt and when you tell someone " go to hell , i would punch you , where is isis.. "  that's a form of expressing a disagreement in a cool and funny way , only people who i see punching people is lefties , give me a single video that shows an anti-sjw attack someone ( except for self deference ) . also , those funny comments you see them only on super weird sjw videos , you don't see them on reasonable lefties videos , and that's normal if you make a super weird awful video you need to expect joking comments , there plenty of examples of reasonable lefties and they mostly don't get that type of comments ( including you ) , what you really need to understand that anti-sjw is not behaving like that because they hate lefties or trans-people  , they are anti-sjw because sjw is awful super sensitive irrational cry babies ( ex : the amazing atheist is a leftist and still anti sjw bullshit )
For the longest time, I wasn't the largest fan of Milo. And this wasn't for a lack of...agreeing. Because like you point out---the base of the statements are true. But, I was rubbed wrong with the chosen wording.  However, watching this it does make me stand by the opinion that Milo deserved better treatment than barbaric bullying and attacking. It's just...  It's hard to see it all---truthfully.
You should do a video on Sandman. Someone bullied, who has become a bully.
I know this is a weird question, but could you upload the first video you apparently made and maybe criticize it? Maybe it would be a good reflection of your former and current self.
To your point about nerds gaining some empathy from shared experience. As a social-normative hetero white cis-male, I've never been so harshly judged or bullied than when I tried to play a game called Belegarth. That's the bop-'em foam sword game nerds play in the park, for the ininitiated. It's like the more bullied someone is the more likely their peer group is to eat their young.
Okay but there's ridiculous amounts of clickbait on the internet, so how come one kid uses it and gets annihilated? It is true that we all have internal biases, like this isn't untrue. Using hyperbole isn't bad.
Funny and well researched! Good on ya ContraPoints for being a voice of reason. We need more like you You've earned a well deserved sub.
I usually agree with you, and I get what you're trying to say here but...  - BUT -  This Milo person kind of brought this on themselves by giving their video an inflammatory, accusatory title. Sure the points expressed within the video were more nuanced than "hurr durr all whiteys are KKK members" but if you're going into a video already feeling pissed off and attacked you're not likely to agree with said video, no matter how nuanced the opinions expressed within are.
Rather lazy profiling: "Nerds"??  Authoritarian personality/Fascist Populism/Neocon ideology/The Christian Right/.....{you know?}
Contrabullshit again lol
Milo needs some hormone therapy look a little and sound a bit more butch / just saying that’s why he’s being attacked by a cisgender just an opinion
Maybe if he lost some of his fat ass weight he might be able to see his little dick
Loving this channel. As a poor straight white guy hanging out mainly with other poor straight white guys, it's basically life-saving for me to find a reasonable, articulate, informed opponent to fuckwits like Sargon who are misleading my friends. I am not tech literate at all and I have a broken brain so research can be overwhelming and difficult to maintain for long times, and videos like these are really helpful to dumb fucks like me who can see that certain arguments are logically inconsistent but who don't know the facts and figures to back it up. So thanks and well done, and thanks as well for recommending Outrage News. Keep fighting the good, non-violent, fight. Violently.
At least they are not as bad as MGTOWs. But great video anyway
Wait, I honestly cringe at everyone involved in the scandal but how is she any different than Milo, they claim she was being sexist and racist and yet what's the difference. I don't think provocation belongs in either side because politics is very partisan in nature and doing this only enforces it.
wow... o.o you are a nice person.
The thumbnail
Fuck you leftists fuck
What these """rational""" Anti-SJWs must understand is that "free speech" only implies that people cannot be punished *by law* for their speech, and that no speech can be legally prohibited (I may be willing to concede that, in our modern days, this might extend to not allowing large corporate-run services to censor what an user posts in *their own* profiles and submissions). In any case, it *does not* imply that a person is not allowed to delete YouTube comments (and block users) on their videos/profile, especially when they're inconvenient or abusive. If someone writes something offensive on my notebook, I reserve the right to throw away that particular page, see.  I'm waiting for the day when anti-SJWs stop whining about "free speech" whenever their openly abusive and inconvenient comments get deleted from *other people's* videos and profiles, which they have the right to do. Freedom of speech doesn't mean you can post bullshit on my personal profile and expect me to not block you. If I ain't calling the cops to arrest someone for offending me, I ain't violating no free speech.
Momma Natalie strikes again!  You go girl!  Just don't forget, bearded anti-sjw types need momma's too. All the best.
you deserve a fucking medal tbh
milo has the same glasses as tj
I find tj annoying but I like shoeonhead.
Contrapoint binge and a bowl of chocolate ice cream; sometimes the path to heaven goes through heaven
I thought you were a smart sjw. But damn you're stupid.
I'm having trouble sleeping, cause a few very smart film critics I really liked turned super antifem while I wasn't looking, and I realized how much people I really like probably wouldn't like me irl at all. I needed something to cheer me up, and you always do babe. Thank you.
i don't know. some people feel just being white automatically makes one racist. being cis automatically making you trans-phobic (especially when you don't want to have sex with them)  being heterosexual automatically makes you homophobic
Kudos to your song choice in the first 20 seconds. I'm a huge Elton John fan, so hearing an obscure song of his is a nice surprise. It's "Song For Guy", but it's a remix that I've never heard before.
3:10 "but they are more popular reeeeee muh safe space (even though they adress critiques and respond to comments lol)
2:12 if you dehumanize the group of people,than dont get shocked when you get dehumanized lmao great critique
0:34 great start. Shows how  Youtubes le rationalistist community responded by cherrypicking non video makers/ireelevant people who arent (probably) even a part of da komunite. Now this is the level of intelect i expect from a youtube feminist
Please post more often.
Thank god TJ Kirk had abandoned the anti-SJW thing. Yeah, he’s still a shit lord, but he’s admitted to the fact that he felt uncomfortable with some of that older content, thus his change, and his abandoning his pretty successful “Drunken Peasants” podcast. It’s absolutely hurt his views, like big time, so I give him credit for that. I actually like the guy tbh, but that’s really bc he’s at least pretty progressive, unlike the rest of these anti-SJW idiots..   Anyway, I’m loving digging through your back catalogue. So glad I found your channel. ✌🏼
i've noticed that Milo, or other YouTubers like Riley Dennis, who identified as nonbinary or trans without physically transitioning...get a ton of shit for not """really""" being trans.  but then, when Milo and Riley started taking hormones and getting surgeries, suddenly they get more support from viewers...like they're suddenly "valid" as a trans person now. three yucks for cis people thinking they have the right to make value judgments on that.  Blaire White even made a video apologizing to Riley Dennis, for her transphobic remarks about Riley's "fakeness," ONLY AFTER Riley started transitioning.  like how weird is that?? it would be like if you called someone ugly, and then they started wearing makeup, so you didn't find them ugly anymore, and that was the only reason you apologized for calling them ugly xD (i know you can't compare being trans to wearing makeup but i thought the analogy was still helpful)
Mocking need not be critical or bullying. And 'all CIS people are transphobic' is immanently mockworthy!
The Youtube "skeptic" community is anything but. They don't actually believe in or practice skepticism. If they did, they'd do more than watch "epic cringe compilation XDDDD"s and "Angry Dude With a Furry Avatar" to get their worldview. But they don't.
I watched Milo's video, and then some of the other videos you referenced. Suffering Jesus on stilts. While Milo's video was a predictable restatement of talking points, the responses were frenetic, vicious, gormless ninnyhammering. It was very obvious to me that the responses were playing to the worst instincts of their fanbases. Buuuuuut....  "Milo" called people names first. One of the first principles of not being punched in the nose is to avoid punching other people in the nose. That doesn't justify punching Milo in the nose (rhetorically) but it does make it predictable. If you say you don't care about other people's feelings, you have very little room to complain when people fail to treat your feelings with grace.  It doesn't matter how big or small your channel is, or how old you are.   All that said, of course in a society where we're all marinated in primitive attitudes about roles and identity from birth we all have bad assumptions and attitudes, some of which we never really shed, no matter how hard we try. No harm (discomfort, yes, but not harm) in acknowledging that, and working to change it as far as possible. But if you choose to take up the whip of cords and drive out the Pharisees, be prepared for what happens come Friday...
People are overly emotional and love to hate.
Hmm. Milo's video has a... er... "provocative", clickbait kind of title. Some of the points he makes are legit, but that title, though :/ He's also obviously a geeky kid who is just getting started with social justice stuff, which is fine, but a little embarrassing to watch.   Anyway, I bet a lot of the hate he got was due to the title, and people probably just shut off after reading the title, if they finished the video at all. That obviously doesn't excuse the bullying, but I just can't say I would be surprised about it. It sounds kind of horrible all around, this situation.   The only person speaking in this ContraPoints video who didn't make me wanna throw up a little was Contra! I've been going through all the old CP videos and I can't get enough, I wish I'd discovered her sooner; what a breath of fresh air.
I remember back when atheism was the big thing they'd pwn teenage Christian girls. It was fucking weird. Even though Milo identifies as male, this seems to be along the same line.
Its very upsetting to me that this video has so many dislikes because the points you're making aren't very controversial. I guess advocating for reasonable arguments is wrong?
Shit arguments the entire video. Saying he’s mean isn’t an argument and never was
I think there's no way Milo could win over the internet. No matter how he phrases his opinions.   The truth is, I think he's right. We are all bigoted on some level, and in order to truly conquer that bigotry inside ourselves we need to accept that we aren't always going to be in the right. When someone says "you're doing something wrong", it's not an attack on you, it only gives you an opportunity to better yourself.  However, the internet (especially anti-SJW's) love straw men characters. But what they love even better than strawman characters, is pretending that these straw man characters exist.  And Milo fits the perfect stereotype of a "special snowflake strawman" when you look at him for the first time.  • Loud, feminine voice • Short hair but with "baby face" characteristics  • LGBTQ+ identity  • has opinions common among some groups in tumblr  (reminder that tumblr is not a hive mind) • Uses a lot of words like racist, transphobic, etc without further explanation (even if that explanation is reasonable) and confusing those around him  Milo made a good point that I feel we all can learn from. However, I feel like because of his general appearance and attitude... the anti-sjws wouldnt give him a chance either way
Goddamn, there’s a lot of intelligent people in the comment section, and I’m not being sarcastic on that. I just found a new place to frequent. Good going, everyone.
He has to read between the lines and interpret the video just as you do. His interpretation is just different and you can't ask questions first to clarify. A "video response" is not a response in the regular sense as there is no two way communication here. In his mind he has been personally attacked and called a racist. Of course he'll lash out.
Interesting take on anti-SJWs basically having their own safe space. I guess that's why a lot of SJWs and justice advocates disable their comment section. It's a shame as it stops them from reading reasonable criticisms of their statements. Though allowing comments will also let in the countless childish insults. It also seems that anti-SJWs have more subscribers. Even within that demographic it's usually the more louder and obnoxious people that get the most subscribers. It's the same with a lot of things really. What's popular is usually shit or over rated.
Ur so fucking amazing
As much as I understand perfectly what that title 'you're transphobic and racist' is trying to say, it's not the best way to get your idea out there. It puts people on the offensive straight away. If I wasn't introduced to the idea slowly I'd tell you to fuck off. Because hey I'm doing my goddamn best, sorry that I make mistakes like a human being, I don't think I deserve to be labeled racist or transphobic for mistakes I own up to and try to correct. Which is a fair point imho and anyone who angrily accuses me of being racist and transphobic simply because I'm white and cis is gonna get told to fuck off. Because it's not a productive conversation.  Obviously you don't have to be polite if I've said something genuinely offensive. But if you can't go five minutes without pointing out my white privilege in the course of a wholly unrelated conversation, you need to calm the fuck down. (This happened to me once which lead to my change of stance. Because not all minorities are nice people :| You'd think I'd know this but seeing as I've only been exposed to genuinely awesome bastions of kindness and love, it took me off guard. And we're all 24. No teenage excuse there.)  Went and gave Milo a like for support. Would've left a nice comment but he understandably muted the comments.
Transphobia is what finally had me leave GamerGate forums, and transphobia is what had me finally check out of the 'skeptic community'.
TJ is Glen Beck for the 4chan demographic.   I don't know if he even believes what he says anymore. I don't think he can do anything else
I just don't get why anybody watches "The amazing atheist." His screaming is very unpleasant to listen to. I've never been able to get through even one of his videos.
❤
_"You look like an action figure that was put into a microwave for 30 seconds."_  Okay, to be fair, that was a pretty unique and clever insult amongst all the repetitious transphobic horseshit.
I’m sorry Contra, but I have to disagree.   Milo, although being a teenager at the time, made himself a target by posting on YouTube. I understand that the argument is that TJ Kirk should lay off because of Milo’s relatively short tenure and age.   BUT...  I view this platform as no different than if there was no internet & Milo + TJ had to do this on a wooden box on a sidewalk. If you post on a public forum, you receive public criticism. I don’t like it either, but freedom of expression is a double edged sword.
you‘re too smart to be on YouTube
I am a fan of TJs but I totally agree about how stupid he is in most of his anti SJW videos .
Telling people to commit suicide - seriously? How is this video still up? Perhaps people are flagging you because you're encouraging viewers to end their lives /:
Never stop doing what you are doing, and continue to fight the good fight against the alt-right.
You gotta admit. His hair is gorgeous. I agree with your points Contra. I like TJ but I can completely see how this can be bullying.
I mean, in some cases Imperialism DID lead to cissexism and heteronormativity. The third gender traditions of Polynesia and some Native American tribes were  brutally suppressed by European conquerors.
I was looking at some videos from Milo and the poor soul's videos get far more dislikes and than likes. I have a lot of respect for her to not feel discouraged by these barbaric, bigoted fuckers.
Disagreement with the trans narrative isnt transphobia
I feel bad that I used to watch his videos when I was a 13 yo shitlord
Nothing says "I'm a mature, reasonable, confident adult" like yelling at teens on the internet when you disagree with them!!!But seriously, I think these dudes might need a hug and a therapist.
I disagreed with pretty much everything Milo said, but I so agree with this video.
I think Milo's biggest problem is something that characterizes a lot of SJW videos and the perspectives that both the content creators and those that follow them share, and that's a callous disregard for people's feelings, ironic given the propensity of anti-SJWs to harp on SJWs for being concerned with the emotional over the "factual." In Milo's case, it's evidenced by the stated lack of care for people's "cis feelings" but it's also evident in this very video where ContraPoints likens people taking umbrage with someone saying "I don't care about your cis feelings" to a swarm of locusts.  It seems counter intuitive and, dare I say, "problematic", for people whose intent seems to be getting people to recognize social inequalities and when they're contributing to them, consciously or unconsciously, and to be more sympathetic to the plight of marginalized groups, to then turn around and go "but you don't deserve any sympathy from us, shitlords. Boohoo, go cry some more male/white/straight/cis tears."
I’m an atheist feminist. Please don’t juge the most vocal atheist
Finally someone who says that anti-sjw’s are an echo-chamber. They’re so hypocritical
nerds arent more fair to other reviled people because often they dont see their mistreatment as unfair, in a status sense. many people come from hierarchical environments and dont realize it, or how it plays into what their view is of right or wrong.
Silence of the lambs ending hahaha 😂,...one puts the lotion in the basket, ...Yikes.  Solid points in the video though thumb's up 👍.
She attacked other people, so they attacked back....what's hard to get about this? You just are biased towards trans people. Clearly showing a lack of logic and calm headedness. Very emotional. Maybe it's the hormones?
Why do you not have more subscribers?
Most of the people who watch these 'sceptics' are complete knuckle-dragging, reactionary mouth-breathers.
We all have implicit biases no matter what. Only some of us aren't oblivious enough to admit our faults. And by some I mean too many. Not to sound cliche, but unless you admit there's a problem... it's the inconvenient truth that gets ppl tbh.
50/50 likes and dislikes. This is quality content :)
Oh is that the person who defended some troll who claimed to be "kin" with hitler
The idea that people are still listening to TAA is baffling to me. He's one of those internet personalities of days past where you just assume they stopped or died or something after a while. Hell, people are still surprised when Maddox puts something out. (It's still weird seeing him skinny, btw)
I learned a Long Time Ago that the self appointed, and self described, Champions of Free Thought, Reason, and Science are not Rational, do not Think for themselves, and only use Science when its convenient as a prop.  I know because I love to study Religion ad got a degree in it.  And I know because even if I didn't get a degree in Religion, I can remember things, and know all the arguments by heart ow.   The "SKeptic" Community is really just a gaggle of Anti-Authoritarian Liberals quoting back talking points derived from the 19th Century Freethought movement. But when they bullied "Religious people'  everyone cheered.  It's only wrong when they go after SJW's, or Gays, or Transgenders...   Come now, we all knew all along they were bullies who enjoyed hurting others and feeling superior, and we all knew they operated via abusive and ridicule, we just thought it as good when it was aimed at Christians.   And perhaps Muslims, depending on our politics.
Didn't watch the whole first video. This one seems better. You seem nice, Contra. I hope to collaborate with you in the future. When I feel comfortable in my transition.
With a wide range of comments on your page, I can easily tell you that the one's triggered are only proving your point, en masse.
Milo's talking points definitely would not have gone over well in activist circles lmao. People would likely just not correct him cause he's TRYING to say the right thing. But it's pretty obvious he doesn't really know what he's talking about. Like he just recently got into leftist theory and is just spouting off every bullshit claim. "Imperialism leads to heteronormativity". No, Milo. Biology leads to heteronormativity. I'm an anarcho-communist. As anti-imperialist as it gets. But what you're saying is unrelated and honestly kinda retarded.
I've been receiving criticism like this on the internet since I was 16 and I didn't disable comments or delete videos or hide in a safe space. If you get offended by something someone said to you on the internet, you probably shouldn't be on the internet.
I thought this was a well thought out and spoken video. I agree with your critiques about Milo -- he is a teenager, he uses rhetoric accepted in social justice circles but not outside of them, and putting that he doesn't care about cisgender feelings in his description was a mistake. I think when Milo gets older he will learn better. I like that you didn't just defend Milo but had good critiques of him. Thing is there will always be bullies, unfortunately if you post online with strong opinions you will get backlash and assholes saying really stupid pointless things. People online don't care if you're 17 or 37. And it happens on both sides. (Also I can't believe The Amazing Atheist is still going, I remember him from when *I* was 17!!)
Holy fuck. I was a fan of TJ 10+ years ago but have been avoiding him for the last 5 or so. I really don't miss him.   In other news, I agree with everything you say in this video. Hilarious (but not) how so many people try to frame bullying as criticism. This is especially (and depressingly) noticeable within the youtube community.
You might wanna stop taking youtube comments as serious political discussion
2/3 of your examples of evil non western civilisations were either formed as a result of british/american action or have been hugely influenced by them.
<3
Everyone is a bit racist wasn't his point. Milo said all WHITE people are racist and all MEN are misogynistic and all cis-gendered people are transphobic.  Nothing was said about blacks, gays, women or trans.  You're cleaning up her argument.
I am so grateful for you Contra finally someone is calling out the unbelievable hypocrisy on youtube xxx Keep up the great work!
Great video.
Intentionally calling Milo a girl, making death threats, and tossing out the occasional rape joke, are not a sign of a person who wants to be educated. It's the defensive behavior of people who won't admit that they have a problem, so they shit on anyone who points out these major issues that keep the U.S. in a cycle of white supremacy and white denial. A person who wants to do some self-reflection about the way white people have internalized racism-- because we're indoctrinated into a society that perpetuates it-- wouldn't go to such lengths to destroy anyone's reputation and cause them so much pain. The putrid response videos on YouTube about Milo swiftly became excessive; people totally missed the point, and didn't get the message: admit that you have a problem and deal with your subconscious biases.
maybe pick a video that doesn't insult swathes of people for this argument? milo slung a loooot of shit all over the potentially decent topic.
He just seems like such a little kid... I cannot imagine going after such a kid.
perhaps you missed the obvious point that more people agree with anti-SJWs than they do with SJWs? a consensus is not the same thing as a safe space. i disagree with plenty of anti-SJWs on some things, but i agree with them on most things. i can agree with SJWs on some things, but i disagree with most of what they say. at least the anti-SJWs aren't afraid of discussion and can admit when they are objectively wrong on a subject. Sargon has done it plenty of times. never seen an SJW channel even entertain the idea that they might be wrong. many SJW channels will have the ratings disabled. anti-SJW channels never do. that is very indicative about the quality of arguments on both sides. also most of the "transphobia" or any other kind of phobia in the comments is SJW channels like you grasping at straws and taking the bait with troll comments. usually when someone calls Milo an "it", they are purposefully trying to offend you. and it works. Milo was actually serious about her statement that all cis people are transphobic, all white people are racist etc. clearly that's not gonna be received well.
I think to some extent that people like Milo Stewart get a massive backlash because people in the atheistic community of YouTube are sick and tired of SJWs and Feminists saying irrational things and having a dominant smugness to them, as if they spent years of studying to learn about a certain topic, while really they just watched someone else's video on YouTube and made their opinions their own.  I will agree that the more famous atheists on YouTube can sometimes be a bit flamboyant and/or vitriolic. As far as TheAmazingAtheist goes, that's just his internet personality. I agree that it's not a good approach to try to convince others who oppose you of your opinion when you're being shouty and cursing, but if you are going to participate in YouTube debating, you better be ready to take cursing and shouting with a grain of salt and act like someone who knows the heat of the kitchen when you get into it, else you should stay out.  I haven't seen a lot of your stuff but I like your mild tone, and I certainly wish more people (of both parts) would try to keep their level down. As for TAA, I believe he's an entertainer, so he needs to keep up his personality so people don't get bored, so he can make money off of YouTube. After all, he doesn't like doing physical labor.
Fucking Facts!
I herd Louis c.k say the same thing and know one cared.
Eh, how is a youtube comment section a safe space? People constantly call these people out on their bullshit, you just don't want to acknowledge that, since it goes against your whole argument. The fact is: these people don't remove comments, they don't block them either, and sometimes even respond to negative criticism and own up to the mistakes in the video. Unlike you know, SJWs who disable comments quite frequently.
I agree, I am kind of racist against Slavs.
There are socks everywhere on this channel.
Huh, well I'm usually sub myself but I would love to restrain and hurt you.
saying that his audience is brainless fuckig insects is bullying
I wish I could give more thumbs up.
Contra, as a 42 year old white married man I applaud you.  I like how you think, as for the costumes, I like your German and Japanese friends.   Drink on
This is a late comment but like.. the way so called "rationals" treat people they disagree with or (heavens forbid) are offended by horrifies me. They bully, and make irrational comments like tell a 17 year old to go kill themselves, (which is pretty irrational to me...) because they make a video that slightly hurts their feelings by saying they have biases due to the society they were raised in. (And they're the ones that say feminists get 'triggered'.)  Not to mention that a lot of the rationals that reply to these types of videos, mostly of young people voicing their opinions that will change as they grow, are like 30+ years old. They've had far more time to develop their worldview than some 17 year old on the internet.
You reap what you sow. I have no sympathy for Milo.
I just fell in love with you Haha
i agree. milo dose say some extreme things but there is a little truth in what she says and she is very young. cut the kid some slack.
Tbh Milos video was not a good example of the anti sjw community.  It went viral for the fact that trolls and theworst of the worst were watching it.  If you say extreme claims like that no shit your going to get backlash especially if it goes viral in the troll community.  Also i think it is worth noting that a lot of people at the time have never seen a non binary trans person who passes completly female, makes no attempt to look male and calles themselves male.  People are bound to be confused.
did you used to have an atheist channel a long time ago? and do you play the violin?
Oh, I'm NOT the first person to realize that these guys are basically Rush Limbaugh/Glenn Beck/Bill O'Reilly for millennials.  Cool.
I feel sorry for Milo. If these people where as rational as they claim to be, someone should've sat, dissected his points, and tutored him on how to approve. I think the scariest part is, I would've been one of those brainless insects at one point in time. I'm worried how shitty I would've been just 2 years ago, or just 1 year ago before I looked beyond the Rationales.
The critics weren't "so mad at being called transphobic, that they became transphobic." They HAPPEN to be picking on a crazy YouTuber who spouts bs and unintelligible points, and they HAPPEN to be trans.  Milo's critics didn't also go around shitting on real transgender people. You said they became transphobic.. no, they lost their shit on an awful youtuber.
Anti-SJW-YouTubers are just bullies. They pick a video of extreme nonsense by someone that noone knows or cares about, and then gang up on them, insulting them and sending thousands of trolls to them. Who is Milo Stewart anyway? Why should i care about her?  Even worse, they don't just cherrypick. They also portray strawmen in ridiculous degrees. Like claiming, that feminists love islamists or that these extreme cases of black nationalists or some campus radicals are somehow representative. And yes, they don't attract skeptics. Just people that revel in the fact, that they dislike things and people that are different, not because they have analyzed their thinking well. It's sexist gaming culture mixed with right-wing extremism.  The skeptic crowd that used to exist is now just a circlejerk of right-wing extremists that claim to be skeptics, but the crowds are entirely different. YouTubers get famous easily by being racist, sexist or transphobic. You don't need no talent or fine thought to get loads of money, you just have to attack liberals. So why would you not do that, if you are living in your basement playing games? It's easy money, you just have to give up part of your moral compass for it.
Your attention to the nuance of radical ideas is refreshing
I like the amazing atheist sometimes but I do think he resorts to purely ridicule too often, and you did bring up some good points in this video.
He owned her ass and she deserved it.
Its called comedy...HELLLOOOOOO
Like comment subscribe
Such a good video. Its clear that only antisjw videos thumbs this down.
You thought that people who were victimized (nerds who were bullied) would then REFUSE the opportunity to be the victimizers themselves? You don’t understand people very well, do you?
good but as old as time itself thought, at 4:03 ?
okay now I've binged watched all of them, thank you this cheered me up while I had a cold :)     Some of your videos I think would get more exposure if they started neutral and then slowly descended into absurdity or just the usual existentialism that you do pretty well. And maybe make them clickbaity like philip defranco.  Also you're really good at making various well researched high concept arguments into easily digestible, accessible and entertaining chunks.
you spills waaay to much of sacred booth for an alcoholic
Totally superficial observation here, but the contrast and expression and body language between Milo and TJ is interesting. If you took each video, muted them, and played them for folk not familiar with either personality, and asked them which they thought was throwing a tantrum....
Tend to agree on most points and yes generalizing about the 'West' isn't good, but by the same token talking about Western Imperialism -especially from the US - and neocolonialism is often still relevant.
Woah I've never really liked a youtuber before this. What have I become?
Contra, I really do find you to be quite the moderate SJW, which is refreshing in what often feels like a sea of radicals who want to flip every table instead of approaching topics with a willingness to discuss and reconsider positions.  Thanks, and keep doing what you do.  Also, fuck TJ a little bit.  He has points sometimes, but he's also a Devon Tracey collaborator and said Jake Lloyd should die from an STI when bitching about the SW prequels.  His content is very much the junk food of the anti-SJW side of things: enjoyable to consume in the moment, but probably not that great for your long-term health.
I came from the amazing atheist and when I came to this channel, I instantly got cancer.
"Milo isn't communicating his ideas perfectly..."  No. He communicated them perfectly. That's why plenty of people, myself included, found what he said revolting and ignorant. Sans crude/ridiculous/hateful comments.  Up-voted comments do not reflect "general audience" opinion. The highest comment on this video is only about 0.75% of the audience. The vitriol and hateful nonsense comes from the minority, whether it's from the SJW or anti-SJW or wherever side of things. There is always vitriol.  I've seen both videos (though it's been ages since), and what I remember the most was Milo's positively absurd claims. The claims where countered, and I dare say ridiculed so obtusely because they were so patently clueless. Milo is a 'kid' indeed.  TJ has a particular style. I enjoy it. Some people have the antithesis of his style, and I often enjoy those as well. You get a little bit of everything.  Ridicule tends to have a harsher tone. Most people don't need or want to watch a step by step formal argument as to why person X's video was wrong. I've been tempted to make channel with videos like that, but the result will inevitably be something with the charisma and energy of a wet piece of sandstone. It won't garner attention. So people go with ridicule.
It's amazing to what lengths people will defend an ideology that simplicizes any difficulty imaginable and empowers the individual as the righteous underdog. I, too, remember how my life was really easy because I didn't have to actively work towards understanding another person and the complex life they had. And because of it, I didn't read any books (hell I was kind of proud that I didn't), I thought I was innocent for everything and could do no wrong except for people who didn't know my intentions, and I set the bar really low for myself in terms of hygiene and comprehension skills. Not to mention I had a whole range of amateur theories to complete my view of the world for how humans work. I thought I was hot shit.  I look back, seeing the cage I built for myself - the excuses that kept me contained, the low standards that made it cozy, and nevertheless how I rejected myself from all the complex pleasures that every other normal person seemed to have had. Not surprisingly, I thought I was better off for not being normal because I thought everyone else was in the wrong. I used every little device in my head to make me feel like I knew what I was talking about, and I had crafted a centrist position to avoid being criticized for the sake of preserving my ego.  At what point can people like me stop building their cages and actually build themselves up? What did you DO for yourself? Why does most of your pride come from what you DIDN'T DO? To me that's a sad standard to place on yourself and anyone who disagrees with "you." But who are "you," really? If you reduce yourself as this perfectly designed logical cage, then you haven't really done anything for yourself. Then if anyone attacks you, it will not be because we don't understand you, but that we want to free you from what has kept "you" hostage.  But all too easily, any efforts to undo such a cage are met with hostility. And unfortunately that, too, is understandable. Who would want to be taken away from their home reality after it has offered so much for so little?
you rock, mate.
3:50 do you not remember Revenge of the Nerds? They're just intelligent and unattractive assholes.
Honestly I don't thing you're really that dumb. I think you made this video intentionally dumb and misguided in order to fish for views. This is honestly genius and kinda disgusting.
Ok, I guess The Amazing atheist was a bit too rude. So fucking what? Every point he makes is on point. How do you expect me to listen to someone claiming I'm sexist and racist JUST because I'm white??? And not get mad??
there were probably reasonable responses but they're not the ones that get likes
these sjws spouting off this nonsense are socially retarded. Yeah I used that word. It is true. The state prefers you to be big babies who won't revolt against tyranny and instead bitch and cry about it.
Milo is one of the worst. Sorry. That one and the others who just stir shitstorms deserve what they get. They want the revenue from the views and attention so have at it, but keep it to here and nothing actionable ffs... also, why any advertiser would accept trash content like that over reviews or alt news escapes me.
these turds are instigators. They ALL should be slapped. Milo is a seething, antagonistic twerp who should know better than to make such scathing generalized claims.
I agree with everything you are saying. Reading all the nonsense SJW write in Tumblr I really started to dislike them... like a lot! Then I went on YouTube and was relieved to see there are many people who also thinks that SJWs are saying a lot of nonsense. But at the end, I ended up disliking the Anti-SJWs even more for the reasons you pointed out. I mean, why do they have to attack them that much? Don´t they have more important things to say?
Anti-sjw comment sections are often echo chamber but that is totally different than having  university mandated safe spaces.
Your videos are really well edited and put together.  The intro's are awesome. Wish other talking heads took more time and effort. Keep on.
Thoroughly enjoying seeing the brainless fucking insects in this comment section trying to rationalise their behaviour. Next time you think of writing a comment here, try to imagine some actual adult person you know reading it. Then resign in shame.
TJ is objecting to being called racist... by being actively and overtly racist... um...
I get Nazi comments (from actual anti-Semites) on my videos everyday. It's not fun but I keep going despite the hate. I disagree with Milo on a lot and I agree that it would be nicer if people engaged in a less antagonistic way. At the same time, sometimes addressing the hate only inflames it. It's not always clear when it should be addressed and when it should be ignored.
You are my favorite SJW, great job on original content.
I ain't no friend of SJW's but these Johnny Come Lately skeptics are all Alt Right white supremacists who switched hustle after atheist tit went dry.  Now they're panhandling for donations on anti-feminist platform.
I'm only here to say that the word "insect" is not an offense. Insects are diverse, opportunistic creatures with beautiful evolutionary quirks and complex behaviors, and their successfulness puts mammals to utter shame. That is all.
You should buy Vinjak. It's a much better beverage for aspiring alcoholics.
I left YouTube years ago because I tired of the directionless ranting and bullying (I don't suppose you remember my old username, OrgasmandTea?). I've only returned because I'm hoping for some decent commentary from you Nick :D  You hinted at the financial benefits of shitlording over vulnerable channels, but I don't think you really got to the bottom of the issue - these channels are financially dependant on causing the insects to buzz. They are so locked in now, they simply cannot stop or they'll suddenly have to get real jobs.   It's interesting how their desperation mimicks conventional media, which is likewise losing legitimacy as it struggles to survive.
why call them anti-SJW? They are SJWs too
I call bullshit. You didn't *really* pour out all that whisky.
Weird. Why are there so many dislikes. Probably because they just disagree with you and point out their disagreements in comments and not because one of the youtubers responded to this video and the mouthbreeders who watch him came here. Yeah, thats probably why.  I'm glad there is finally a youtube channel that doesn't just circlejerk and copy other content creators. The presentation might have some similarities to other channels but atleast you bring up different opinions and that is what is most important.
Oh shit 10,000 people accidentally clicked subscribe
I think that Milos argument was wrong and those he sighted where extremely racist But those in the comments that want milo to die are going way to far.  Can't we have a tolerant conversation about social justice instead of ranting  And insulting
All this comments proving the point in the conclusion of the video made me subscribe to this channel.
It's not 2008, anymore dude. People seldom disagree respectfully anymore and it has been this way for a long time. I can understand your confusion, you haven't done this in over 7-years. A LOT has happened since then. You've unsuspectingly stumbled into a veritable dystopian future after awakening from a veritable coma. Youtube now has a culture and it's not pretty. It's like corporatism in the vids and the slums in the comments sections. However, you are blatantly misrepresenting TJ. I've watched all of his videos and you're quoting him out of context. What he's doing is not "bullying," it's comedic retort.
If I ever saw Milo I would point at her and scream IN YOUR FACE TOILET CASE!
<3
Yeah its pretty fucked that a bunch of 30 have enough time on their hands to throw insults and set their "brainless fucking insects" on a gender-confused kid who had almost no following and now has to look at violently (and I do mean violent) hateful comments on every one of their videos. I feel like so-called intellectual free thinkers should have something better to do. Why the hell are people genuinely mad about this shit?
The three comments you showed are hilarious XD
Milo calls all cis people transphobic andvand racist but hey the anti-SJWs who criticize her him it? for doing so are the real bullies.
damn, looks like liberals mobbed this video. just found your channel, loving it, bringing some new perspectives to someone very new to feminism and lgbt issues but looking to learn more. keep up the good work
I guess amazingatheist fans found this
You are one sad strange little trans, the Dread Father ignores your pity.
I don't usually make comments but this is actually the first channel that critically articulates both sides to the point where I've taken a better understanding into how each side is actually thinking. Thanks
As a pro-social equality, anti-SJW lefty, I think this entire factional clash has gone so completely off the rails. Someone, for the love of God, has to hit a reset button so both sides can clear their heads, get back to the basics, and use plain terms with a commonly understood meaning to prove their points rather than obfuscating using the language of both meme culture and sociological academia respectively. Does anyone even remember the last time a well-defined, objectively testable claim was made in this sphere of argument on either side? I don't.
Thing is, Milo is just young and naive, if you just ignore her he'll grow over the insane part; as long as you don't validate it by attacking him.
I want to hone in on a bit of this argument about implicit bias and racism. Maybe I can buy implicit bias, like that described in blink (M. Gladwell). Maybe. And I think I'd apply a little more skepticism.  But that kind of bias doesn't approach deserving of the title "racist". So, say you can prove that I have a gut level reaction to people of different ethnicity. Differentiate that from a deeply held conscious belief about race. Differentiate that even further into actions taken on the basis of this belief. I am offended at being called a racist even if I acknowledge the possibility of implicit bias because my second order beliefs contradict my implicit bias. "saying you're racist isn't an insult" is just ignorant. Of course racist is an insult. People are using it as an insult all over the media. Some people in academia decided we should change the definition of racism to include things that aren't even conscious and also apply some standard of a power relationship, then they taught it to a bunch of idealist teenagers. Those teenagers are now going around using their new "knowledge" to "teach" people by stereotyping them and shaming them for facts of birth and the misapplication of some vague experimental results. Of course you shouldn't threaten to rape someone for doing such a thing, but you should certainly call them out on it. There's a lot of variation on both sides of this debate, but I think it's about time that both sides start policing their own idiots. I really don't know if it's fair to expect TJ to make a video condemning the remarks of his fans when they pay his rent and he never asked for or condoned the activity, but somebody has to do it. Somebody also needs to find a non-threatening way to tell these children not to call people racists.
I remember seeing this conflict when it first occurred. The difficulty with online blogs is that the internet thrives on a kind of constant exaggeration. I take almost everything I see in the digital realm with a mountain of salt because so many people are using the word "genocide" when "inconvenience" would have suited fine. Even if I wanted to, I could never separate the real zealots from the giant mass of avatars that's just having a lark in Compuland. On this very channel, the host is presented as an alcoholic sex fiend. Not that I care either way, but that's probably an exaggeration. I think this new generation of internet denizens is having to learn through harsh experience what my generation knew more innately(largely because we just spent less of our time online.) Most people treat the internet has a world of trivial things. Its simply a break from the "real world". Now that people are spending more time in the digital realm, they are indulging the fallacy that this realm has become more substantive. This fallacy has been enhanced by the creme of the internet crop(Think GRArkada or Channel Awesome.) who often produce superior content to anything in broadcast or even cable media. But for the most part, that's an elite minority. Visiting Compuland?  Back up your salt truck.
There's a lot of hate in these comments. So here's something a little different: Good video. :)
Trolls found this one. They all thumbs downed it to prove that antisjws are the real ones in echo chambers
I appreciate you. This is like a breath of fresh air.
Few people on this site care about integrity because they're all in it for the sweet ad revenue dollars.
This is like the mildest criticism I've seen on Youtube so far. Then you look at the like bar. Who is it that needs a safe space again? I mean shit, you even defended TL;DR and gave him a point for being open minded to a different view and yet...
A significant portion of your argument is about Milo's age. You make being 17 sound like being 7. When I was 17, I had already started taking college classes in high school and I had already dealt with a woman I met online who brainwashed me and literally tried to kill a friend of mine. You're infantilizing someone who's almost legally an adult.
Loved this video.  You're bashing on the anti-sjw community is a bit curious though. Would you consider yourself an sjw then? Or are you more neutral in the mix?  Nevertheless, you are right. Sargon, AmazingAtheist, Bearing... all of them end up falling too far down the rabbit hole at some point. Instead of being clear and neutral like you, they start to abstract and de-humanize the very same people they claim were dehumanizing them. Happens to the best of them. As I watch more recent videos from Sargon, I realize that he's making arguments I'd never really make and really becoming less level-headed and more mean to these people.  I do also agree that people should cut Milo Stewart some slack, as you said. Though, when you're video is called "you're racist and transphobic if you're cisgendered", this is a very bold claim that is highly loaded and just plain mean. It's not going to get a good response. And then you claim that they need a safe space because when they post these kinds of videos, they get the nasty comments that they do. Well. Yeah. I guess they would, wouldn't they? I guess I'd need a safe space too if I started calling people obscene things.  Though I do see what Milo meant. They weren't using these words as insults, as they go to explain and you even show. Instead, Milo's using them as a sort of "for lack of better words" words and trying to give them different connotations. And to this extent, they're (Milo) right. We are all a little racist and sexist and whatever else, but only to the extent of social conditioning, as opposed to anything actually vulgar and explicit.   tl;dr, I like watching your videos as now you've sort of become the new neutral and level-headed one, surpassing people who were once genuine like the anti-sjw community and are now just bullies. And all though we should cut Milo some slack as they are only 17, they also literally called a video "you're transphobic if you're cis-gendered", and all though they had different intentions for this than what many people recognize, that's still a real fucking bold and mean statement that will not go over well. The mean comments MIlo got aren't unwarranted, but then, nothing ever really is. Not excusing the crazy shit people say online. Jesus. But I'm just trying to offer my 25cents to the examination of it all.
And I should care why exactly?
I had to sit through all that, I was 16 when I did my first videos. I really feel bad for Milo, if only people had some fucking empathy on the internet.
I WUZ ERE 2 - I 2 SAW THE INSANITY IN THIS FERMENTING CESSPOOL WORLD.
Totally agree!
Why are so many people SO ANGRY though????? Like...what's going on over there that I'm not aware of? (By "over there" I mean so-called 'first-world countries' where these shit-storms seem to be taking root and flourishing). That's not to say that the third-world doesn't have its share of problems, but it is almost heartbreaking to see societies that I used to look up to, destroying themselves from the inside with all this hatred. That's the thing that I just can't get. Why are people so angry? Why do "white people" (I'm using the term, because it's what most people will understand) feel victimized? What do you have to be angry about? Like, I'm genuinely asking. Not in the way like "well what do *you* have to be angry about?!" but I'm genuinely curious...  What does a white guy in Norway have to be angry about???? Is your life really THAT tough? Are things really going THAT bad? I know, I know, it sounds ignorant, but excuse my incredulity. I'm genuinely curious. I know that life is tough for everybody, but even I - as a "black woman" from a "third-world country" with a certain degree of education and financial stability - can acknowledge that my life is pretty privileged.
If someone on the street told me I was a racist, sexist and a homophobe, I would tell them to go fuck themselves, eat shit and die. And on the internet I should be nicer because, why exactly?
2:22 Is the top commenter the former Blackburn Rovers defender Ryan Nelson?
dude your videos are dynamite keep em comin
It is true milo said some stupid stuff but they really went overboard with a child.
I have to kind of object to the objection you makes about SJWs use of "western society"; Personally I haven't seen that many remotely sensible SJWs who actually argues that "western society" is worse... sure, there are some issues with cultural relativism and shit in this are... but mostly it's, as Milo says, just to not try to apply stereotypical views on other cultures of which these individuals do not have any experience of. An American who never left the country would probably not have an applicable view of how gender is seen and applied in, for example, India. Making claims about western societies (north america, europe and (i guess o.O) australia?) rather than the entire world makes a lot more sense due to the shared cultural history. Humans are fucking weird and speaking of culture and trends is even weirder, especially if you try to make arguments that are generally applicable for all of the human race.  Other than that: Awesome videos, going through your backlog atm!
you have become my favourite youtuber and it sucks to see people disliking your videos and shitposting in the comments. that being said, i really appreciate what you have to say and i love how you go about everything in a calm manner, but also try to see more than one point of view of an argument. please never get discouraged, the world needs more people like you. you inspire me.
I drink supermint tea in your honor.
I thought he was gonna tell the truth but then he started an trail of denial
Holy shit watching Milo's video was one of the cringiest things I've put myself through, and I'm honestly not surprised that someone like TJ would pick that video as the basis for a hate-fest. His entire business model relies on exposing online nobodies saying dumb shit to a torrent of dudes who think that being mad online makes them smart.
Haha, so because ratings are better on Anti SJW videos, and they are bad on SJW videos, that means that people always gang up on sjws ? Maybe it has something to do with the CONTENT? SJWs and 3rd wave feminists make shitty arguments and behave like morons, so of course people will call it out.
Yeah, because Milo is the one that´s oppressed ? He called all white people racist, and he get´s backlash for it, what the fuck ? LIKE THAT WOULD NEVER HAPPEN?
Am I the only one who thinks Rush Limbaugh is actually TJ from the future, sent back to prevent the SJW Wars? Anyone?
Sorry to tell you, criticism is never bullying.  If you can't handle criticism then you should probably get off the Internet considering everyone has a right to their own opinions...   And don't get me started on a safe space, there's no such thing, newsflash, you're not fucking special, the world doesn't care about any of our feelings.    Suck it up buttercup, that or go live in a hole somewhere, that can be your safe space.
Ok, so big anti-SJW channels getting decent like/dislike ratios automatically means the community is a "circle-jerk"? It couldn't possibly be that the majority of viewers thought they made good and coherent arguments, hmm?  Just wanted to point that out, because it seemed biased to me, although there were also some good points being made in this video, especially in regards to the typical black-or-white assessment of Milo's viewpoints (from both "camps").  I didn't see any compelling argument here as to why the other channels that you used as examples here are bullies, if that is indeed your contention. And yes, I realize that you wanted to focus on TJ in this, but a YouTuber specifically known for being flippant, hyperbolic and deliberately offensive might not be the best example to use for the kind of response Milo and other comparable channels have been getting. I couldn't honestly say TJ responded more abrasively to Milo's video than he did in any other response he's made. The point about Milo being a minor at this point in time has some legitimacy, sure, but Milo didn't really start making a point of this until after he started receiving backlash against his videos, so it's entirely possible that TJ, and a number of other people who responded to Milo might not have known this, but I don't know this for certain, of course. Generally though, I think that when you join into the public debate you should expect to be on the same level of everyone else and not demand exemption from harsh criticism because you're legally speaking still a minor (Also, a 17-year old is not a "child" in the same sense as, say for instance, a young teen).  I'd like to add as an aside, that I'm completely opposed to the "SJW Cringe" videos directed at channels like Milo's, which are mostly made by a bunch of bandwagon-jumping trolls, but I don't think that kind of stuff represents the general MO of anti-SJW content creators.
"No, you're oppressing me by not letting me oppress you." It's like the Christian victim complex wrapped much differently.
eh, i'm younger than milo and if i said even close to the amount of bullshit milo does i would expect to get "BuLliEs" on my comment section. milo fucked up, and you get shitty comments when you pull something like he did. his age is NO excuse, plenty of people in the anti sjw sphere had substantive rebuttals rather than name calling and jokes. still, i think if people like bearing or whoever want to name call they're more than welcome. nobody is in the place to police their content unless it is ACTUALLY harmful to someone, which so far it hasn't been.
Wow, I have enjoyed reading this comments section. It's like a modern Monty Python sketch manifest in angry comments. A joy to behold.    https://www.youtube.com/shared?ci=3ZNwvkV9jqc
when you put yourself all the way out there you make it feasible for people to say whatever they want to say it wasn't that got hit by an ass hole or not on YouTube if you don't want to be judged don't be on YouTube if you don't want to deal with the hate don't put yourself in the line of fire just saying
The amazing atheist is amazing and Milo is, alas not
The way people treat Milo is insane. That's literally the only video of his I've seen and it amounts to the blatantly obvious advice that "everyone has implicit biases and we should be aware of them" and yet you have The Rationals™ picking on a child because he says something that ~offends~ them. What's more, just like with Anita, there's this massive well poisoning where all my level headed SJW friends say how terrible and wrong Milo is, despite that video essentially having the most entry level social justice talking point. Even these comments here. It's like people don't actually want to watch the video in question and internalize it. Any nuance is swept away and "he calls everyone he disagrees with a racist and sexist!". Since I'm clearly watching these out of order, it's like you say in the video about how you became a feminist SJW: I guess if you don't want to be brainwashed, don't ever expose yourself to viewpoints you disagree with.
Looks like the brainless fucking insects found your video. My sincerest apologies to your inbox.
Man...you are a hereo...just watching the clips of the so called atheists assholes you disect I feel the need to throw up...and you actually watch them and analyze them...my respects
Great video.  Honestly, I feel sorry for this Milo guy.  He's bubbly and goofy.  His writing outline video was awkward, cute, and probably unintentionally funny.  Certainly not deserving of 2,000+ dislikes.
Nice Move, Taking TJs point out of context. *slowly claps*
Stop painting milo as the victim and people who disagree with him as bad guys. The whole world isn't against you.
Wow, I'm really surprised at how angry this comment section is. By behaving badly, you're just proving Contra right. While I'm not an SJW, you can't deny that anti-SJWs can be just as hateful and aggressive.
I keep you are fucking girls i don't care
JW red label? What happened to the Laphroig?
why are all the comments you showed trolls
Good video. You're so right about the bullying tidbit where the only people saying all this shit are nerds. Go up to any normie and they won't give a shit about what some kid said on the Internet. Go up to some gaming fat dude or skinny twig with glasses and they'll have an entire awkward spiel about social justice warriors because their only social interactions are on the Internet. These people are rightly mocked in real life. YouTube, Reddit and AspieChan are their safe spaces and if you make a social justice video, they get triggered. I know this sounds like a strawman but come on, their entire arguments are based on strawmans.
I used to like the Amazing Atheist. Then I became an adult. ;)
leafy told me to witchhunt
So, white people have no thoughts and feelings? They were a collected hive mind? No wonder they have done so well for so long! Jesus and here I was thinking that there would be some common sense in this. The anti SJW's videos are not bullying, the same would have happened to anyone who said that gay people are going to burn in hell. People on the comment section would have called out on the person's bullshit. If Milo Stewart wants to make himself a target by saying and doing the things he says other people shouldn't do then it's not anyone's fault. The term is not bullying, it's called blowback.
frankly you frighten me on a visual level and I figure we'd not match on most "life opinions" sorry tired best I can do to describe my thoughts.  However subscribed, so far you're a logical counter point to my life opinions and will be watching for just that reason.
You picked the few coherent things Milo said and cherry picked them to make your point.  How about highlighting the parts where Milo right out generalizes entire groups of people as if they're a giant hive mind, and not individuals?  Why not criticize Milo for how obviously bigoted and hateful his argument is?  No matter how nice Milo sounds, the video is terrible.  Not a single coherent point is made throughout, and to be quite honest I have no idea how Milo came to any of these conclusions.    Even after watching the whole thing I have no idea what his point is other than to troll the shit out of everybody on the planet.  Here's a tip though:  When you're trying to make a point, it's not usually a good idea to use the phrase "I don't know what that means."  You don't even know how much sense Milo's comment made, if any, yet you're trying to white Knight him?    I dislike feminist videos because their arguments make little, or not sense, and they tend to make illogical points.  Their entire movement is based very little on fact, and is more based on feelings.  I watched Milo's entire video to try and consider his point, but all it really comes off as is hate speech.   By the way, I disliked your video for the same reason.  It makes very little sense.    Let's take your likes vs. dislikes point. Here's a different take on why those numbers are so different.  It's likely more people like anti-feminist videos because they make points based on observations.   Most people gravitate to that.  What most people don't gravitate towards is dramatic over responses, based on emotions instead of empirical evidence.  Lastly, criticism is not bullying.  No matter how much it might hurt your feelings.
Thanks Nyk :)
Even though I disagree with most of this video, You still get a thumbs up for not being whiny.  Such a rarity these days.
I think leafy and daz games. made a good response. they were harsh, as they should have been, but they both told their viewers not to harass milo.
Please get off the internet and let the door hit you on the way out.
dude....c'mon a bigot posts what is essentially a hate speech, gets criticism for it and it's bullying because she's 17 or her channel is smaller! 17 or not if she wants to play with adults then its probably good for her to learn to have thick skin
I barely upvote any videos, so not gonna happen here (and videos that ask for that don't get a like on pure principle, since the content should make me want o do that), but I guess I will watch a few more of your videos before I decide to subscribe here. Anyway, regarding the the criticism or bullying topic of the video: I would suggest that people better try their ideas on other plattforms first and not go to start here on Youtube. I think 4Chan is not bad to start, since one can post there anonym and thus ad hominiem are rather pointless, but people will go more unto the actual argument (even though in a rather rude way, but that is also fine, since it teaches one to deal with criticism without the shame that one has to defend a position even when it is already clear how stupid it was in the first place, since one can simply move on and let that discussion drop into obscurity, and nobody will ever know who posted that crazy shit). But of course there are also worse places one could start, like tumble, where every idiocy seems to be cherished.  Anyway, I think that some people go here quite a bit beyond just criticism, nevertheless I wouldn't call it bullying either. Sure it is rude, but it also teaches people that not every idea they have is good or useful. Anybody participating here better tries to make a solid argument or bring at least some comedic talent, since insulting people and while playing the victim card is not going to fly here or anywhere else in the real world. And since I am not ageist, I don't care how old someone is, I will take people just by their arguments and playing the victim when you provoke it yourself then I am not going to defend you. There are plenty of people who are part of all kinds of minorities here on Youtube who nevertheless are capable of making good arguments and rightfully so have plenty of positive feedback.
Well done sir
horse shit on a plate.
transphobia is funny tho.
she.. Milo is a she you fucking cameltoe
You are right, how about we insult you instead you complete moron. When someone steps in the limelight and says as many dumb things as this Milo nut has said then they get what they get. Unfortunately contrapoints you dont have enough listeners to matter. You are what we would call irrelevant. I thought I would stop by and say hi though, since you sound so damn lonely.
https://youtu.be/prdsADeJkLU
I don't get why The Blair witch project made all that money .... its terrible !!!!
This video is very reasonable and makes tons of great points, so naturally, everyone hates it.
teenage or not racism is still racism
Oh good grief, another poo poo eater who smears makeup on his face.
How the hell do you know exactly that all commenters on milo's video are nerds?   And you mock nerds as if they didn't have the world by the balls today in 2016.   How do you know exactly that all comets were mean? Did you read them all? Really?  I call bullshit.
In what world does free speech mean you have to agree and show compassion for someone's point? Oh wait, there isn't one, because free speech is saying whatever you want to say, (just not death/rape/etc. threats, don't do that) even if someone disagrees with it, and it is completely okay to disagree and argue with someone, in fact, debating and arguing can make someone even more open minded and more intelligent on issues that are important, like the issues with women wanting something like a Holocaust on men. If I use your logic, than I guess you should be compassionate and open about the "Anti-SJWs" and should agree with their opinion. There are some, but very few, points Milo makes that I agree with, but I agree more with the "AntiSJWs" because they actually look at factual research and make validated points with evidence of such point. So let me ask you again, in what world does free speech mean we have to agree with all opinions
omfg are that dumb
are you trans? or just fab fashion sense?
Maybe some of our criticism can get out of hand, but the point of free speech is being able to say anything but still face the social consequences of our actions. That is why banning people from websites and stopping the right of intellectual discourse does not help, as only people that are actually damaging people mentally and physically should actually face action like banning from websites or even more severe punishment. Clearly Milo does not care about the comments they receive. Otherwise the video would never have been made.People cannot control other people, and the worst of the commentators will have to face the social consequences of trying to bully and harass Milo. You cannot blame content creators for others actions. That is why your video is so disliked. You are trying to tell others to shut up, something that is impossible because of free speech.
Dude, I may not agree with a lot of the things you say, but wow this is a great video. You've got yourself a new subscriber :)
I was about to subscribe because of your video taking Armored Skeptic to task. I thought it was brilliantly done.  But... the last two videos I watched you hypocritically criticize other YouTubers for how they engage into discourse only to end up doing precisely the thing you criticized them for doing. Pardon the grammar.  You almost had me.
This was SO incredibly refreshing to see. THANK YOU. I can't wait to watch the rest of your videos. Subscribed!
I can agree that the people attacking Milo with hatred aren't helping,  but that's YouTube.  The comments on even the most innocuous videos are usually a shitstorm of idiocy. It's everywhere.  Surely Milo expected this to happen, and openly admits to enjoying offending people.  If she sincerely says shit knowing it'll offend people like accusing an entire race that she herself is a part of is racist,  then I can't and don't feel that bad for her.  Do some people cross the line? Of course,  and that's not acceptable. But she,  and anyone else line her,  absolutely deserve to be called out on their bullshit.
>young idiot provokes people >people bite  HURR GUYS LOOK HOW ABOVE IT ALL I AM. Got yourself a nice little niche there, but you're still a faggot. You peddle terms like "rape culture" which rely on shifting of the goal posts whenever they are discussed. There are not always two valid sides, just like creationism is a reasonable counter-position to evolution.
yer doin it. I like
I'll gladly hear people tell me to kill myself. I'll live just to spite them. :p
"Hark, doth' mine ears decieve'ith me or do I hear a fair trans-damsel in distress?" cried ContraP  to the counsel of White Knights(tm). With a run and a jump ContraP executes a grand jete' while landing on the white knights trusty steed. "Onward, Trigglypuff!" ContraP shouts to his flabby mount, "Social justice will be carried out this day!"
Seriously, that is not how I interpret the Western Society. SJW make sure to say they're talking about it precisely because of the differences between it and the other countries and the problems of other coutnries are much bigger and much harder to fix, especially when you're half a world away.  To me, it seems the problem anti-SJW have with using Western Society is just because it forces them to admit that those are not perfect (even when it comes to racial, gender and LGBTQ issues) and that means they might be part of the problem. And they just can't handle that
Calls a majority of the country racists because of their skin color. Gets backlash for it. She's a victim. Bullshit
god damn, you're retarded
It's almost like you're wrong. OH WAIT THATS CAUSE YOU ARE.
He's 17, he's not in diapers. He can defend himself if he wants. No need for white knight the movie.
I'd like to thank you for having the guts to admit the reason SJWs need safe spaces is because they have unpopular ideas and they need to be shielded from anything that might expose them to contrary thought. In trying to prove they aren't a bunch of cry babies, you actually proved the opposite.
Make more videos. Now! I couldn't think of anything clever. But you better or I'll....
http://youtu.be/3SE8taNFE5o
Yes I came from one of the anti-sjw videos etc. But I couldn't ignore something you said.  You seem to actually believe that having audiences that follow and agree with you is somehow the same thing as a "safe space". This is not the same thing in any way.  While indeed it may bloat the idea of their being correct and the sjws and feminists being incorrect it's almost too obvious that they do not want or use such a pathetic tool.  Bearing himself on multiple occaisions has had others reply negatively to his videos and rather than hiding away in a safe space he replies right back to them and usually ended up in either an agreement or disagreement due to their different PoVs.  How can you call that safe space? The safe space idea is for those to have only those who agree with them around and not to have to respond and argue with those who disagree. Yet many of these people actively encourage argument and invite the idea of being proven incorrect.
WOW!!!! You edited TAA video to completely misrepresent the way that the message was delivered.
don't get on the Internet if you get your feewings hurt easily.
I love Shoe on the head!
Nobody is in a safe space just because more people like them. It's an  indication that the crowd agrees with them. It's not a safe space. A  safe space is when a feminist turns off the comments to avoid getting  blowback and having to read people's comments. Get your comparisons right. Also, Milo is a douche.
I just came by to leave a dislike on your safespace :)
you do realize why people like milo get destroyed in their comment section dont you?he tells us at the beginning of this particular video that he got some of his talking points from two of the biggest racists on youtube and that we should check them out.bottom line is if you say dumb shit no matter who you are youre gonna get hammered.i could go on all day about what a moron the kid is but ive gotta go into the real world and go to work where not everyone is so nice and accepting of whatever i think.much like here.
So people's justification for all this seems to be "The world is a shitty place, therefore it's totally fine for people to harass and bully a 17 year old." In that logic, "The world is a violent place, therefore it's totally fine for me to go out and shoot this person." I'm sorry you people didn't get the love you needed as a child.
Its criticism. 🖕🏻
Just one point because it's likely that every other point I could think of has been made already.  3:00-3:20 is one of the most idiotic things I've ever heard.  Uncensored comment sections are safe spaces Really? Safe space implies they're sheltering themselves from the outside in some way... I mean why do you think there are so many dislikes on the sjw videos? Unless even sjws dislike sjw content, clearly the "anti-sjw's" are freely running around watching videos they disagree with.  The fact that there aren't more dislikes (like barely in the triple digits) on "anti-sjw" videos is a testament to how unwilling the average sjw is to hearing differing opinions.
Milo is not the victim here, he's called everyone who is white and not trans a racist and a transphobe. How do you think people are going to respond?
hahaha all these comments and down votes. this dude had no clue the size of the hornets nest he threw a rock at.
Isn't Milo Stewart just parodying the whole SJW stereotype?  I'm pretty sure she's not actually serious.   Nobody talks like that or seriously holds those beliefs.
hellloooo Mr. White Knight.
I think you and Milo drink the same Kool Aid.
If someone comes on and talks shit they get feedback. Like you, you just wasted bandwidth of post your own load of crap.  p.s. milo is a she. she's got XX chromosomes. She's a man in the same sense I'm a giraffe.
Milo was gleefully trolling "cis" folks... and got trolled. /shrug
Jesus Christ, when someone is racist and people call out their bullshit, It shouldn't be seen as negative, but as PEOPLE DEFENDING BASIC HUMAN RIGHTS.
Play stupid games. Win Stupid Prizes.  Milo is the architect of her/his/IDGAF own destruction. Going to a public forum spewing mean, hateful and downright stupid shit. Yeah people are going to be calling you out on it. And they are not gonna be nice about it.  For a graphical illustration  http://i0.kym-cdn.com/photos/images/newsfeed/000/960/143/d7a.jpg
Are you fucking kidding me? You do realize that, now at least, the most upvoted comments on this video are actual constructive criticism of her bigoted and frankly stupid points of view.
Stop talking like a cartoon character, it makes you sound cringey and annoying.
you claim that the anti-sjw's have safe spaces???? if the internet is not a safe space for milo, then it is not a safe space for the anti-sjw's, it is simply that there are more commentors who AGREE WITH anti-sjw's, then commentors who agree with people like milo  if milo needs a safe space, tell her to get off the internet.  youtube is a PUBLIC FORUM safe space is a private place  you are an idiot
TL;DR didn't even make a milo response, soo...?
This is one of the most intelligently written moronic video's I have witnessed on youtube.  halfbaked assertions and the always popular listen and believe sjw mentality.  The fact it is doesn't matter how old someone is stupid and harmful ideas should be squashed. This oppression point system social justice warriors love to tote is a divisive ideology. One that is itself inherently racist and sexist. It assumes people are not equal putting them in to oppressed classes and removing autonomy from individuals.   There is all this talk of how trans people are oppressed, which is conplete bullshit. The majority of them are attention seeking narcissist who do it for attention and when they don't get the attention and validation they want.... They make videos on the internet calling people transphobes and racists.. Milo being my case and point, dont you for a second think that this short haired glass wearing shitbag isn't making videos like this for anything other than attention.  You know what this does? This forces people who don't give a shit about what trans do which believe me is the majority of people, to have this bullshit shoved in their face and be told they are a racist, transphone, misoginst or whatever ist is popular at the time. This in turn put people off as they are not and to be told by some 17 year old they are. What the fuck does a 17 year old know about the world? People are sick and tired of people playing the victim and then having jerkoffs like you white knight the issue. So they push back and what does that do? It sets the victim cycle rolling again. SJWs are pushing a cancerous socialist agenda all the while shitting on egalitarianism making it obvious what is going on and they are unapologetic about it.  In closing this is the internet... Regardless of age if you're unprepared for the shit that comes from putting you voice out there... Fuck off.. The world isn't a safe space, you're not special, your opinions don't matter to strangers.. Grow the fuck up this is the real world not an illusion.  Milo's stupid ideas does and will do more harm than good for the legitimate trans community and THAT is what pisses most people off. Even when they are unwilling to admit it.
How brain damaged do you need to be to defend that dudes bullshit? I'm Non-binary Transhelicopter and am offended by this.
I can agree that some of the comments are the worst of pointless internet hate. But I don't really see the response videos as objectionable. Provocative yes, but definitely making rational criticisms. TJ, for example, is openly pro-trans, but doesn't let that stop him from pointing out bs when a trans person says it.  On one particular point of contention, while Milo may not have been as hostile as he came across, I don't think his errors were solely or primarily a matter of articulation. "Everyone is racist" may not have been intended to mean "everyone is Rush Limbaugh", but I also think it was a far cry from the "everyone's a little bit racist" position you make it out to be.
Sir you sound like a intelligent  and serious person. I just don,t see how you can defend any of Milo's positions. lets start with the big one in my opinion ALL WHITE PEOPLE ARE RACIST.Think about it. How racist is that comment to broadly paint all white people (including himself) as racist. I guess what he is saying is HE IS RACIST AND THINKS ALL OTHER WHITES SHOULD BE ALSO. It is a logical conclusion to that train of thought.  my next bone of contention is the claim that all CIS people are TRANPHOBIC. WHAT? If you mean that because I really don't give a rats ass about who you identify as what you identify as what your genitals are or are not what you do with said genitals or in public, who you do or what gender said person's gender is or that until you opened up this can of worms i was happy to live and let live. I'm TRANSPHOBIC then you have just shown me how CISPHOBIC you really are.   Now sir you are an intelligent person( I am assuming) yet you try to blame the lash back to Milo's RACIST and CISPHOBIC comments on the anti SJW commentators of youtube and trolls in general but fail to realize that  these reactions (look it up means caused by the action of something else) come from people who are just plain SICK AND TIRED OF BEING BLAMED FOR EVERY PENNY ANTY GRIPE THAT ANYONE OF AN ALTERNATIVE LIFESTYLE HAS. When if fact they really don't give a dam what you do your free to do it.
But when transgender people do it, its not bullying.
FFS This young woman is just a child. She needs to live a bit to really understand human nature. Some fun little game a white priviledged little girl is playing to grab attention. she does in fact talk the biggest load of crap. And she is very insulting. See how long she would last in a pub full of real men. she'd run out screaming after 5 minutes.
I mean, I know everyone hates this video, but I think that it provides a funny, non-cringey, self-aware and nonpartisan counterpoint to both SJW insanity and anti-SJW bullying. Solid 8/10 even though I disagree with some of your points and am very confused about your gender. Subscribed and liked.
So, Milo made a video in which he unfifferentiatedly paints entire groups of people as racist, sexist, transphobic etc. but it's the people who criticize him for that who are mean-spirited?
Straw man .... The Video  Oh and "Milo" is not a guy nor will she ever be
I love how, like all good SJWs, you never answer any of your criticisms in the comment section (which, judging from the like/dislike ratio, is kinda skewed) and only reply to people who like your stuff.  Keep those blinders on!
"ARE YOU SERIOUS, YOU'RE FUCKING A WHITE MALE"?
im not really sure what your point is
Critisism. I don't think you understand what bullying actually is. This is just apologising for a openly bigoted, racist, sexist little snowflake.
so Milo Stewart is a misogynist? Good to know, after all as identifying as male means that he is misogynistic by default. Welcome to the club even if you don't want to join you going to be part of it anyway just because you identify as male
Subbed. Anyway, @ 2:56 you've essentially got the products of a highly sophisticated, 24/hour inculcation apparatus in the US (which includes the largely submissive intellectual class). Professor Noam Chomsky explains what the primary function of this class has always been: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=huMUGm5z6RE https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZZ0jIYPfA-s https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hgzG8QiaFp4
i remember my rabid-anti sjw phase lmao and my ""sjw"" phase. now i don't really care about either even if i fit tumblrs definition of "oppressed" (not white, straight, or male). both sides are flawed and you made some good points. the hypocrisy of anti sjws getting offended and bitching over jokes about white people and men drove me out of the movement the way ""sjws"" hammering in my brain about how EVERYTHING SHOULD OFFEND ME BECAUSE I'M NOT A STRAIGHT WHITE MAN SHHH LET ME SPEAK FOR YOU THAT'S NOT RACIST OR SEXIST AT ALL drove me out of that movement. tl;dr keep up the good work
Personally I can see why some trans people just view Milo as attention seeking transtrender. Hell, might be true, not sure I get the whole I'm neither gender stance. As for his/her age. Who gives a fuck. Put yourself in public eye with controversial topics you best have a hard skin.
I wish I'd known when I was seventeen that it's a licence to slander entire demographics whilst expecting no push back. I'd have had a field day. While it's true that many of the comments he got were unnecessarily unpleasant, he said some pretty unpleasant things himself. Anyway, he makes it quite clear in his video that he doesn't care about cis people's feelings so he was presumably unmoved by all those comments. Not that they were necessarily all from cis people. I wouldn't be surprised if some trans people had a few choice words for him.
Racism, sexism, LGBT equality in the West are insignificant meaningless unquantifiable concepts, trivial compared to the real PHYSICAL PRACTICAL issue of antinatalist animal rights. Until laws are made BANNING THE BREEDING OF NONHUMAN ANIMALS FOR MEAT, to satisfy SELFISH meat-eaters, NOBODY has ANY right to ban hate speech. People should be free to express hatred of whomever they want.  Including hating animals.   Nonhuman animals don't give a crap if somebody somewhere else made negative sexual comments and jokes about them, or if somebody explicitly says they hate animals.  What physically provably matters to the animals is that they NOT be FORCED into factory farms by the BILLIONS. People SHOULD be forced by law to go vegan.  Boohoo. What a trivial insignificant hardship for them. There are MILLIONS of ads where people think it is ok to eat meat.  Throughout the world.  But, we do not have laws CURRENTLY in the west specifically outlawing blacks or gays or women from jobs. The vast majority of liberals are not specifically outlawing blacks or women or gays. Human social activists are NOW THE CONSERVATIVE, BECAUSE THEY ARE FIGHTING WARS/BATTLES ALREADY WON! People fighting for black, women, gay rights SHOULD have used VIOLENT FORCE YEARS AGO! That is when it was justified. And they SHOULD use it in muslim-controlled theocracies. Social justice warriors fight EASY battles, the ones already won, like ALL extreme rightwingers do.  But, we DO NOT currently have laws BANNING Wall Street, BANNING massive wealth inequality with extreme wealth going towards those who do the LEAST valuable LEAST necessary work. But we SHOULD. We DO NOT currently have laws BANNING people from eating meat and from reproducing and overpopulating. But we SHOULD. We DO NOT currently have laws in favor of CIVILIANS fighting for their freedom from arbitrary arrest BY POLICE. Yet, WE SHOULD.   True liberals would be for maximizing the FAIRNESS of all freedoms, including prisoners'.
Math is God. I am an atheist, and I say Math is God. Concepts like "equality" and "extremism" are mathematical concepts. Therefore, unless you mathematical modeling cause and effect, who physically causes what to whom and how much, it is meaningless garbage to use those terms.
The problem is that Milo has another definition of racism than us. When he/she (I don't even know what gender) generalizes everyone as racist it's normal for him/her, but for us it's an insult. She/he tries to push her self issues ("I was transphobic and am a trans so that means everyone is transphobic") on the whole world and judged other people without knowing them or doing her/his research.  The other problem is that she/he is one-sided:  White people are racist - why not black people? Men are misogynistic - that should mean that woman are misandrist cis people are transphobic - Trans are heterophobic  See what I mean? When you generalize the world then generalize the whole world not just the things that fit in your argument. Also I want to quote someone down there in the comment section: "You're siding with someone who made some extreme claims - because you feel they were 'bullied'. Not because you agree with them, but because they have negative comments. That's pitying them, which is degrading as fuck."
"Last week a mentally ill teenager named milo stewart uploaded a video"    How about we dispense with the PC speak, it has no validity in HONEST conversation!!  This sad individual  has a tenuous grasp on reality and you jumping to HER!!! defense just enables her by not encouraging her to seek therapy for her delusion. If you truly care about these people don't coddle them.  Honest analysis is the best course.
Why is mental retardation so closely intertwined with feminism?
Thanks for making this video...what a strange time we live in.
(slow clap) good job Mr. Brainwashed feminist cucklord. Go ahead and a use my comment in a short clip with a record scratch as some sort of fallacious proof of anything. Don't look at stats and facts Mr. Intellectual, just go all on FEELZ, Kant would be proud. We all know you want to fuck that Milo Stewart thing...
An idiot defending an idiot.
This is a great video - really well put across, a refreshingly sane take on this as to how sending death threats to a 17 year old is invariably fucked up. I read on your twitter you wanted to make more videos so I hope the less than overwhelmingly positive response doesn't put you off. You did good here, and I'd be interested in seeing more of you should you upload in the future. All the best!
You do raise some interesting points, but you don't offer much in the way of a solution except for 'be more compassionate' and the one part where you suggested that milo's opinion might be a little extreme. In your opinion, how do engage the actual problematic content of Milos' which claim that everyone is a bigot?
Are you saying that Milo can't handle the internet because it's only 17? You ageist scum.
Oh come on! Do you honestly think someone's going to leave a polite comment when someone just told them they're a *insert shitty word here?* No, we're not going to give them a fucking break. I'm not going to let toxic ideas slide, it's seems they're *adoring* this attention, and will keep holding onto these toxic ideas. It's sickening.   Yes, some people do leave rude comments, but honestly, what more must someone say when another person's argument is simply, "This group of people, hates all these people, because they just do, now fuck you." Despite this, people *still* leave discussion- that is ignored and buried inside her ego.   Hell, I'd love to engage in a discussion, and be polite 'n' shit, but there will be no discussion, this is just someone spewing their shit and getting a rise out of people. No though, how fucking dare we, not engage in intelligent discussion when the guideline of the discussion is "Fuck you all."  *Fuck that,* labeling an entire group of people, with something seen as negative to, *most people,* is dehumanizing, and it's wrong. No we're not dehumanizing them, but *to hell* with their toxic ideas.
I wonder if I did a video response (since I've never made a video) would it be even regarded.  I keep getting this video on my feed and I don't know why.  But honestly, you complain about the 'nerd' vitriol, yet you ignore the hateful disdain and arrogance she exudes. (Call me insensitive, but I do not believe Milo is trans. I know trans people and she just looks more like an attention seeker) That arrogance she has is the part most people HATE. She's telling US what words mean, what we are, and what she is. yet we can't say what we are or what she is because that's wrong. That power is HERS ALONE.  Also, she doesn't study etymology like I have, and her telling us what words mean instead of starting it with "We now use these words to mean because there has been no prior word made up to represent this" No, she acts like these are what the words means and we're stupid for not knowing them, when in fact it seems she doesn't know what the words mean.  Cis is also not a biology pronoun, Cis-gendered is just a term they made to try throwing salt at the 99% who aren't trans or what special snowflake gender one creates so they can feel like they have the right to tell everyone else to check their privileges, all the while showing that they are more oppressive than the oppression they claim to have endured.  Racism is not 'white people believe this about black people'. It is a base word and a suffix. Race in old english being 'people of common decent'. So even the argument there is 'no race' is not true, because some people have obviously less in common from recent ancestors, so they are not of 'common decent'. ism is a suffix meaning "The practice of based on the base word" So, "Practice based on Race" or "a practice based on people of common decent"   But note another nuance to that we've seen more recently. It's BAD to be racist. Here is another thing that it's important to discern etymology or what these SJW sociologists want words to mean; difference between discrimination and prejudice. Discrimination is neither a good or bad thing, it depends on what you're discriminating against. Me choosing not to eat spaghetti one night is discriminating against spaghetti, it has no negative context here. If I chose to not go down a dark ally for fear of getting raped, it has the context that it shouldn't be negative because I'm doing what's best for me, but it also comes with the mind games these assholes want to play that "Oh so you assume a person of SOME background would be there to rape you!" which would be the negative. Prejudice, however, is always negative. Prejudice is not part of the definition for Racism, but because you DO something based on race (whether you like to date outside of your race like if you're white and only date blacks, technically that's racism. If you congratulate someone for their efforts and say "It's amazing a BLACK person did this" even if you didn't mean it to be negative, it's racist. Likewise, these can be done in reverse, meaning everyone is racist. It can even go so far as to say if a black person says "That white guy over there" even if there's no disdain or hate, the notion that you described based on RACE makes the act based on race. So yes.  And Milo would have us assume that racism is based on that we grew up being taught to hate 'minorities'. Learn your words. It's racial prejudice. And even then EVERYONE can be guilty of it, yet she makes it sound as only what she perceives as the majority can possibly be.   So stop painting her as a victim when she should be painted as a narcissistic dumbass.
Those are insults though.
"COME TO ME MY TRANSGENDER CHILDREN, I SHALL PROTECT YOU FROM THE MEAN CRITICS. *record scratch* THOSE ANTI SJWS ARE JUST MEANIE BO BEANIES"
Milo is is an ill informed bigot and moron...  I think you are too...
The weirdest thing about this is the whole "she's only 17!". Come on, 17 is mature enough to be able to handle well deserved criticism. You're obviously just as brain dead as the"kid" you're defending.
Wow, the irony here is that both you and Milo are probably pretty happy with the amount of attention you have gotten for yourselves (and especially Milo) because of the inevitable backlash and responses to his outrageous verbal assault on anyone who happens to be white, male, cis, hetero, or any combination thereof..(you know, basically 90% of the population), and by someone representing less than 1%. But, Milo being trans wasn't the issue and you know it, as there are many transgender people with channels on YT that get a ton of support in both their comments and growing number of subscribers. It was simply the low hanging fruit, like when  white male says something a feminist disagrees with, her go-to response is definitely going to incorporate the fact he's a white male and has no say. So, whether Milo was 7,17 or 70, any reasonably intelligent person knows damn good and well, when your opening statement, and less than a minute into your video is this:   "All white people are racists, all men are misogynistic, all cis-gender people are transphobic, all member of the majority are biased against the members of the minority or oppressed group. In fact, most people are racists, misogynistic, transphobic, ablists, etc."    And with this, he had essentially thrown down the gauntlet and dared people to take the bait and come back at him to dismantle such sweeping, demonizing allegations, one at a time or collectively, but either way, it was way too easy to resist picking apart his lack of any real support for such antagonistic remarks, but at the same time, getting him a lot of attention. Then as part of a one-two punch, you jump into the fray, and to Milo's defense, and accuse people like Armored Skeptic and ShoeOnHead, as being part of the anti-SJW posse, there to string up poor Milo, but who hadn't even acknowledged his video at that point.....Nice...
Milo made a very foolish video, one might say. It was filled with hollow generalizations, vast assertions, and it all began with him stating that none of the expressed views were even ideas that he conceived of to begin with--which is obvious when nothing was provided to add validity to what was being said. Worst still, he attributed the points to two other YouTubers, calling them both "lovely," yet one is considered to be one of the more vile and racist individuals from the his particular social movement.   Calling someone out on the flaws that you perceive to exist in their content is not, automatically, bullying. If one of the cited videos happened to be nothing more than personal attacks and such, ignoring the video entirely, then there may be an argument that it was bully. None of the cited YouTubers did this. There were insults mixed in with valid, well-reasoned points against Milo.
Has the thought that the reason why these people have so little likes is that they are wrong ever ran through your head?
another wanker afraid of comment section... i see bull shit i tell its bullshit. I don't have to be polite to somebody who is retarded by choice and have not a single thought of their own
Milo doesn't deserve the hate. I don't agree with everything he says but he really knows a lot about gender and says lots of smart things most people just don't get the things he's talking about i'm glad you're not against him
Please refrain from making more content. The points in these videos are so fucking stupid that I can't even begin to type a rebuttal so I'll leave it at this insult:  Remove yourself from the internet, idiot.
Theres no such things as transgenders only crossdressers
I disagree with this video. I disagree because: 1.) Not everyone included in the 'anti-sjw' (wtf is that?) group has made a response to Milo.  2.) Anti-SJW isn't a thing. There are people who disagree with SJW politics, but that doesn't mean they're 'anti-SJW'. I think most of the people you cited (keyword, most) are fine with there being an opposition because they welcome the challenge. 3.) You're siding with someone who made some extreme claims - because you feel they were 'bullied'. Not because you agree with them, but because they have negative comments. That's pitying them, which is degrading as fuck. 4.) Not everyone who disagrees with the politics of the SJW movement is not a hateful asshole. Some of us just don't agree and don't resort to name calling as a defense. MIND BLOWN. 5.) If you don't want your views challenged, don't put them up onto social media where opposition can oppose your ideas. You don't get to post a video and get nothing but agreeing comments, that's not how opinions work. That's not how *people* work.  And I don't like what Milo contributes to the world, not how they use their negative comments to garner sympathy. They are taking advantage of innocent people - and are the candy coated version of Black Lipstick Buxom Boy. Most of us know how that channel ended.
please, I'm 14 years old and I could take that criticism without needing a safe space
>And I thought nerds were bullied and abused by jocks in high school.  What a great way to show off how much of a progressive thinking person you are by openly admitting that you believe in television tropes. Classic SJW: preach tolerance and then demonstate how much of a prejudiced idiot you are yourself.
You are a fucking idiot. Fuck you for putting words in my mouth. Milo is just an idiot, but you are en even bigger idiot.
You think this is a reason analysis of, umm, let's call it 'Milo-gate'.  It's not. It's pissy, biased and annoyingly passive-aggressive.
Her video was inflammatory.  If you call billions of people bigots your going to get a backlash.   I don't agree with name calling but if it's just one comment that's not bullying.  One comment making fun of Milo is a joke,  people scrolling through the comments will laugh thumbs up and move on.   Real humans make jokes at the expense of others.   it's the way comedy works.   Sjws, the perpetually offended, only want jokes that target white cis gendered  men. Men can take these jokes.   It's like making fun of yourself, everyone should do it.   Sjws as soon as someone says a joke or makes a generalization about anyone who isn't a straight white man, then it's grab your pitch forks it's time to publicly crucify someone.
Woo hoo! My comment was highlighted in a video. In all seriousness, though, Milo was deleting the hell out of comments she didn't like, no matter how rational or reasonable those comments were. So, yeah, she's a spoiled, little, millennial, crybaby brat who's afraid to have her ideas challenged. NEWSFLASH: *having your ideas challenged is NOT persecution.*
The response to Milo and most SJW warrior's videos (including yours) is what libertarians mean when they say "The remedy to hate speech is more free speech" ...  The social justice movement is incredibly bigoted and they demonstrate this through open hostility towards white heterosexual males, and though their patronizing attitudes towards every other demographic group. When people watch these bigots videos they typically down vote the video, and often leave a comment in the comment section. In many cases these comments are less than polite, many may be "ironic", and may be written specifically using something the know will offend the video creator.
That's rich, since you and Milo, coming from an industry of provocateurs like every other SJW, obviously know better than normal people that throwing insults around is not a big deal.  I love how you try to whitewash obviously-inflammatory insults with "I don't know what that means" and "he is not communicating his ideas well" in a desperate attempt to paint your collective as being "bullied".  That is, in addition to the usual "if you disagree with a transgender person, you are a transphobe" typical SJW argument.  If you insult people in public, you should expect to be insulted back, albeit through no social or political intervention of any kind (which this Milo fellow is never subjected to).  That's not being bullied- that's called consequence of your actions.  And if you go about insulting millions of people, there are bound to be at least thousands amongst your targets who would simply skip the formality and get to the points in the most straightforward and often the least sophisticated way they'd bother thinking of.  Let's get it straight- safe space operates on ostracization; the worst people who are against SJWs can be accused of is voluntarily associating with one another.  Finally, I think you need to stop operating as if people can't tell SJWs from everyday Leftists.  Even the Leftists are turning on you SJWs now, let alone giving you sympathies.
don't be mean to this guy he has feelings
Is it possible to be any more incorrect?  Since I think your entire video is a shameless white knighting of an transgendered adolescent that feels the need to attack all "cis" people, I will only comment on where we agree: there are tons upon tons of shitlords on youtube. But, blaming content creators for the activities of the shitlords is a failure of basic logic.   I do not like this video. So, I can not validate your self worth. No subscription, down vote
There is no way out......they are coming.
Did this video even have views before people started responding to it? It's at 11K now, and this is the guy's second video.
As much as I agree with the point that he is young and naive, when he puts out statements that are incredibly bigoted of course there would be a black lash from rational people. Among the people who backlash there will be morons, you can't avoid that. Then why inflame them in the first place? You seem pretty ignorant on the topic
Are you Nykytyne2 (forgot how to spell it)
Just stop while your behind mate, you tried, you failed, its ok though, just move on.
How come Blarie white's video not on your list  is it cuz she's trans?    Wait to erase trans voices bigot
Hey where is your video defending Evalion or do you only defend those you agree with? The same shit happened to her and even worse. Let me know when you post it.
Armored Skeptic and ShoeonHead were not invovled. Are you too afraid to talk against trans people who are against Milo, Blaire White being one of many examples? https://youtu.be/5q4kwxwf0wU Don't sit there and act like they are getting this abuse because they are trans.  Armored Skeptic's response to you https://youtu.be/WubLGbQAeMg
Armored skeptic just ripped your asanine video a new one, you might want to put some ice on your burn lol.
I am curious. Are you a misogynist? Then why did you say something mean about Shoe0nHead? Do you promote fat shaming? Then why did you mock TJ? Are you an anti-semite? Then why go after the Armoured Skeptic? Are you a xenophobe who hates foreigners? You must be to say something crude about Sargon of Akkad, TL;DR, or Bearing.   Are you going to criticize me for saying that? That might make you a homophobic misogynist racist, as I am an Irish/Cherokee lesbian.   Does that seem like nonsense to you? Good. Because it is. So is calling people transphobic for criticizing Milo Stewart. Milo is being attacked for what they said more so than being trans. People don't come out against transgendered people like this elsewhere, sure, you will have hecklers show up. But it is the statement that is eliciting the massive blow back. If a transgendered person is kind to me, I will be kind to them. If they are rude or cruel to me, I will be rude or cruel back. If it is on the grounds of being CIS I will smack them right in the gender identity.   I get that Milo is young, but the idea that that should somehow make them immune to anyone pointing out how terrible what they are saying is is ludicrous. When I was a teen on the internet way back in the late 90s and early 00s I said stupid shit too, and I got dog piled for it. Not to the same magnitude, because social media as we know it now did not exist. So instead of millions it was a couple dozen. Also, the stupid shit I said was seldom anywhere near as inflammatory as what Milo said.   And you know what? I learned from it. Instead of getting all emo about it, I learned what I said wrong. I grew as a person. I didn't need someone to come coddle me and protect me from my detractors.   I even had one man try to get me to kill myself, and I still learned from the experience. He wasn't just some stranger on youtube I'd never spoken to before either. He was kind of a friend before we had a major falling out. I went into a manic and depressive fit, came out and tried to make amends. Knowing I was suicidal, he found fault in my apology and demanded I make it public. When I refused he told me "maybe you'd be better off dead".  What did I learn from that? I learned to ignore assholes on the internet and take things with a grain of salt. I also learned what kind of person I really was. An administrator on our message board found out this had happened and wanted to ban him. I was approached by the staff and asked what happened. I told them it didn't matter, it was between the two of us (and a few other parties privy to the conversation), and that he shouldn't be banned for something he said outside the forum. I protected his free speech despite how vile I thought he was.   Fifteen years later I still hate his guts. But there is no question in my mind, I did the right thing. Today he would have been called a homophobic misogynist racist for saying what he said to me. Even though he said what he said because he thought I was obnoxious, and I very much doubt it had anything to do with who and what I am.   If Milo can get online and make an ass of themselves, people can point out that they are in fact an ass and should be able to do so without having to worry about being charged with the horrific crime of being politically incorrect.  Have I played nice enough? Or are you going to join that fuckwit from fifteen years ago and tell me to "kill myself in a fire". At least he was more eloquent.
What the flying fuck is wrong with you?
Bullshit. At 17, you know that making sweeping stereotyping statements gets harsh responses. I have no sympathy for somebody when they receive threats and hate speech when *they use hate speech themselves*. Youth isn't a stop gap from criticism. The entire premise of this video is garbage.
2:55 Circlejerk? Naw, if you make a bad video with incorrect ideas that insults your audience, you're gonna get down voted... Take this video for example :)
I'm sorry. I'm so sorry you spent so much time making this video only to be thoroughly destroyed by Armoured Skeptic. Way to invite the wrath of someone who had nothing to do with Milo in the first place.   Nice dislikes btw. Go easy on the sound effects and bullshit next time. :)
Oh, so since she's young and inexperienced we should support her flawed worldview and agree with everything she says. How dare someone criticize another person for declaring an entire group of people bigoted towards some other group solely by what race they are, what sex they are, what sex they identify as, whether or not they are able-bodied, or any other labels you can come up with. Grow some thick skin or get off the interwebs!
Will Milo sign up for the draft when she...er...he (haha) turns 18 y/o?  Me thinks not!
Add Anti-Reason Anti-Facts to the list.
I agree with this video.
Sorry slick, advocating for free speech doesn't equate freedom from criticism, and yes criticism that may be found to be offensive by some. Too bad. Did you not stop to think there is a reason there is a discrepancy between likes and dislikes between SJW videos and what you call antiSJW videos? Probably because most people disagree with SJW positions. Eh, you don't care. You wanna stick up for the people you see as vulnerable instead of expecting them to have their own backbone which I think this dude actually has. The dude being Milo.
Are you going to apologize to Armoured Skeptic ? he never made a video about this until today. Also Shoe never made one.
TL:DW S...som...some guyz was mean to Milo, tha...that means he's imprevious to criticism. And...and...eh...all peoples who ever criticize SJW are bad!!! Believe me guyz! They're bad! Don't ask em to provide evidence, just #listenandbelieve!
Look, I find Milo attractive too. The difference between us is that I don't feel the need to endorse her attention- seeking behaviours to bolster my fragile self image. I don't mean to sound patronising but the odds are good you will grow out of this once you start associating with real people regularly. Good luck.
This video is white knighting in a nutshell
Milo was wrong - badly wrong. Milo was stereotyping. He/she was insulting pretty much everyone on the planet. He/she has no idea what the world is like and is in no position to judge people. And so much arrogant condescension and bigotry from someone so young!  Yet I wouldn't call him/her stupid like ContraPoint does by suggesting that Milo didn't know exactly what response her video would have. In a very real sense Milo asked for that response. (one of the best was from Blaire White)
Nice try, faggot. Stupid and extreme claims like Milo's were always going to come under fire from anyone with a logical brain. It's just unfortunate that you couldn't take a literal second to realize the difference and instead virtue signal your ass off while taking cheap shots at these content creators in the process. Just remember who's ideas you're defending here. Pathetic.
Wouldn't making false claims that you were transphobic even when you're trying no to be be bullying too?
You're seeing the inevitable push back from the irrational and divisive marxism that is the socialist just-us warmongers. The only compassion a person who states all people of a certain race are racist deserves is a hand up off the floor once they've been thoroughly beaten down. Welcome to YouTube where the golden rule is: if you don't want to be dicked with, then don't be a dick.
Where is this so called anti-SJW community?? I would like to attend their next meeting, I heard that they are secretly planning their next attacks there and who to bully next ...
According to his logic I can say whatever I want on the internet since I'm 17 and don't understand the real world and I need to be sheltered by people. Give me a fucking break not only is this ridiculously condescending but just flat out stupid. Actually go fuck yourself to death with cancer laced spearheaded dildo. You inbred retarded worthless piece of maggot shit-scum. But oh wait as a 17 year old the Internet I can't receive criticism.
Don't make demands from someone for damages by a third party.  Don't cry when the people you hit first swing back.  Don't project your own bigotry on others.  Don't white knight.  Basic rules to live by.
Your video implies milo is playing defense while everyone is attacking her despite she put a video saying all white people are racist all cis people are transphobic what the hell is your logic? And using your logic if you say any criticism to me that would be bullying too since I'm 17 and immune to criticism.
Are you white? That's racist.
So ... you're not allowed call out racists/bigots because .... racism and bigotry in general is ... good?
1st point, you lumped Armoured Septic and ShoeOnHead into that accusation without them having commented upon the Milo Stewart video, that might be ignorance on your behalf and you may not have intended to do so, but you don't sound like a complete moron so I will have to go with, the more likely assumption, that you have made a broad generalisation willingly.  2nd point, the ratings on YouTube videos help content creators and audience alike see what the overall reception of the content is. If you go around and say "all cis people are racist/transphobic" don't be surprised if they call you a cunt and down vote your video into oblivion.  3rd point, this is YouTube, this is the internet, this is public and this is real life. You're welcome to say dumb shit, what ever dumb shit you want to but you better be prepared to stand by that dumb shit and take criticism for the views you may hold and express, no one and I mean no one is exempt. Milo does not gain a pass because of their circumstances, they are subject to the same public criticism as the rest of us, the sooner the left acknowledges this fact the sooner we can all get along in life.
This is so stupid.  For a start, you try to insult your audience, "How many of you anonymous cowards"...really? Face to face you wouldn't have the balls to call anybody a coward...you coward!  To answer your question, I don't have such bigoted and racist views, so whether I was 17 or not, I wouldn't be that fucking stupid and sure as hell wouldn't put it on fucking You Tube!   "You predict that Milo will shut down his comments section" and yet you show nobody predicting this...seriously? Do you think people can't read???  Now there is nothing wrong with trying to defend somebody...BUT...make sure you have your facts correct and that your arguments are actually legitimate arguments, being 17 years old is irrelevant! Clearly nerds are more intelligent than you!
Random person asserts hundreds of millions of people are bad because of their skin colour, sexual identity or orientation, and people critisizing that retarded statement are wrong because some comments are even lower and the person is young.  Well, you don't sound young, and noone seems to be interested in your arse, so i'll be frank: I respectfully disagree with those retarded points of view, yours and hers, not to mention the few lies here and there. To conclude: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dPGU-zLPaHo
When I was 18 I enlisted in the military, and while still a "teenager" I got deployed to Afghanistan, so stop using Milo's age as an excuse. Yes, teenagers aren't the most intelligent, or even that experienced, but they know DAMN WELL what they're doing, and have to face the consequences of their actions. He has posted videos spreading racist, sexist and bigoted speech, of course he's facing backlash!
Sorry but I have to disagree with you. If a person (It does not matter the age, sex, race, religion, or anything else) basically calls every white male a racist, a homophobe, and a transphobe with no evidence then that person deserves whatever response they get. You cannot call people these sorts of things without evidence. To blanket it to every person of a sex or race is in itself sexist and bigoted.
If the androgynous little amoeba wants to make videos on the internet, Then prepare for an onslaught of shit posting and criticism. If you put your ideas out in the open for people to consider and they will consider it and respond. That's how the internet works. If your ideas are shit then people are going to tell you and probably make accusations about your physical looks and sexuality while they are at it. If you can't take it then get off the internet until you can.
You mad bro? I rather listen to milo yiannopoulos than Milo the craze cis gender sissy. And dont claim age, that thing is a big enough boy to have its views challenged.
Fuck you dude like seriously fuck you if Milo didn't want the backlash he shouldn't have posted that ridiculous video. My twin is a trans man and also my best friend I showed them the video even they agreed Milo is a white privileged child talking about shit he doesn't understand yet. People like you are defending this crap it doesn't fuckin matter If he's 17 welcome to the internet god damn it this video was awful and I will be unsubscribing from this stupid channel.
dude your logic fell apart like a poorly built brick wall towards the end of the video.. just stop...
And Im not a neŕd.
Fuck you
MILO IS NOT TRANSGENDER. YOU FUCKING SUCK FOR DEFENDING THIS BITCH. IVE ASKED MANY QUESTIONS WITH A COWARDLY 0 ANSWERS.
This dumb bitch is a fraud. Fuck her. Shes a liar and a racist, everything phobic, piece of trash.
Seriously... safe space? and "Who could 'withstand' this kind of onslaught?"  Here's some news for you: If you can't deal with the public - DON'T GO PUBLIC. It's as simple as that.  If I publicly announce that in my opinion ALL women are ignorant cunts who need spanking - I will be bashed for it. Yet - somehow - if this Milo kid publicly announces his bigoted crap - he'll get a free pass because he's a 17yo who doesn't 'want to indentify' as a white boy? Or girl... Or whatever his PRIMARY GENETALIA ACTUALLY MAKE *THEM/IT*?  Also - deliberately disabling the option for feedback IN A PUBLIC SPACE (as most of these hatemongers do - go figure) IS intellectually dishonest. It just is.  ...and every sane person KNOWS this. It's the same dumb crap that theists and new wave feminists pull off when someone GENUINELY INQUIRES about A SHRED of ACTUAL EVIDENCE for their claims. They CENSOR the objecting voices while hypocritically claiming liberal moral high-ground. All so they can retreat back into their lil echochamber of prejudice and victimhood to reinforcing their delusions to themselves and each other and not to address actual legitimate concerns. It's so disgustingly divisive and deceptive - it's almost immoral.
Ohay you masshistic bitch. Have some more attention.
Being a teenager does not give you a free pass to verbalise bad or incorrect ideas as if they were facts. His claims are generalised and made with no research other then his own thoughts on the subject. The matter of fact way he makes his video is insulting and he needs to learn how to discuss rahter then make clams that have no evidence to support them
This video is cancer. Yes, tell us more about how everyone is incapable of independent thought by claiming Milo had some sort of valid point about how we're all sexists or racists in some way undefined, inexplicable way.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=prdsADeJkLU #gitwrektfuckinormy #creyebaebae
The only thing SJWS do is bitch on the internet 24/7 all this while contributing NOTHING to society in the process. If you take all the SJWS in the world, and put them in their own country, they would have the combined IQ of one single  6 year old with Down Syndrome.  fucking special snowflakes
um? the anti SJW's are just as subject to have their videos downvoted as the SJWs. the fuck was that point you just tried to make?
Are you seriously comparing safes spaces between thumbs up/downs ratings on youtube and grown women or other groups asking that they create safe spaces on public property such as campus'? You cannot even compare the two.
dammmn, this was an excellent breakdown, one of those moments when i wish i could upvote more than once :)
1) You accuse some of the best YouTube public speakers of bullying. And yet the essence of Free Speech is that Milo can post whatever opinion he has, however he wants, with the caveat that anyone else can do so also. Now, if Milo posted a video about how he likes to do his hair, and those guys attacked him verbally for it, I'd still tend to agree with you. But since the original video is strongly attacking ALL normal people in the world without logical argument or evidence, it can be responded to with anger or derision or parody without that being bullying. 2) You suggest responses like "Now, Milo, those seem like extraordinary claims.." but since the original video isn't beating about the bush or pulling punches and seems in fact to be deliberately offensive, even trolling, that would be an inadequate, and overly respectful, response. He called everyone Racist and Transphobic. Being accused of Racism these days will get you fired, its almost like accusing someone of Rape. If someone showed up at your door and your neighbours door and accused you of Racism, would you be expected to retort in such a way? Of course not. 3) Milo accuses everyone of being Transphobic and Racist, but most viewers, probably 90%+, are neither. Now imagine you head out to work early in the morning, close your gate quietly, throw a dog treat to a passing dog, and give the time to a stranger on the corner who asks the time. Now imagine: your neighbour yells at you for waking him up by slamming the gate, THEN the dog bites your hand, THEN the stranger robs you when you tell him the time. After a few days of this, you'll slam the gate anyway, avoid the dog, and shun the stranger. Anyone would. Milo is actually MAKING people more transphobic than they may have been before the video. Because he's young and dumb? No, I say its because he's deliberately trolling us all.
Supporting free speech doesn't mean we applaud stupidity, it means we will use OUR free speech to criticize theirs *or* cheer it, as applicable.  But nice strawman anyway.  It's obviously your favorite fallacy and only means of debate.  I'm sure you will count this as "bullying" too.  But that's your issue, that thin skin you have.
So saying every white person is racist, every heterosexual person is transphobic is worth discussing with them.... It's not hate speech, inflamitory insults or bullying.... But the responses are? If you insult ppl , call them racist or homophobic bc they are, based only on their pigment level or sexual preference , you should expect ppl to be upset and respond harshly. It's ignorant, sexist and racist to do so and many ppl won't tolerate that regardless who says it. Sure, some comments were insulting, rude etc, but were they worse then the video they commented on? No.
Listen, ContraPoints, I totally understand that some people (e.g. you) just don't understand stuff they see or hear, that's fine. but when they publicly show their lack of understanding - that's pathetic.   The Amazing Atheist was joking about his audience ("brainless fucking insects") ,  I wasn't offended at all 'cause I'm familiar with The Atheist's humor.  I was actually laughing. It seems like you have the sense of humor of a feminist. The Atheist wasn't just "mocking" Milo, he was showing the ridiculousness of Milo's claims. For example : the claim that western society *in particular* treats transgenders badly , while in fact other ("oppressed"?) societies treat transgenders in a much worse manner.  It doesn't matter whatsoever if he's a grown man and Milo is only 17.  Do you suggest that "a grown up" should avoid responding (let's say: mocking) Milo because of the age difference? are you serious?   I totally don't accept you're "bullying" claim, mainly because Milo was the one who was bullying , by saying that "all man are misogynistic" and "all sic-genders are trans-phobic".  at least The Atheist was (let's say) bullying a person based on the person's twisted opinions, while Milo was bullying the majority of the human race based on nothing.. By the way:  I did leave Milo a decent comment , he/she hasn't responded me yet. I wonder if he/she ever will.  At around 2:43 you totally miss the point. Transgenders and feminists who promote the "safe space" idea are usually the kind of people who claim what Milo has claimed:  that I am (as a white male) a misogynistic racist asshole, and that my feelings a not to be considered in any way (i.e. "male tears", "mansplaining" etc..). THAT is bullying, and the responses they get are mainly because of that. I wonder why you ignore such obvious reality. The video ratings of SJW /anti-SJW don't mean that SJW need safe-spaces, instead, it means that those (alleged)SJW are in fact dangerous people who wish to shut the mouths of anyone who expresses different opinions, they easily tag masses of people as racists, rapists, an sometimes even "joke" about killing them.  As I see it, in this case the offender seeks a safe-space, not the victim.   I really don't get you at 3:28 (I'm not talking about the spanking part :-) , I mean, Milo openly blamed thousand (actually: billions) of people for being racists oppressive misogynistics, and you claim that SHE (sorry: HE) was "abused and insulted"?  Do you even realize the level of hypocrisy you show?
The best strategy in life I believe is to treat people the best you can the first time you meet them and then after that you treat them as they treat you.   If someone says to me that all whites are racist and oppressive, yeah, I could debate that claim. But, if someone insults me by telling me I'm selfish I see no problem in responding with like or hitting back harder.
🍆💦😩⬛◼🍆💦😩⬛◼ayyy🍆💦😩⬛◼ 🍆💦😩⬛◼lmao🍆💦😩⬛◼ 🍆💦😩⬛◼ 💦
dude you really are getting views from other peoples drama?  can't you create your own?
3:40 Most people who are 17 could take that kind of shit, it's called the internet. Tell Milo to grow a pair (Ooh! Extra insulting!) and stop being a baby.
Now, this was quite dishonest.  Mocking a racist and a bigot for being a racist and a bigot is not bullying and as these were all responses to a particular video and not made out of the blue. The reason why SJW videos get so many thumbs down is because we who don't agree with them look at their videos. As a matter of fact this is how I came to this video.  Honestly I do it to have a little laugh but if the arguments are good enough my mind would be changed... and they rarely are.
"TJ's video should be dismissed because it's mostly mockery". *mocks TJ 50 seconds into own video*. I do love a bit of irony.  What you also fail to realise is that while there are plenty of ideas floating around in cyberspace, especially here on Youtube. That doesn't mean the environment in which they are discussed is always going to be tastefully academic. These channels are for entertainment as much as they are about debating ideas. It's important not to conflate the two environments. Youtube is not Ted Talks or an Open University video conference, it is Youtube.  Also, since you mentioned it, the argument TL;DR makes is that the larger channels might be seen as losing credibility for making tasteless jokes during their vlogs now that they're reaching larger and wider audiences. Whether his [TL;DR] argument here is true or not remains to be seen as most people seem to understand the context that Youtube is not purely academic and that any statement should be taken with a huge dose of salt. They [veteran channels] seem to have so far passed the most brutal of online peer review, you show this yourself in your emphasise of the like bar; but are still often called out on any mistake by their "loyal audience" you describe as "brainless insects". Failing to give the audience any credit for these actions is either out of ignorance or disingenuous (who's bigoted?).  Quality control as well as anonymous abuse is (demonstrably) universal; that is to say it does not discriminate. Everyone is subject to it. Including the veteran channels (so your whole tirade in the middle of the video here is redundant, moot). The abuse itself is also, coming from obnoxious trolls as they are, going to be as inflammatory as possible, for affect. I don't agree that it is right, but to hold trolls literal to their remarks is to miss the point.  Of course the easiest way of dealing with genuine abuse is to simply report the offending account for what it is, an anonymous troll, like an adult; and move on with life.
Basically, it is only legal to criticize a smug, superior, self-righteous creep like Milo if you bend over backwards to be polite? Well maybe some of Milo's critics in the comment section as well as those who made video deconstructions really did go over the line, but that doesn't change shit. This person was just as rude and smug as VenomFangX (Venom was a militant YEC from the early days of youtube, and his penis was WAY smaller than Milo's!) and really deserves to be just as much of a laughing-stock as he was.  Okay would a polite, profanity-free critique from an FTM possibly make it clear why we don't like VenomFangX... I mean Milo? Jesus Fucking Christ!  https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QOxyjvOAmwM
This video is nothing but misrepresentations and fallacies. Get off of Milo's hypothetical dick. Why are you performing mental back flips to defend that ignorant kid? *You cant call someone else out on misrepresentation while you are misrepresenting others positions.* I would have to write for half an hour to actually point out all of the fundamental problems with this bilge.
Oh no, King of the Safe Space is crying about a whiny and sexist twatbasket getting mocked for shitty and sexist opinions.
Defending a racist? Well anything I say about this video is pointless, probably... But what is not its the voting/rating and numbers not only don't like but actually speak volumes about the bullshit you have spewed here.
You are a Nazi.
You're a poe, right? You must be a poe...
What a BITCH!
He entered an important conversation to claim with certainty that we're all hateful people and we need to admit it. He was treated appropriately. P.S. I don't like Milo because he's a bigoted gender ideologue spitting hate while demanding to be accepted.
This video is beyond my level of patience. The passive aggressive tone the flawed arguments; what do? I know not watch this and call this video what is it. A load of horseshit. Have a great fucking day!
SJW is canser what you are saying is dishonest and bull..... your points ar poorly made and wrong there if you think that your an SJW then plz do what is needed just remember SJW is canser and what to we do to canser?
Milo isn't a him. She's a little confused girl who need counseling.
i need an air sick bag.  as you talk i hear a bigot with a soft voice in the act of being a bully over a little bigot that talked out there ass lol.
oh no, another SJW bigot apologist. .. boohoo please do not hurt the feelings of a teenage/transgender/ feminist bigot who is only trying to voice her opinion.  moron
IF Milo had a valid point, then why is virtually every trans-person disagreeing with him?    "ALL men are sexist, ALL whites are racist and ALL cis are transphobic."    That's a lot of absolutes there.     Milo does this crap on purpose.  Milo is a gender trender, not transgender.   She does this crap for attention.  Why else would she pick 2 of the most anti white black racists on YouTube to claim to get her views from?    Milo is no different from that girl in Texas who demands to use the boys bathroom (she was given her own personal key to use either of the staff bathrooms but refused to use them), even though she only dresses as a girl, while claiming to be non gendered.  She looks like a girl by all outward appearances, but she demands that she gets to use the boys bathroom, because she's non gendered.  If she's non gendered, why can't she use the girls bathroom?   NOPE, she needs attention and wants to cause problems.
ass
UGH!!!
This is bs
So society is supposed to be kind to a person simply because of her genitalia ? Doesn't change the fact that she's still an asshole !
milo incited whatever happened to her
+ContraPoints Wait wait wait, let me get this straight: First you complain about us being bullies by using generalizations rather than engaging someone's points directly, and then you assume we are all nerds. You use generalizations to mock us for using generalizations. Hypocrite much?  And now to the meaty points of your clip.  1. The like/dislike ratio spawns directly from the audience interest of the matter at hand. Not everybody on youtube is interested in this shit. You have around 50k people who are really interested in the topic (day-one views of the channels above), and at large 300k in total who follow these discussions on a somewhat regular basis (views a week after release). From these people a large number does not leave any likes / dislikes (general truth for all of youtube's clips), and the ones who leave their opinion under a clip of this topic are usually split by a 50:1 ratio. 2% SJW's 98% free thinking people.  2. We are not legally obliged to engage any insanity in reasonable debates. Even the clip you've shown of her pointing out the inherited traits from growing up in this society are nothing short but unsound insanity. And when I go on youtube, I seek entertainment. I do not expect to change anyones opinions. And if SJW's are so eager to be my evenings entertainment program, be my guest. Watching these people is like watching "Married... with Children". Surreal comedy, where the appeal is to figure out what insane stance the opposition possibly could adopt next. And like I would laugh about Ed Bundy's corruption, I will laugh about the corruption of SJW's as well.  3. Youtube does not exist to give your narrative a platform. It exists to give me entertainment, based on the narrative you push. If you are a decent, ist-less person, I will agree and laugh to gether with you. If you subscribe to any ideology, I will sit here and laugh about you. This is how the community on youtube operates. You are here for my entertainment's purpose, and in return you receive clicks and monetization. If i want to engage someone in a reasonable debate, I will do it under reasonable rules, and definitively not in a convoluted comment section.  So yes, me writing this is another form of me enjoying your stupid clip being busted. It has been done by others, it has been done by me, and now I go for a victory-wank to fulfill the nerd-stereotype. Cya
swing and a miss. followed by more swinging at air. good job.
So would you defend any other kind of bigot like a person who says all black are criminals or someone who hate all the jews (not meme-internet-troll kind, but a real anti-semetist) when they get angy comments? Or just SJW-kind of bigot?
Wow that was some chop work you did there. You severely cut what you wanted to boast your argument. Talk about dishonesty. If you're honestly against bullying and all the other BS you try to pass yourself off as then why lie to your audience?
That's not an "It" nor a "he." Thats a Female, Her, She.
You should do more video dressed as a girl. You should also include your girlfriend and her bull.
You guys should watch the commentary from Triox on this video. Pretty fucking hilarious.
New at 10: Angry cis people scream about how being called a bigot is just as bad as actual bigotry, then proceed to deliberately misgender a transgender teenager in order to prove they are not bigots. More of this as the story develops.
So let me get this straight, Milo, an open outright bigot makes a bigoted video and gets called a bigot. Then you decide to go ahead and say that people calling her (yes her, not him, her) are bullies, bigots, etc... based on what? A few comments that are acting just like you would expect someone to react if they were addressing a member of the KKK, the like to dislike ratio of SJW's vs. those opposed to them... and that's it? Seriously? You might as well have just simply not made a video. You wasted about 8 minutes of everyone's time.
Awww lets feel sorry for the narcissistic 17 year old, because she is 17. If you bothered to research at all, you will note that she has no love for trans people, she has been vilified by the trans community, and is all about gender confusion.(i.e., look at me look at me) Oh and by the way, did actually try and ask her a question? She refuses to answer any moderate question, and claims that hating CIS is a survival mechanism, and then goes on to make more videos mocking straight people. In short she is a self important little bitch. Ken Ham was 17 once I wouldn't hold back mocking him, why should hold back mocking her. ALL her arguments were wrong. Just plain wrong.
Great Video!! Subscribed. I don't entirely agree with Milo but I do entirely agree with this video.
You're a clown bro
So, the chick is trying to copy the real Milo and fails miserably. So what? Even kids dress up as Gene Simmons and tend to fail, even when they're not girls.
Also hey, if The people receive negative attention from posting dumb shit on youtube, They need to accept the consequences of those actions. Youtube is a public space, not a safe space. If they wanted a safe space they could always just disable comments and dislikes.  But the fact that most youtubers don't means they are open to criticism.
take your own advice. You obviously dont consider what criticism is, nor do you realize that you are literallly doing the same thing that TJ and every other anti sjw channel does. Put up someone elses video, talk over it, try to debunk their argument, and throwing insults at them and their audience. so i mean...about that fire...
So when people offer up unpopular opinions in a public forum, for everyone to see, backed by contrived nonsense, calling them out is a terrible, nasty thing that no decent person should ever do. Got it.
Yeah, well the thing is the internet is pretty harsh and unforgiving.  If you decide to post a video, your age is irrelevant.  The problem is not people giving her flack in harsh manner, but the fact that new generations are not taught how to responsibly use the internet.  In my case for example I would find it self evident that if I post a video of me as a young kid making a cringey video of myself, I can end up as worldwide laughingstock that I cannot erase. Yet we still have plenty of such videos!  In the same vein if you decide to make a video to voice your opinion and said opinion is viewed by a large portion to be very naive, you will have to face the music....and it ain`t no Mozart!  Milo is getting a tough lesson in how it is to act in a adult world. Your intention seems well meant, but you delude yourself if you think that people ought to coddle someone, because they are young and naive as most young people are.  The idea of freedom of speech is a noble one, the way it plays out in reality is quite ugly at times however.
When I first saw that "everybody is racist and sexist" video by Milo, it was the first video I have ever seen of her. No joke, I thought it was all satire, a way to make fun of crazy SJWs. I still cant believe that shit is real xDD  BTW, no, you are wrong when you actually say any arguements she uses "could be correct". Just because race and gender are super-important to SJWs (and other racist and sexist people), it doesnt mean it is for literally everybody else.
wow shes a racisit little homophobe isnt she
zzzzzzzz
By the way, she is a girl, she wears make up and wears dresses.  Why are you so drawn against TJ when every point he made was correct?  You make such a serious mistake to call Milo "earnet".  Milo is a plague, and sets back trans relations a hundred years.  You are just to blame by being an Milo apologist.  Don't blame TJ for ridicule where ridicule is properly due.
TJ hit every nail on the head.  The hate and lies spewed by Milo deserve ridicule of the highest degree.  Her rhetoric is disgusting and merits destruction.  Bravo to TJ.
The cherry picking is strong with this one.
No offense but why the FUCK are you defending Milo Stewart? It's like defending Roosh V. Okay, yes, I agree that there is a huge problem with these MRA channels bullying small feminist YouTubers. But there are so many better people you could have defended to make your point. How about Maja Anushka? Or Sammie? Or lifeofaunicorn? Or marinashutup? Or Zannah (NotJustBlonde)? Or any number of good feminists that were targeted by Undoomed, Bearing, TL;DR, Warcorpse666, or any other MRA channels just for advocating equality? But even I, a feminist myself, recognize that what Milo says is harmful.  I'm sorry but you kind of defeat your own point given the person you're defending. And I feel SO BAD saying that because you had such a good message. And some of the comments are a big extreme. But he's not exactly innocent. We both know that.
Dumb shit.
Good job white knighting an idiot tranny extremist. Enjoy getting rekt.
Curiously enough, the one grouping the people you critizice is yourself. Say, have you actually listened the points MRA´s have to make? You know, those that actually group together?.  A formed Ideological Anti-Feminism in contrast with mainstream anti-feminism. In a way, "Anti feminist" is a term similar to "Atheist", a lot of different ideas about gender are going on, the comonality being only a rejection of feminist ideological aproach. It´s a bit like the contrast between discusing atheism with Dawkins and discussing it with Seth Rogan. Both are right, but one of them cares way more for the likes.   The same people you critizice here, have lashed out at MRA´s the same way they do to feminist, acusing them of being "the same but for men" without actually having to listen to their arguments. And while I agree that there is an agressive response in the comments of a lot of videos caracteristic of mob mentality, I will also point out the millions of videos with actual information about hundreds of points that constantly refute feminist ideology, Like the ones from Christina Hoff Summers, Dr. Janice Fiamengo, Karen Straughan or perhaps even the informative debates some of the people you point out have done various times. You are focusing on the demagogs when there are actual experts refuting such points in here. Curiously enough, the one you claim detect the same problem you point out, TL;DR, is the one more in contact with MRA´s.  For example, the psychologycal process feminist like Milo claim makes us all "mysoginist" is the one that allows us to diferentiate among our respective groups. When recognizing our diferences we inebitably get a complex influx of emotions which invariably will encompass all the ones you can name. People have complex feelings for each other. By the same logic, we could say that all homosexuals hate the other gender, or that trans people hate themselves. It is to blame one demografic for a flaw we all have at times and that is discrimination by at the same time denying the compensation or consesions we have made psychologically, emotional, social and politicaly. Projecting a little uh?. This has been pointed out millions of times.   What you see now is the tired cynicalism created by having to refute the arguments hundreds of times by diferent people that all share the same ideological bias. But despite the cynicals, there is still skepticism, like Dr. Randomercam points out.  Now, the confused transgerder teen gets bullied by getting mean comments on the internet while discriminating. Have you look at the real other side? Not only the Bully comments the MRA´s face, but actual fabricated acusations of violencie, pedophilia, and sexual deviancy, people like Victor Zenn, Paul Elam or the Honey Badgers have had to fight off in order to help men in their area?. Hell, Bane666 has a series of about 45 one hour videos debunking all the false acusations feminist constantly throw a MRA´s. This are people who have had their jobs, and education threatened by feminist to such extent they find the kind of bullying Milo gets funny when its the biggest problem they have to deal when it happens to them. And that is not even counting people like Gregory Elliot who actually was denied access to the internet for three years, and had to face trials for far tamer comments than what Milo has stated. Those   Even the people you critizice have had it much worse, with Thunderfoot not only getting doxxed but feminist calling to his job to tell his boss he is a Nazi and have him fired.   To put it simply the feminist side "acusing" the other of violence and hate ignores the far more violent, far more hateful responses they have made, which may not justify the agressive response, but at least explains it.   The comunity never denied it was violent, but on the contrary, has repeatdly stated that we are ALL violent, and that pointing at the comunity as specially violent is dissingeious, like you do when you compare mean internet coments with actual islamic terrorism. Such is the price of freedom of speech.
Clearly Milo is being bullied for being transgender.  It couldn't possibly be for his hateful, bigoted opinions. Pay no attention to that!
Milo and first world problems....
Why does the internet "resort" to simply mocking the cringe-inducing regressive left?  Because they're not worth arguing with--they're ridiculous.
One point you got wrong... SJWs can't demand or expect a safe space... when they walk on to the battle field...  especially when they are lobbing grenades full of hate and accusing everyone with the same brush...
Just because Milo posted a mean video and people were upset and said mean things back doesn't mean the commenters are transphobic. An SJW who is trans will use "Transphobia" as a shield against people who rightfully criticize them
I'm not quite sure you analyzed Milo's video correctly. But first I'm going to say, maybe the dislikes on your video is because nobody likes being made out to be an aggressor when infact victims- Milo isn't the victim, was he not the one being a bigot towards people not trans? After seeing your "about me" it was the least I would expect, in a summary- You told viewers that because they disagreed and released videos on that, they were somehow "mocking" (whoopdie fucking doo, I get more hate from a comment on a video) him, as an SJW would usually do, you tried to pin this on the fact that because they don't agree they're automatically transphobic. I strongly believe that Milo is much more of an attention seeker with her being trans as it seems to me she makes little effort to even look trans. Proabably special snowflake syndrome where she has to make herself as diverse as possible so all the SJW's can accept her into the "No white, heterosexual males allowed club". Also, as an SJW, I don't suppose you actually can see a safe space when you see one- A comment section where many people share the same opinion is not a "safe space".
Fact: you can't say whatever you say and not expect feedback, if what you say angers people they will react, some in very savage ways.
I don't see the point of showing the numbers of likes and dislikes that anti-SJW channels have compared to SJW channels. Surely if the anti-SJW channels have more likes, it means more people agree with them, and if the SJW channels have more dislikes, it means that people, in general, don't like others making broad statements about how they feel about other people. Of course the person who gets the most dislikes is the one who declares that EVERYONE is racist, homophobic, transphobic, ableist, sexist, etc. Milo gave no evidence whatsoever (unless you count the other videos he linked to, which, in turn, provided no substantial evidence) so why shouldn't people disagree with him in the most basic way - by disliking his video?  Also, he says that everyone is racist, although he seems to be part of the SJW crowd that would also believe that non-whites cannot be racist, at least, based on the people he linked to.
Oh please, Milo was virtually begging for these nasty comments with his more than broad generalizations and using two black supremacists nutjobs as his "inspiration". Also comments are just that, comments. Also these videos are upvoted so much becuase these people are good at showing just how stupid SJWs are. The entire movement is a still birth still twitching in it's idiocy. Furthermore using his age as an excuse for his despicable opinions is just pathetic. I know plenty of 17 year olds who are much more mature, intelligent and actually open minded. Ultimately your video reminds me of creationists trying to critizise scientists because they do not adhere to their idiotic beliefs.  And no, Milo had no actual point in his video.
The Anti SJW community is only tired of their stupidity and ignorance, so we have no other chance to get to them... you cant discuss with them or exchange arguments... You did the same, generalizations about whole populations... funny...   Nowadays everyone thinks only cause he can go online he gets to inprint his feelings and demands on us and order us what to do or insult us or our intelligence. Every Mainstream Newspaper or TV Station, bloggers, the fucking UN itself gives them a plattform for this retarded ideas that feminism and transgender pseudo ideology is... even Transgender ppl itself express their feelings towards this SJWs in a very angry way. ^^   So for the sake of argument, what do you think started the "bullies" to emerge from the dark angry side of the Internet?   Its allways easy to get behind the obvious victim, the real deal starts with analyzing the situation, proof facts and act accordingly.  And for safe spaces, lol... what will they be doing, if they hit the wall called "real life"? when will the learning begin for them, that the real world is a unfair and hard place to get by... Damn i wish that was an reality Tv show, i would look that shit everyday...
Sorry to everyone in the comments section but you're all wrong about one thing. It is a she, not a he, she doesn't have a dick or balls or testosterone. Does she have any signs besides her saying she is a boy? If not she is undoubtedly a girl. Transgender is either a mental disorder or simply just some little kids who still believe the ground is lava. There are some things you can't control and what gender you are born with is one of them. No evidence to support biological gender some transgender people say but the evidence is there. Its called a penis. No "female" has a penis. No "male" has a vagina. These are unique characteristics of each gender and you don't get to choose which you have. I didn't choose my gender, my age, my parents, my family. The rare things you can choose are religion and sexuality. If all men are misogynists then you are too because you're a man according to you. If you say because you're transgender and that means you are excluded from other cis men then you're admitting you're a girl or "once" was a girl so you still must be a girl. If anyone who reads this and finds any errors with what I have said, please comment back and inform me. Unlike sjw and feminists I can take criticism and use it. I'm not like one of these "perfect" "feminist" "social" "justice" "warriors."
The "safespace" in anti-SWJ comment sections is really clear for why it happens, anti-SJW want to engage! SJW want to hide in safe spaces...  You have some decent points here even tho I disagree with most of them, subscribing...  PS: YMS + Mr Plinkett, much?
I'm loving your work, Nyk.
Guys.... You all realize he's going to take all this negative criticism as evidence of bullying, right? He posed the question criticism or bullying? I think we all know criticism was never an option to him though.
Ive run into SJWs on those pages... you see they arent safe spaces. you have the option to release your opinion into the open market, but dont feel like they're a victim when people backlash...  Hey remember this guy? https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FrY1XltlRWg  I Guarantee that you are happy as a bee that he lost his Job for his racist remarks.  But Milo makes racist, sexist, and "cisphobic" comments and it's A-ok? Fuck off
This pooor poor 17 year old tranny kid. All she did was make inflammatory statements and now everyone is being meeean to her.   and yes, I'm calling her a she because she really can't pull of this guy thing very well and is just a trans-trender.
Defends the bully, calls the people leaving mean comments bullies, labels them "nerds" with no proof....  You're the Trans version of Steve Shives. I give your YouTube account about 3 months before it's a fucking wasteland. Thunderfoot, Amazing Atheist, and Sargon get a lot of likes because most of what they say is well thought out (I don't care for TJ's presentation, but that's personal preference)  You have no future here on YouTube unless you start thinking before posting your videos.
What kind of world do we live in when even the YouTube comments are hateful!?
"there were a lot of anti SJW video's but I'm gonna focus exclusively on the loudest, rudest, and least analytical one."
The difference is that when a SJW makes a video people object to, people mock them in the comments. When a non-SJW makes a video that a SJW objects to, the SJW calls their boss and tries to get them fired.
SJWs are very simply fair game.
I think what's wrong with a lot of people these days is that they forgot or were never taught this old gem: Sticks and stones may break my bones, but words will never hurt me. Ok, not that specific rhyme but the idea is sound. You don't have to read mean comments, you don't have be on the site. You don't have to be online even. This is all under your control. You can choose to disable comments, for example. You simply do not have to deal with any of this if you so choose to. Offense is taken, it is not given.   Get a grip on reality.
Ok , I agree with you on one point ,  people are cowards on the internet and it really sucks for an ignorant  teen like milo to get blasted by reality like that. I personally didn't encourage in any form this behavior.  But if you are going to take the top comments as a representation of the community, compare them to the thumbs down on the video. You will see that the majority of the people disagreeing with the video didn't take part of the comment section. Stop generalizing like that .
I absolutely adore how you took out all points from the clips you used and just made this as click bate (sarc). Seriously welcome to youtube where everyone is brutally honest and we wont pull punches. Milo is an idiot no matter what age "he" is. Milo is a child who has self esteem issues who is trying to push them onto everyone else but of course god forbid you actually point that out or show the ENTIRE point another youtuber is making. I wonder why you have so many dislikes hmm maybe cause people are sick of people like you.
Great video. Good analysis and point of view, and keeping level headed among the shitstorm. Don't let the comment section get ya down!
can someone please tell me the name of the youtuber with the aqua deer Icon @ 0:11? PLEASE
Welcome to You Tube where your feelings aren’t protected by safe spaces. Single out a entire group with baseless claims and watch the back lash. Was fun disliking your video.
I agree with everything you say, and I agree with almost everything Milo said.  However, if one  wants to be credible one needs  to learn how to pronounce key words in one's  argument.  Instead of saying CHROMOSOMES  ...Milo said CHROMO*ZONES*  at 1:42
People are simply exhausted and done with SJWs.  I looked at that comments section and most comments were not cruel, especially for such a condescending video.
You get a like for keeping it chill and making a good argument.  Neither side is doing much of that.
How the fuck is getting positive comments indicative of a safe space? That just means more people like them.
If you need a safe space, then go to a fucking asylum. Can't take toxic shit from the internet. Then stay off the internet. Stop being a weak pathetic worm who thinks the world needs to stop for your bull shit.
hey dipshit theres a video for  retards like you about you https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-fR6g9CDMsA lmfao the crybaby manchild cant take facts either he blocked the link XD this is too good lmfao if you are gonna spew the same bullshit kid prepare for the same videos calling out your bullshit  EDIT:nvm seems the crybaby had 2nd thoughts lol
You got Rekt.
When ANYONE  spews the idiotic, bigoted, oral diarrhea Milo Stuart spouted in that video, they deserve to be mocked and heckled roundly by anyone.You try to paint Stuart as a victim, and resort to ad hominem attacks against people who berated and downvoted him without even once acknowledging the fact that what he said was absolute shit. What does it say about you when you call people bullies when they mock and deride bigotry, but conveniently ignore and even defend the bigotry of professional victims like Stuart? Double standards much?   Look up the definition of the word hypocrisy. I think it's relevant to the drivel you've posted here.
Amazing video, I feel bad for Milo.
Someone need to put some sense into both sides, Milo's attitude isn't going to work outside her gender class just like Thunderf00t arguments dont work in a vertical working environment, your opinion and your bosses opinion are not equal, if he/she believes in rape culture, you have two choices, either quit or shut up, no matter what side you pick, you must grow up to the idea that your opinions don't matter to anybody but you...
wow you're passive-aggressive, nevermind Milo who would anyone want dialogue with you?
So the idea that all white people are racist is the thing that people are getting pissed at Milo for, dummy. All white people are not racist. That's a disgusting generalization.  If you mean that all white people are capable of seeing skin color, then say that instead.
"all commenters are nerds. All nerds are bullied." Um... So that's kinda.. horrible to say.
A mythological creature from Egypt is somehow similar to a ruler from Mesopotamia.  I'm impressed with your ability to stretch reality to service a narrative. Bra-vo...
nice way to be a hypocrite with the play nice or kill your self in fire bit . but lets be real you pretty much agree with some of the idiotic ideas put forward by the buffoon milo who at the beginning of their video gives credit for the thoughts coming out  their head to 2 other youtubers one of those being know as black hitler , which kinda makes you just as big a buffoon as well as a hypocrite
You're a hypocrite
So,  you want to fuck milo?
I'd fuck y- I mean great video
So we're against free speech because we told this arrogant little twit who thinks she (yeah she, I show respect to those who earn it, and she has not) knows everything despite being a 17 year old who knows nothing about the real world? And you're defending free speech by telling us it was wrong to voice our opinions? You SJWs, the ironing is delicious. I legitimately feel sorry for you and Milo, the real world is going to be a hard kick in the dick for both of you once you graduate.
BTW Milo doesn't really use the "he" pronoun. In your attempt to "defend" Milo you proved how truly internalized transphobic you are.  Check your privilege and your micro-aggression.
woah i cant believe how over-unliked this vid is but actually, after only  0.08 seconds into considering this it is pretty obvious why  im pretty sure, unless we are truly in the minority.. that you have an big audience that still needs to find you. I only just found you today. You're the only channel I can think of... that i can remember.... who is able to rationally mediate between the extremes... and it's what we need.  People think they want to fight.. gives them something to do, maybe actually seems a little bit meaningful or something to them, it's anyone's guess. For those of us who are awake through all of this and just want to bask in the gloriously real warmth of summer in the here and now, while everyone else seems dead set on a perpetual winter of discontented psyche ravenous for the blood of their enemies, it's a shame we aren't the ones with a more established community and presence. but oh well.
ah man... so refreshing..   and it's revenge of the nerds! that's what we have been living through for like the past 5 years  the fascist throne is open to everyone ;D  irony licks its paws  consistently the underdog never seems to realize when he has become the top cat uses underdog mentality to justify topcat actions
hope to see more video's soon! if you need any assistance at all send me a message and maybe there is something i could help. Just really appreciate your position and would like more mediators to be surfacing.
SERIOUSLY!? Calling anti-SJW videos safe spaces? That's hilarious. Did it ever occur to you, even once, that there might be a reason for the videos hosting topics ridiculing ignorant, bigoted, hateful comments about ALL cisgender (people identifying with the gender they're born with) and ALL whites as racists get higher approval? Did it even come across your mind for a single instant before saying this?  Let me make this perfectly clear; when you blanket an entire race, gender, and sexual identity as being racist, sexist, and homo/transphobic, you're going to be called out for what you are; an idiot. Especially when you claim to know the thoughts and feelings of EVERYONE. Milo is a 17 year old kid who displayed black supremacists that openly, and vehemently loathe anyone who's complexion isn't as dark as theirs, as being lovely and thought provoking people. OF COURSE Milo is going to get backlash.
I'm sorry but someone calling you racist because of your race and someone calling you transphobic because of your sexuality orientation is okay..
Let me ask you this: if a kid sticks his bare hands in a campfire, trying to grab a burning log and ends up getting severely burned, would you blame the fire that hurt the kid, or would you blame the kid for being so stupid?
Im gonna have to disagree with you You are making a victim out of a person who's implicit bias is against anyone who disagrees with them Such bigotry will cause a backlash and on the internet you will get shat on, no matter who you are
'Nerds should be more sympathetic to people who call them racists/transphobes/mysoginists and tell them to check their privilege and aknowledge that they are inherently bad people'. Okay.gif. Have you ever even fucking thought about your arguments before slinging them over youtube like your own shit?
HAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAAHAHAHAAHAHHAHAAHAHHAH!!!!!!!
People are free to change the YT channel at any time.. incl this kid when confronting criticism…   When you put your opinion out there at all in this world… and especially if it is full of obvious flaws… expect brutal satire and downright mean treatment..  thats celebrity baby.. especially internet celebrity.. YT celebrity is the worst.  If this kid cant take it… don't make videos… cause the "real world"  i.e. the post Uni world, is full of mean people trust a 45 yr old.. You SJW's are dangerously deluded, and perilously close to demanding censorship and restrictions on free speech.. and that means you are either seriously stupid or seriously misguided.. either one.. your bullshit is going to affect everyones right to express themselves… not just bullies… but will allow the Governments and Police forces to determine what is and isn't acceptable… sounds Great!!!  Lets not forget there are few places in this world where you can fully express yourself without fear of reprisals.. such reprisals as say oh I dunno being imprisoned, hung, thrown off a roof, or stoned to death… But we have one of these paradises in the West… please don't fuck it up with well intentioned, but ultimately destructive idiocy…  I can't believe all you do is "fuck Whitey" when there are shit piles of Brown and Black and Yellow people committing "real" civil rights violations.. homophobic violence and murder.. rape,.. and everything else you claim to be opposed to .. but you're too afraid to confront these issues.. because you don't want to get called racist, Islamaphobic, xenophobic and every other tag you throw at people who don't agree with you...  your self reinforcing narratives, and circular logic full of incomprehensible jargon.. are akin to producing the same self high in the body a crack cocaine or heroin user gets when they fix.. only through cognitive bias… check out NakedApes video on the subject.. Social Justice is Mental Illness  however trigger warning…  "you may not like it as it contains the dreaded "hard science…and actual concrete empirical data"
Anyone who insults almost the entire population of the planet by proclaiming that they are misogynistic, racist and/or transphobic can't really expect to not get any backlash. What goes around, comes around.
**sigh**  Believe it or not, most people who disagree with Milo (myself included) do not want him to shut down his comment section. Milo hasn't been bullied. He's been dogpiled. There's a big difference. That's a natural consequence of big youtubers zoning in on one particular Youtube video, and given how monumentally stupid that particular video was, that's why it has so many dislikes. It was the sweetest of low-hanging fruit, because there was just oh so much wrong with the ideas he presented.  None of the youtubers you mention bullied Milo. They might say some unflattering things, sure, but that's about it. I can't speak on behalf of all of their followers, but then those Youtubers aren't responsible for their followers' actions, are they? If you post content on Youtube, people have a right of reply. That's how this works.  I don't condone actual threats though, but I don't give a shit about "mean comments". Milo wants to redefine what sexism/racism/transphobia is, and his ideas are patently nonsense. They are not indicative of the majority-held view, but despite this, Milo is entitled to his opinions. I actually defend Milo's right to his views, and his ability to express them. Whole-heartedly. Ask any of the Youtubers you bring up in this video, and I'll bet money that they'd agree. You want to paint them as the villains here, but they're not. Sorry.  I do however have some sympathy for Milo, as he has gotten a lot of flak, but only because he is indicative of almost everything the skeptic community hates about social justice warriors.
Wow, you think that people thumbing videos up or down simply because we are all "followers" of some youtouber?  Has it occured to you that : 1- we follow those youtubers because we agree with their logic and the unbiased, documented facts? 2-we vote videos like this down because we find the ideas contained in it repulsive and counter to the basic tenets of modern liberal society.  you know, freedom of ideas, freedom of speech, the primacy of logic over feelings, and on and on... 3- we are appalled and incredulous when seeing grown men and women, in university, no less, acting like 12 year old children? And that these people are the result of the entire philosophy espoused by feminism?  If you cannot understand this, your though processes are warped beyond redemption.
you're biphobic and ageist.hypocrite
YouTube comments is your argument? that's stupid .youtube comments are toxic as fuck .why do i have to explain this?
The reason why milo got the overwhelming dislike to like ratio is because right out of the gate he said "All cisgendered people are transphobic, all males are misogynistic, and all white people are racists".....that's basically like saying all gay people have aids, all females are sluts, and all black people are criminals"...........DO YOU GET IT!!!!!   Also it's hilarious you point out and condemn the death threats milo received via the comment section but your subject is either be nice (agree with Milo's overt racism in the video) or go commit suicide!  In conclusion.....you're the epitome of both hypocrisy and stupidity.  Video disliked per my previous sentence.
Sorry bub, the way Milo used racism, transphobia, and sexism, is the same way "original sin" is used. Its inescapable, we must fight against it to keep it in check, and we must never forget it.
I have mixed feelings about this video. I would definitely label myself as an anti-feminist but I still agree with some the points you brought up about the anti-SJW community which do make me quite embarrassed to even take on the label. Theres tons of newish channels now like bearing which add nothing other than beating horses which all the anti-feminist YouTubers that were on the scene before them have already killed. Then there's popular SJW channels such as ThunderF00t which just relentlessly going after certain SJWs to the point they are acting like bullies and seem to have seriously unhealthy obsessions (Just look at how many videos ThunderF00t did about Anita Sarkesian). Even certain channels I did like such as Sargon of Akkhad have really just gotten to the point where they are preaching the same stuff over than over to the point that watching more than one of their videos feels like you're being brainwashed to an over the top feminist world domination conspiracy theory. Theres only a few anti-feminists I still enjoy watching, The Amazing Atheist being one of them because hes rather moderate in reality and only plays up the outrage on videos for entertainment purposes and that much is obvious. As for you're critisims of TJs response as bullying well I get where you're coming from but I simply disagree that just because the persons younger and has less viewers he shouldn't make a response and make fun of them. If you are old enough to be on the internet releasing videos accussing the vast majority of the population of transphobia, racism and sexism then you should be prepared for the responses that are inevitable.
at 2:43 Contrapoint goes on a tangent about "Safe Spaces".  Saying that the overall YouTube community mocks the SJW's on how they need them.  Contrapoint then tries and show that all the negative comments on their own YouTube Channels validates that they do need them.  This is a fallible argument.  You can't expect to go to a free speech forum and sling out controversial and arguably offensive statements and then expect no retaliation.  If an individual wants to keep from being called out, then they best keep to themselves.  As for Contrapoint's statement that the Critics of SJW's are experiencing the "Safe Spaces" because the public online community shows much more favor to them, all that exhibits is that they (the Critics) are in the majority when it comes to opinion over the subject matter (or maybe more accurately they have a much more vocal and active support group than the SJW's do).
17 year old shit telling the world what to do ? It has made some dubious life choices, goof for it, but keep it the fuck away from us.
I'll be civil... Tyler Preston, via his YouTube channel, just destroyed your arguments put forth in the video. Oh... and when anyone makes blanket statements about an entire group of people they deserve the blowback they receive. After all... that is prejudice, on the part of the SJW.
I don't get it. Why would all these "racists", "sexists" and "transphobes" be so upset and angry about being called racist, sexist and transphobic if they were actually racist, sexist and transphobic? Wouldn't they just agree?
What a load of shit
You're trying to create a victim complex for someone who is openly a fucking moron. It uploaded the god damn video to youtube telling the world that all men are misogynistic, all white people are racist and all straight normal people are transphobic.   Do you realise that?
Please go ahead and talk about anti-SJW videos as a safe space.... that allows dissenting opinions, offensive words and free thought without censorship. While I will point to the likes of Steve Shives (a feminist SJW who is all for safe spaces) who pre-emptively blocks anyone who doesn't subscribe to his kind of crazy.
awww, let's find words to make your plight sound worse than it is at realistic value.  Milo got the reaction she wanted. She shouldn't have brainlessly fell to ignorant ideologies and then tried to insult the majority.  The problem with 'White people are racist" is that the way to be said should be "EVERYONE IS RACIST". God.
an SJW defending actual hate speech... and these idiots wonder why we hate them...  we should calmly debate with a sexist/racist? yeah, getting right on that, buddy.
If you start spouting off some batsh*t crazy things, and arbitrarily insult large groups of people. what do you expect to happen. INSULTS, of course.
Don't talk about SJW's as though you are not one. No neutral observer would instinctively leap to the defense of someone saying that everyone is a bigot and "I don't care about your cisgender feelings".  And quit playing the small violin for the "17 year old". Bad ideas need to be challenged, no matter who it comes from, and this video is oozing with them. If you're old enough to be transgender, speak like an activist and push those views into the public, then you're old enough to get some sense smacked into you.
I'm sorry, but what?  Milo made racist, sexist comments, IN EARNEST, NOT IN JEST and the people saying "You're a fucking bigot!" are the bullies?
This is a really good video! Ive been thinking the same thing this seems to be happening a lot in the anti-SJW movement and they're become almost as bad as SJW's!
Cherry picked evidence really helps liberal agenda doesn't it
Contra, I'm going to give you the benefit of the doubt and assume that you really REALLY don't know that much about Milo other than what is being presented in this video.  I always thought you were an intelligent dude, even back in your Nicotine days, so I'm just going to lay it all out.   Milo is a transtrender.  I HIGHLY doubt that Milo is in any way serious about identifying as a transgendered male.  People don't understand why I go after transtrenders.  "Let them identify how they want! What's the harm?"  Because dipshits like Milo have a decent sized following and spread HUGE amounts of misinfo about social justice related issues.  For fucks sake, in one of his videos, the one you showcase, he recommended two of the most racist motherfuckers on youtube, one of which being BLACK HITLER as a go-to person to learn about racism.  A black supremacist who openly advocates white genocide.  It's because of people like Milo that trans people stay in the closet, in fear of being compared to him.  For fucks sake, his entire youtube bio SCREAMS of edgy attention whore.  "Bras cause me dysphoria but I'm going to wear one for my bio because LE FUCK GENDER NORMS KEK KEK ECKS DEE"  "I'm both non-binary AND a trans boy because LE FUCK GENDER NORMS KEK KEK ECKS DEE"  "I'm aromantic AND asexual despite saying that I want people to find me attractive and fuck me"  "I get criticized by trans people all the time but that's because they don't know about my super special awesome gender powers"  "I, a 17 year old dipshit on the internet, know far more than actual trans folks and the doctors that work on them"  "I'm a trans boy but I'm not going to make a single effort to pass as one, wear dresses all the time, then scream at complete strangers who call me a girl because i fucking look like one"  "GENDER IS A SOCIAL CONSTRUCT.  TO SAY OTHERWISE IS TRANSPHOBIA!  GENDER DONT REAL ONLY FEELS"  and perhaps the biggest red flag, something, they admit in their own video  "I have no interest in taking gender conversion therapy, except to confuse people even more about my gender."  He's a brainless attention whoring idiot, just like the "Die Cis Scum" girl was.  And, no, I don't give a shit that he's "only" 17. I've done stupid shit around that age and was held accountable for my actions just like everyone else.  He's not legally an adult yet, but he sure as fuck isn't a defenseless child.  Years ago when I was around Milo's age, give or take a few years, I made a video about Bodybuilding.com because they made fun of my weight in one of their forums.  I could have ignored it and laughed it off like a normal person, but I decided to be a toughass and mock them on my channel, calling them tiny testicled steroid addicts and the like.  Turns out, openly mocking one of the biggest gatherings of /fit/ members from 4chan wasn't the best idea.  My channel was FLOODED with hate messages, comments about my weight, they attempted to dox me, the whole 9 yards.  It only stopped when I swallowed my pride, manned up, and admit that I was a dick for painting an entire section of people as a stereotype in the first place i.e: /fit/izens all being steroid juicing, small dicked, brainless idiots.  The lesson I learned?  Don't dish it out if you can't take it.
If you selectively go through the comments section of any video, you can find enough comments of any flavor to "prove" whatever narrative you want to push forward.
Hello ContraPoints. I feel like you've made some very fair arguments here. There certainly is a circlejerk surrounding the Anti-SJW movement. As much as I detest SJW-types I dislike this circle jerk very much as well. I've followed a few of the channels you mention here for a long time now and I've seen this as well. It's unfortunate. I've subscribed. It's good to see another view point.  PS. I feel the YouTube channel "Vernacules" does a fantastic job of attacking a point he disagrees with fairly and maturely.
this is a guy who used youtube comment's as evidence for hes retarded claims. if you wanted to fuck milo, just message him. Don't embarrass your self here.
and you resort to the fucking nerds get bullied trope. dude how fucking retarded are you? oh wait your defending the pathetic amoeba that is milo.
for fucks sake why is anyone defending this pathetic girl?
what a pussy
You picked one example of a video to make your point, completely ignoring videos done by undoomed, Bearing, and especially Vernaculis' "main character of the universe" video that all provided a very detailed response to Milo's claims.And sorry, but someone coming out saying "all white people are racist, all cis people are transphobic, all men are misogynists" is going to get the same reaction as "all black people are lazy, all women are whores, and all transpeople have a mental illness".  Milo wanted to spew hatespeech as fact and reaped what he/she/it sowed.  While I don't condone any comments suggesting suicide or threatening violence, I'm not surprised those happened, turns out people are REALLY getting sick of being called things that they aren't, and after a while that tends to boil up into an emotional reaction.  Is it right?  No, but it's not really that different than these SJW tantrums we see when someone has the audacity to disagree with them.In conclusion, you cherry picked a video to make a point while denying all the other videos that did exactly what you say "should" have been done, which is intellectually disingenuous and misrepresentative.
Also if school shootings have taught you anything it's that people have a breaking point and this faux-oppression bullshit is pushing people past it.
So everytime someone comes up with some made up, barely intelligible bullshit you respond with a thorough, scientifically backed tome of sage knowledge? No. You don't! Bullshit invites and gets rewarded with bullshit. No one has time to carefully explain everything to someone who has already demonstrated to be either intellectually incapable or unwilling to understand it. SO we highlight it to others by means of comedy.  I remember you from the Atheism days. I remember crackergate, and all the creationist mocking we all engaged in. You are at the very least a hypocrite.
So basically, I just need to claim to be some kind of oppressed class (tldr: pretend I'm a girl) then I can call people racist, sexist, transphobic, or whatever I want based on nothing more than general attributes those people didn't choose... and if someone calls me out on spewing this irrational hatred or responds in kind, I can rely on you to white knight for me!  Thanks a million, you gullible piece of racist, sexist, transphobic piece of shit!  No no, you have to be nice to me or it's "bullying"!
When I was 17 I could easily take this kind of criticism because to this day I give less than a shit about what people say on the internet ab out me.  This little twit is calling everyone problematic because they don't fit her tiny little mold she acquired from her little collective echo chamber.  I don't hate her because she is trans, I hate her because she is a fucking idiot kid who doesn't know her ass from a hole in the ground.  Some little shitbird punk ass kid half my age trying to tell me how the world is can fuck right off, and I am sure when I was that age I said all kinds of dumb shit on how the world should be and the adults around me just rolled their eyes and told me to shut my fucking face.  It's idiots like her that make me want to throat punch everyone all the time, because as someone in a position of authority in the work force I have to re-train them how to not be a fucking jackass and do their fucking job or they can go elsewhere.
Racist scum deffending racist scum... Get some melonin then comment white racict...
As to The Amazing Atheist's mockery with "eat da poo poo", that is from these model humans in Uganda:  https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=euXQbZDwV0w
That Milo is a teen doesn't mean they get a free pass. Like when I was 16 and I told some "old guy" to stick it, if you want to run with the big dogs, you got to expect to be challenged that you are part of that group  If Milo was talking about how real Santa or the Easter Bunny are, would you say Milo's ideas are worthy? Milo wants to play grown up. He is getting what it is like to be a grown up.
You need to take a course in Critical Thinking.  You are spending to much time in your women studies courses.  The arguments you make here are full of fallacies and are very intellectually dishonest.
As for "Safe Places" those are nothing more than echo chambers where children, yes children, who are used to having their own way, can say anything they want about other people find that they are mocked due to the small fact that reality isn't what they thought?  Safe Spaces is known as Fox News. As for the other You Tube Channels, Pro SJW types can post their (unlike too many SJW channels disable likes/dislikes or that block or delete comments) ideas  What it demonstrates is that a very vocal group of children want their own way and the ones that are getting stepped on are telling them to grow the hell up  As I am telling you to do as well, grow up dude and realize that like a Neo-Nazi skinhead, if you are going to post this regressive, authoritarian, cry-bully (yes Milo was bullying others as he stated we're all {insert racist/transphobe/whatever here} while ignoring other groups that didn't meet his criteria of victims, like men and the misandry we deal with every day
You are wrong. While we need to respect Milo's choice in life (as long as it doesn't affect others with his actions), there is no reason to respect his or anyone's opinions or ideas. He has the right to speak it, however we have the right to mock it and point out the idiocy in his words  I take it you will defend the opinions of RLDS polygamist's words about how he with his 12 wives in southern Utah is righteous in marrying his 13 year old niece? Freedom of Speech says he can speak his mind, and I support his right to speak, but I will mock him and his dumbass ideas. Would you defend his dumbass ideas? If so, I will disagree. If you wouldn't, I will call you a hypocrite  Note how Milo used every buzz word save Misandrist. How his opinions were from two of the most racist and bigoted people on You Tube who if they were "melanoma deficient" (AKA White) would be called out for their hate and bigotry by you, Milo and myself  Free Speech is a Right. Mocking another person's ideas is likewise a right. That is how consensus and understandings are built
i am sorry but i have to defend them. Milo simply insulted most of IT'S viewers. My brother is trans and i don't have a fucking problem with that, so of course i get pissed off at the person who simply calls me transphobic and rascist even if he doesn't know me!There is no reason for me to play nice with milo if he starts the fire! Also what the fuck does IT'S age have to do with anything? Milo steps into the zone of free speech so if IT gets beaten down with sticks than IT should take it like...whatever the fuck IT is! Age is not an excuse for stupidity.
SJWs get bad reputition, downratings and hate for their idiotic, unfounded and offensive claims, videos and contant whining? While Anti-SJWs who counter with entertainment, free speech, actual logic and reason and rationality get good ratings?! How surprising! -Sarcasm off- If someone makes outrageous claims, attacks entire races and genders, is super obnoxious and is downright stupid, of course those people get mocked and hated on. Thats how life goes, dude. Yes, some of those comments youve shown are disgusting, but when you go out of your way to attack roughly 99%-50% of the entire population, you should expect huge backlash.
cherry picked comments which even if that were the only type of comment do you really think they would be responded to? no? neither did we this video is built of the premise that tj caters to people and that we should take people who say 2+2=22 seriously why should we mindlessly be emotionless bags debunkinh the same thing until we can have alittle more sarcasm without getting bs from people like you and tldr
The only reason Anti SJW get so many likes and positive comments is because they have reasonable point of views that most people will agree with. I just can't get over how you could mistake those rude comments as actually points of views for those people. I only liked those comments because I thought they were ironic and funny. I don't genuinely want those things.
You poor fool. You think you can engage in a discussion with these people? Go ahead. Show me.  Extra points if you can defend them....Without being told you're just as bad because you're a man.   The hate isn't because of this person's gender, it's the incredibly bigoted, misguided shit they come out with. They have the right to say it; - the audience (on a public domain) is also well within their rights to rip into that shit. If you hear that shit and you don't refute it, then you are part of the problem.
I'm glad your uploading videos again.  I hope you keep it up, even though this one doesn't seem to have gone over very well.  You made some good points.
What's happened to Milo is the reason I'm too scared to make videos, YouTube is a toxic place and only the lucky few don't suffer from it. I agree that there is certainly a reason minority groups need safe spaces, because we are treated like the scum of the earth everywhere else.
Milo made me want to jump chin first onto a meat hook. BTW welcome to the internet. Where there is no safe space ;)  and btw. That "onslaught" would rather amuse me. Call me weird. But when I make people angry, I find humor out of it.
It's so hard too watch this video!!!
Every time someone clicks thumbs up on this video, a clown dies of sadness.
Hey this is a serious question... does it take work to be as stupid as this?
I don't buy the argument that we should be less harsh on an individual or an opinion because it is coming from someone who is of a 'young age'. I would cringe at my 17 year old arguments now, but whenever I expressed my opinion or stance on subjects, I would not have seen the hundreds of holes in my arguments and developed more nuanced perspectives. I also am fortunate enough to have had the wit not to throw my opinions up on a public forum. I kept my debates within my social groups and verbal so that there is essentially no trace of them to this day beyond my own recollection.
How are you going to group TL:DR and Sargon with the fuckwad amazing atheist?
My thoughts exactly...
Fuck off. Peace out.
Wanna know why these "SJW" Channels get voted down? Because they're spreading sexist and racist bullcrap, censoring and shaming others, shitting on freedom of speech whilest benifiting from it and so on. And yeah, spreading an sexist and racist ideology will cause some people to say very harsh things. Acceptable? No. Understandable? Absolutely.
All i know is I opened Milo's video and with one minute I am hearing that I am misogynistic, racist and transphobic. Seems to me that this is a very poor way to spread a message of tolerance, equality and social justice.
nerd is a hateful comment freak
Good to see you on you-tube again contra. Been having 'that feeling' a lot lately (you know the one) and can't help but think of your last day on earth video whenever I do.  My sympathies for the white hot hate laser that found its way to this channel.
- Criticism = form of free speech                                <= Anti SJW community - Free speech =/= criticism free - Safe spaces = criticism free =/= free speech         <= SJW community - PC = censored speech =/= free speech                   <= YOU and most SJWs - Disabling comments/rating = closing ears and mumbling loud sounds = Denial of Fail           <= Many SJW/religious channels - Removing video/Setting video to private = Realizing that the comment section of your video is not the only place for comments intended for your video = Realization of Fail                <= Many SJW/religious channels - Dislikes/Likes ratio over 30 = I'm just seeking attention anyway (negative or positive doesn't matter)         <= Milo  Conclusion: Don't worry about Milo, s/he's getting what s/he wants :)  Mathematics clears that up rather nicely I think....
Free speech works both ways. Call all "cis" people transphobic and racist and they call you names right back. Doesn't matter if you're a confused 17-year-old. Expect what they call blow back. Milo knew exactly what she was doing; trolling for attention. She got it. Boo-hoo...
I think you are right. Milo should have fair criticism. So here I go: People bombarded him because he was extremely sexist and racist towards white people and men. It's shallow attention seeking by being extremely offensive while acting like a victim. People couldn't go into argument because nothing was build up, just ranting against a group. Like racist and sexists do.  How do you think my comment section is going to be if I created a video where I just slander 99.7% of the population with very discriminating hard language. People don't like sexists, racists and bigots.   But why do it? Because people hold biases? Not shit Sherlock, psychology 101 could have told him that. It is a tool of the mind to process things quickly but people ignore most of the biases they receive. Bias doesn't mean discrimination like suggested in the video. Maybe in SJW minds not in the psychology or in society their definition of it. Completely nonsense. Just like women can be sexist by definition of dictionary, psychology and law. SJW should stop redefining things to get attention or justify their discrimination.  People acting on their bias and deliberately act upon in to treat someone less is discrimination. That is racism, sexism. Not this weird American teen SJW syndrome of shallow babbling the same philosophical nonsense from other SJW. Ever wondered why outside of the group nobody talks and thinks like that? Just because people write philosophical books with own theories doesn't make it true or fact. You think people in psychology work with these theories? They view them as cute self thinking.  Everybody acting like a victim and generalizing whole communities with extreme hate speech. No wonder people hate SJW. Such shallow thinking doesn't even create a debate. That's why they love hearing each other repeat things.  People shouldn't attack Milo. That is cheap. People should ignore him for the shallow attention ranting you consider a good argumentative video. He wanted big attention by being horribly offensive, well he got it but maybe not the ones he wanted.
This one has been triggered. I get it, I know why you made this video but free speech is free speech. The problem with SJWs is that only their free speech is the correct kind of free speech. Please get off the internet or go back to your 'safe space'.
Judging from the dislikes I think the pwnge loving anti sjws are getting uncomfortable from your ending haha
Aah, I love SJWs, their lies are so stupid and their arguments never make sense, just like this vid^^ Keepem comming, someones gotta get me to smile^^
White Knight Syndrome OVER 9000!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
So I should be okay with being called "racist, and transphobic?" because one person says it's "not an insult"? So the SJW logic here is "Don't say retarded, stupid,  etc, BUT it is okay to call someone a "racist" because it's not an insult" XD. Sure. Wait, just to clarify, did you just say, yes there is some truth to the idea that everyone is either racist, or prejudice? Well since we're all making assumptions here. I don't think this person is a victim. I think they are  a spoiled member of middle class, who has no idea about the world below their social class. This person lacks perspective, experience, and is trying to tell a global population that they are racist, misogynistic, and transphobic. I'm sure if I did that, it wouldn't turn out well for me either.
There's no doubt a lot of it is bullying. Comments telling somebody to kill themselves are never okay.  But it shouldn't matter if the uploader is transgender or 17. You are responsible for what you upload on the internet no matter your age or gender. There's no exemption. You risk backlash every single time no matter what it is. Always consider the consequences.  Perhaps the backlash against Milo is representative of the opinions he's spouting. Perhaps this will be more of an eye opener for Milo in the years to come. Maybe it will get him to rethink the many ridiculous claims made in the video. It may be the best and worst thing to ever happen to him. In any case, it will serve as a learning experience.  Shame on anyone that resorts to bullying or threats.
Milo's sources for the video in question and the one previous to it: https://youtu.be/E5Brqo0vSNE , are two of the more (in)famous black racist's on Youtube.   You put garbage idea's in and you get garbage idea's coming out.
Youtube video's are not a Safe Space......unless you turn off the comments.
Your gay
They choose to make videos and publish them in a public sphere, if you choose to speak in public then you are fair game. Free speech giveth and Free Speech taketh away.
Who is this fucking nerd?
guess what, people tend to not like when you call them racist and other insults specially based on nothing but bullshit. So yeah... expect some backlash. And if you can't deal with humour, that's your problem.
Hey, you realize YouTube is a level playing field right? literally anyone can upload and literally anyone can watch and comment. It's not a safespace for anti-SJW's, It's not a safe space for anyone. When you put out a video, you are opening it up to criticism from anyone and everyone. Some of those anti-SJW's you speak of were ripped on just as hard as milo when they started out, but they made smart and entertaining content and persevered and eventually found success. You say Milo's talking points don't go over well with people who are hostile to you from the beginning. I think what you meant to say was people who he called racist and sexist and who are capable of logic and reasoning. If you want to be taken seriously on YouTube you will have to provide evidence to back up your wild claims. If you keep making video's and can back up your claims with evidence I guarantee you you will start seeing video's with mostly likes. (sitting at 280 likes and 772 dislikes as I write this) Btw, TJ's video was shit, so I agree with you there but you picked the easiest target. You say other anti sjw's are worse (thunderf00t for example) yet fail to validate your claims.
NAH
5:00 You say "everyone is racist is kind of true as long as you can distinguish between racism and cultural biases. Surely you mean lump them together.
So Milo puts up a video where he says the most sexist and racist shit imaginable and you think we should feel sorry for him because of the negative comments he gets as a direct result of all the offensive things he says? That's so backwards. Hang on, let me insult your entire family but you can't insult me back because then you're the one being an asshole. Is that really what you think?   TL;DR It doesn't matter that Milo is incredibly offensive, if you don't like his statements you're just a bully.
Brainwashed or trolling? Which do you think Milo was doing?
I agree, the comments to Milo's video were disproportional. Most were far milder, kinder, more nuanced and more considerate than the vitriol and poison Milo spouted.
finally a worthwhile video on this topic
Milo made a video and made some ridiculous unsubstantiated claims about how pretty much everyone are bigots, and got a lot of blow back, is that really any surprise? It is sad that the most upvoted comments were crap, but such is YouTube often it seems, however that does not negate the point that the Milo's claims were quite harsh even though they were presented light-heartedly. I will agree that some of the responses are quite harsh, but when you put up a video on YouTube you have to expect harsh criticism if you talk about a controversial subject, and especially if you start by telling everyone that they are a bunch of bigots.
Quite frankly sir, I don't agree with you. Milo is no victim, rather an uppity seventeen year old little fuck who thinks they understand the world, and how things work. He not only proves he doesn't know how the world works, but how much he buys into bigotry by citing those two racist morons who barely share an IQ in the double digits between the two of them. The three of them have the right to free speech, but it doesn't mean they are entitled to be free of criticism. Now, I say good day to you as I kindly fuck off. :)
"How many of you people could handle these comments."  I not a racist and sexist like Milo so I wouldn't be making the same stupid racist and sexist claims.  Thus, nothing to worry about.  "..or they have become the bullies?"  No, we are defending ourselves from the bully Milo.  "pwnage"  That's because SJW"s are completely immune to facts, evidence, logic and reason.
Get your emotional crap outta here, and welcome to the Internet as well as YouTube. Any person that puts their opinions out in a public sphere should understand they will and can get criticized and or trolled. And if those commenters are nerds then who cares what they say, are you telling me you're afraid of nerds? But your arguments are fucking weak at best. A few years down the road you might get a boost of likes or dislikes and comments, why? Because you put your opinions out in the public sphere...take the good along with the bad and stop whining on the behalf of someone else.  Ps. I've seen many SJW and trans videos on this and they 100% disagreed with the video. So not sure who you're white knighting for, but it gave me a good laugh. Cheers m8
Stop whining about bullying. She put up the stupid video, she got a response. Get the fuck over it. If she is really that hurt, she can just delete the video and close her fucking computer screen. And yes it is a girl...
The reason SJW's videos get more criticism is PROBABLY either because anti-SJW's are more numerous or  SJW's don't argue much because they don't want to get the backlash on their opinions, so I'm guessing there aren't many SJW's making debunk videos about Anti-SJW's videos, therefore their viewers probably don't even KNOW about the anti-SJW videos to begin with! Sure, those were some mean comments on Milo's videos but different people react differently.
Eat up all that stupid collectivism you dolts!
Buhu poor racist.
Sorry but if you upload several videos saying all white people are racist, all men are misogynistic and all cis people are transphobic, you deserve all the hate you get. I get the feeling that you don't realise who you're defending...a bigot. And the reason people like Sargon, TJ, Armored Skeptic have such a good like to dislike ratio is because they make good, logical, well thought out points, instead of someone being blatantly sexist and racist.
Milo called everyone a racist and sexist then proceed to show that 2 black nationalist inspired him. you and Milo have no right to tell us what in our minds and if you going to put your ideas on the net be ready for mockery buttercup.
Internet is anarchy, anonymity, freespeech, and the ENTIRE world is there, every kind of person you can imagine is there.  So if you make a controversial video, put it on the internet but then cant take mockery and criticism...thats on you  Also, those comment doesnt reflect the opinions of all the people who disliked the video, and if ANTI-SJW vids have massive thumbs up and SJW vids has massive THUMBS down I think thats a sign for something
The reason why anti sjw's have a lot of up votes is because they are not going around accusing everyone of being prejudice just because of the way they were born. SJW's on the other hand like Milo are making ridiculous generalizations accusing all people of being prejudice without providing any evidence what so ever to support there claims.  There is nothing about freedom of speech that requires people to be polite and not insult people, in fact freedom of speech is about expressing your views any way you please including how profane or insulting it is. No one is saying Milo can't speak his mind, we are just using our freedom of speech to oppose his. Freedom of speech does not mean freedom to have everyone agree with you or be polite with you.   The reason that so many of us do not argue with feminist is because they do not listen and just right us off as another sexist, arguing with these people using science and logical arguments does not work because there beliefs are based off there emotions. The first time we argue with them we are calm and present facts but when they ignore them and decide to stick to there buzzwords and use arguments from authority, there comes a point when you realize this is a waste of your time and you just start to have fun with it by make jokes at there expense.  None of TJ's voices were racist they were parody's of various videos of anti freedom bigots from those country. This idea that if anyone makes fun of someone who is not white then it is automatically about there race that people are laughing at is ironically vary racist. The reasons why those voices are funny is because he is mocking people who are anti freedom authoritarian bigots. TJ does not miss represent Milo's argument he is actually calling every man sexist and all white people racist, that is not a miss-characterization that is actually what he is arguing, if you didn't understand that you need to re-watch milos video and pay better attention.
Do you believe in truth and falsity, right and wrong? Ever think Milo was just wrong?
Wow, the dislike ratio... It's like you're talking complete shit and being called out for it. Hmmm bullying?????
i'm glad you posted this
Get your apologist ass off the internet.
in fairness, I think a lot of what you say makes sense on some level, but it is not really surprising that Milo gets the heat that he does. I think you can dump your purse out on the table  (ala Breakfast club) and share your vulnerabilities and find some amount of sympathy in a public forum. I think you can stand up on your soapbox and call entire groups of people racist, sexist, trans-phobic, etc. and survive that as well. But if you combine the two, and say I have this identity that I want you to respect, and AT THE SAME TIME, say to people that they are bigots, then you have to expect them to take the vulnerability you have just shared with them, and put their thumb in the wounds. Being 17 means you might not see that coming, but I think you probably could guess how it was going to go over. I do think Milo (and others) take a lot of crap for their opinions, but they essentially call out their enemies, and give them the sticks to beat them with, and then act surprised when the dislike count rises and the ugly comments come. I think it is not unprobable that some people think negative attention is better than none, and do this on purpose to generate view/attention/notoriety. Not sure about Milo, but his comments seem a bit extreme if he was sincerely trying to start a dialog. It seems more like a "double dog dare" to me (but then, who the heck am I, right? I have fewer subs/views/comments then about any human with a channel, and that's fine. You get what you earn).  Your video, on the other hand, take a more reasonable tone and therefore solicits reasonable responses (and some junk as well, but .... it happens). It may be because you are not 17, or because you are more socially adept, or because youare trying to solicit dialogue. or some of all 3. Either way, I think you make a good case, and I would tend to avoid mocking people, but it is a strategy to get views that work. I guess it has a lot to do with what your objectives are.  good video. Upvoted (even though I was 100% with you, I liked to hear your argument).  Keep it up.   ps -  I wouldn't fuck you (since you asked), but since I am already with someone,  you were never considered. :)
maybe the thumbs down are for a reason ;)
bullying can fall under the category of critisism.
Social justice wimps.
Last week... This week someone posts an equally stupid video and will wants to cry when people make fun of him for it. You are allowed to express your opinion, no matter how dumb it is, and we are allowed to mock you for it.  The same compassionate retort you give when someone actually posts something racist or sexist. You know, the one where you have them fired from their job, mocked and harassed online and offline, basically ruin their lives. Lets not even consider what you do when some college boy is *ACCUSED* of rape.  The video that person posted was moronic. A symbol of a dying movement that has too much sociopolitical power. Its not transphobic to say a transgender person said something retarded. Its equality.
I don't approve of the nasty comments Milo was sent but you are glossing over the real issue.Those were HORRIBLE things he said.Really offensive.And if that's what you are going to say in a YouTube video then it is ridiculous to expect not to get horrible comments in return.I do think Milo must be a bit of a masochist...What was he thinking? Unless he was purely baiting just so that he could go "See!!! See!!! See what bigots they are!!!"...The whole thing is absurd..Seventeen is old enough to learn some stuff....like:if you are going to accuse and offend massive groups of people in a very stupid way on a public and often hostile site then you can expect a huge backlash.
eyyy... Why no mountain goat?
Oh boy, see that like/dislike ration, who would have known.
ohhhh were bullying on the internet ohhhh.
You thought '' That young person{ With the extremely ridiculous view points }is being victimised{shown that his video points were nonsense and NOT to be Validated or encouraged }. I need to go and execute a rescue{ as the comment section is full of people using their FREE SPEECH but is in a way that upsets your sensitive, guilted soul }. Why are those individuals{ engaging in the heard mentality getting a cheap thrill } typing rude and not very nice words? I have to go and give my opinion and get some validation  '' you, sir, are worse than the normal SJW, you, sir, are a cunt! Good day to you!
What a weak White Knight you are.  Let the kid stand on his own two feet and take the blowback for his assinine post.  Hopefully he'll have learned something from the experience.
the fuck? milo isn't a victim.
Again: so glad you're back, mate.
+ContraPoints i want you to read this and see how stupid you are!!  you do relies everything that girl said was total bullshit and moronic on a new scale of stupidity  and people told her she is talking shit they called her out for her stupid logic  the fact she says  'all white men are racists' 'all men are misogynistic' 'all Cis People are Transphobic' and the utter moronic views carried on and i was stunned by this level of stupidity of a 17 year old girl  and what she said was racist towards white people (but it is OK for some reason you are allowed to be racist toward white people)  was pure Sexism towards all men (again it OK it's only men and it's even more OK to say this about white male) and then going on about CI's people  and hear this is the so-called meaning of Ci's people  Cisgender (often abbreviated to simply cis) is a term for people whose experiences of their own gender agree with the sex they were assigned at birth.  this meaning and view is moronic   you are not assigned a gender you are born that way, someone doesn't come up to you're parents and say 'what gender would you like it to be' and they choice what gender you will come out as that would then be assigning you a gender  but that is not how it works it's all down to you're chromosomes and what ones you developed    then you go on about a rape culture in the West  go to the middle east and see what a real rape culture because if in the west there was a rape culture women wouldn't say a word they would be to frightened  and western culture is not a rape culture and if you think that leave because the simple fact is there are laws in place to punish rapists   a real rape culture would not have laws like that (kinda sound like islamic culture where a woman needs 4 eye witnesses to get the rapists punished, then she is punished for enticing the men to act in that manner)  so people are fed up with you SJW's and Feminists saying moronic shit like this  the west is not perfect but what you people go on about is total bullshit   and the people see call your bullshit out
Why are you holding the "anti-sjw" community to a higher standard than Milo? I find it ironic to expect a "compassionate and measured retort" to someone who had no issues generalizing an entire race/gender as being racist, transphobic and misogynistic. I think you get what you give, and if you come out with ridiculous hateful ideas you're probably going to receive them back.
Milo is a bully, plain and simple. He very clearly is painting a picture where all white people, straight people, etc. are his mortal enemy because of who he is, because of who they are (the white, straight people). If I were to go on the internet and make a video saying all Black people are out to get me because I'm white, and talk about how they kill hundreds of white people each year, I'd be called a racist. I'd be considered a bully and someone who espouses hate speech. Because Milo is trans, he get's an SJW free pass. It's ridiculous. If you want to say all white, straight men are the worst people ever, as Milo is doing, then you're going to get a lot of shit back for it. As for the other people you show who's videos are massively downvoted, it's because they're race baiting assholes who are continuously spouting unproven, unsubstantiated claims about an entire race and gender and painting them as the enemy of everyone else.   In summation, if you can't take the heat, get out of the kitchen. Milo started a fire and now you're coming to his aid after he burned his marshmallows when it got to big.
Degenerates like you belong on a cross.
Sorry but you're just missing the whole point. He/she/it is jet another SJW bubbling phrases about how bad western society is. In fact the only one who is sexist is he/her/it self. In the video.  Plus: if you can't stand the heat - get out of the kitchen. No matter how old or young you are.
Hello white knight,  some points ? the whole vid was complete utter bullcrap and even if i agree that physical  violence is not the right way if Milo don´t get backlash in his comments he will probably get a really tough life with these opinions i think better he gets the contra online than in reallife. I felt on my own dehumanizes from his video but play the victim card for him  being 17 is not a greencard for being a citizen of assholeville. Rapeculture ? yeah sure in the middle east india and Afrika and sweden but not in the usa investigation about a rape case is not victim blameing.... this amount of stupidity is just not funny anymore, If Sargon would upload a video in what he would ask to kill all black people i think you would see that there is not such a thing as a savespace. And sry that i have  such a racist transphobic DNA i just cant do anything agaginst it because everyone is equal and if someone says something different that is just hatespeech #thxsjw
[   S   A   F   E      S   P   A   C   E   ]
No especially because she is still young she needs as much scrutiny as possible since her parents obviously failed raising her.
SJW voices racist, sexist opinions and refers to two black racist supremacists.  Receive criticism. Other SJW: Waaaah-waaaaah, so mean-spirited!
boohooohooo... Someone had a shitty idea, shared it with thousands of people and got ridiculed for it. Move on.  And please make my day by saying how this comment section proves your point.
When did it become unacceptable to mock bigots?  Milo is one.
I usually don't downvote, because I really don't care. I just downvoted it, because you got so triggered by it.
You, sir, are stunningly full of shit. Milo is not receiving extreme backlash for being trans, nor for being a feminist and no, not even for being an SJW. Milo is receiving an entirely appropriate amount of backlash for condemning every single person on the planet for supposedly perpetrating multiple hate crimes by merely existing. Racism, misogyny, bigotry, homophobia, everyone is guilty just by breathing, thereby validating anyone who wants to claim to be victimized at any given moment. Milo, in his grossly cheerful demeanor, threw shit at everyone else, and now cowers behind his Twitter handle showering the web in crocodile tears that he's being harassed while opportunistic weasels, such as yourself, good sir, jump at the chance to spread more of this nonsensical hatred by leaping on the poo-flinging vessel he broke the bottle across.  So congrats on that dislike ratio. I'm sure it has nothing to do with what you're saying, you being absolved of any and all responsibilities for the content you produce and ideals you espouse, and entirely because everyone who disagrees with you is an evil bastard who just wants to hurt you. Huzzah, victimhood!  EDIT- Side note, it occurred to me that you might be trans. I tried looking around your channel and comments for confirmation, but couldn't get anything definitive. If this is the case, I apologize for the 'sir' shit, I'm just making an assumption. If it's incorrect, I'll make necessary corrections and keep it in mind in case I wind up responding to another of your inflammatory videos in the future.
Okay... So you're saying that none of these mean spirited comments come from SJW's? Are you trying to tone police everyone who is against her opinion with this video? I'm sorry to say it but you failed at making your point. Don't think you can just round up all the disgusting comments and their up-votes and pin it on the whole ant-SJW community. Milo made a conscious decision to kick a hornets nest and no matter what your opinion of the outcome, you cannot dictate how people are supposed to react. Look at your own damn community and see the vitriol it produces before you start painting Milo as a victim. It's funny, you suffer from the same damn affliction as the rest of your crowd suffers from: you can't see past the end of your nose. You might want to take of your Regressive lens and actually look upon the real world with your own eyes for once in your life.
what part of Milo's vid holds up to reality exactly? if you put dumb stuff up online it will be pointed out, case in point.
Poor Milo ignorantly calls me (ALL white ppl) transphobic, racist, bigot & etc..., then doesn't want to deal with any critiques I MIGHT have with these charges. FUCK OFF!
3:27 wich is the exact reson for our reaction.
2:05 With your logic the west enjoyed 9/11 and think ISIS is funny.
Fucking idiot.
You are an apologist for a blatant sexist and racist.
I like how you're trying to have a calm debate here. But. People like Milo need to be called out on their bigotry. Same goes for many feminist, SJW, BLM & LGBTXXXXX videos put on YouTube. The main premise in most content uploaded by these people is that anyone not agreeing with them is homophobic, racist, sexist etc. etc. That is an offensive stance. That will always get blowback. Trolls & foul-mouthed people are but a part of that blowback. What about the many calm, intelligent responses. They are ignored & never highlighted by apologists like you. If you scroll through the comments on these vids (when they are left open!) there are many comments that lucidly, calmly & factually discredit the argument put forward. Answer those arguments. Here's an example. Just the first rational calm comment. Go through and read the many. When people like Milo, and you apparently, can debate facts and reality, the world will improve exponentially.  NickH I love how people like you Miss Stewart just lash out at the racist stereotypes yet you yourself use unproven racial stereotypes all over this video. You're doing the very thing that you are stating you hate. Is the categorization of people based on ANY race into a certain negative category not the very example of the racism you so desperately lash out at people for? Or I guess you'll tell me how white people aren't a race as a means of deflecting your completely bat-shit reasoning behind your statement rooted in white guilt. I can't wait to see this comment removed. Go ahead do it. The only easily offended millennial here is YOU and removing my comment would only prove my point.
So lets summarize: The video you use as an example is TJ's, giving no context to the 'insults'. Show a bunch of comments, claiming they are transfobic while they are not (telling someone to kill themselves isn't transfobic. Being transfobic would be a statement similar to "trans people should kill themselves") The closest it gets is using it as a pronoun, which some trans people actually embrace. But maybe the images don't match what you say, in which case you are just making empty claims. The next set are comments that have no upvotes, so the standard you proposed for what is representative of the community, upvotes as a measure of popularity, doesn't apply. Here you claim people accused of transfobia respond with transfobia, but that isn't what the comments do. The first is a points out hypocracy, the second is an opposing worldview. The third one is might be slightly transfobic, but I'd say it is mockery rather.  Really, this is quite inconsistent. You could at least try to find examples that match your claims. Also, a safe space isn't a place where one set of idea dominate, but a place where opposing idea's are banned. In other words, when idea's are openly discussed, it is not a safe space. The reception of these idea's are not a way to measure this. And yes, removing comments is banning other idea's, which is indicative of a safe space. That is against free speech. Allowing someone to have their opinion and criticising it is free speech. All of those youtubers can face it, but their idea's are just better. They get criticism (or bullying if that is what you want to call it) as well, mostly on idea's that aren't just anti social justice, such as politics.  Also, you make quite some assumptions on the commenters that you base only on the results: there are nerds that have experienced bullying, are hostile towards other idea's. If you didn't make those assumptions, you'd have another view on this. If you assume the commenters are just regular people from all kinds of backgrounds, looking into idea's and coming to their own conclusion, you'd have to conclude that her idea's probably aren't well formulated, or even just flat out wrong. Hmm, that seems somewhat close to what you say, how could that be?  You can't just change the definitions of words and expect people to accept it. You can reject a definition, for example because it lumps together two very distinct concepts under one umbrella term.  Really, you a just the pot calling the kettle black. Misrepresentations everywhere.
Are you serious?  Milo produces a highly insulting and defamatory video and you defend yhe idiot for having thier narrow minded, racist and bigoted point of view!
'uncis' guilt is strong with this one, too : )
You're a fool. You can defend a racist sexist all you like. Just get ready to be mocked as much as Milo is.  You also heavily cheery picked the comments you show in your video. Odd how i go to Milos video now and see that most of the top commitments are not "transphobic". Mean spirited, sure. But alot are really just calling Milo out on his/hers bullshit.  So, now i know you are disingenuous as well as being an tryhard edgelord.
Foddamn Gaggit
Milo's not a he at least not yet. She hasn't had the sex-change operation yet. In some videos you can see her bra straps. Sorry she'll be a he when she has her conversion surgery.
ContraPoints, why do you have to lie and distort to support your opinions? Why do you engage in the same kind of behavior for which you condemn others? - Standing for Free Speech has nothing to do with being "measured" or "compassionate".  It is _unpopular_, controversial and _offensive_ speech, that needs to be defended...not saying,  _"Hello, good sir. And how are you this fine morning?"_  - You're talking about ANTI-SJW's.  Did you see the ANTI-George Bush protesters? Hanging Bush effigies? Have you _heard_ "Progressive" Liberals talk about Rush Limbaugh, Sean Hannity, or Fred Phelps?  Being opposed to something enough to call yourself ANTI-that, is not saying, "Let's be pals, buddy." It's _opposition_. I will never understand why it's praise-worthy to make merciless fun of Creationists, Scientologists, Anti-Vaxxers, People Who Think The Earth Is Flat, Trump Supporters, etc., but it's not okay to mock people who think there is a conspiracy to own the bodies of women and mind control them into thinking they are not allowed to be interested in Science, by making a pink aisle and a blue aisle at Toys Я  Us.  - Please stop culturally appropriating Hip Hop beats in your intros.  White people like you _have_ no culture, therefore, you must not play music in your videos...unless...you're an, Imperialist Racist Bigot-Vampire?  - Instead of simply throwing out accusations, can you please give some examples of how Tyler Preston's video was "mean-spirited"?  He seems to be one of the nicest, calmest guys on the planet.  - When you say that people who watch T.J., are "brainless fucking insects", and that Thunderf00t lacks self awareness, is that "criticism" or..."bullying"?  - Why is it wrong for T.J. to mock a 17 year old on the internet, but it's A-Okay for you, a grown man, to mock 17 year olds in this video?  - Ageist much?  - "Everyone" was _NOT_ dehumanizing Milo. That is a flat-out lie.  I _know_ that you're not going to get a response if you just insult someone, and I have respectfully asked Milo to plug some holes in Milo's arguments, and I very much wanted a response, and I have been ignored. If you can say that every Anti-SJW was being transphobic/abusive...guess what, we can also say  that every Muslim is a dangerous Jihadist who wants to impose Sharia Law on America,  and every Feminist is a crazy man-hater who thinks all Penis-In-Vagina sex is rape, etc. I notice you didn't care to showcase any comments like these: *"Look please remove the video, you do the whole internet a favor.Your not accomplishing anything but making yourself look bad."*  *"Don't you think you're a little to young for lording above everybody else? Here is a lesson: You can't change the people, you can only change yourself. Think about it."*  *"As it is with 95% of arguments on the internet, the main issue is semantics. Definitions and connotations of words aren't decided by you, by fellow activists, or by publishers for Webster's Dictionary. Meanings of words are determined by popular usage in a language that's constantly evolving. If you make personal definitions for words you can't turn around and blame everyone else for not respecting those definitions."*  Are those^ dehumanizing abusive bully-posts? Yeah, I guess you just have more fun talking shit about "Them" those dastardly "Anti-SJW"-insects.......who DEHUMANIZE people.  - An open comment section is _not_ a "Safe Space" unless the channel runner blocks and deletes dissenters.  I'm not aware of any Anti-SJW who has done that, because they _like_ to argue and they _love_ to give SJW's enough rope to hang themselves.  It's usually Religious people, 3rd Wave Neo-Feminists, Intersectional Vegans and Black Supremacists that delete/block commenters.  - Being liked and/or disliked, is not "unsafe".  Every Anti-SJW rating example you showed, had very many dislikes.  It is absurd to imagine that these speakers are safe...safe, but if the dislikes ever crawl up to 1 more? 10 more? 100 more? than the likes,  suddenly, the Anti-SJW is being horribly victimized, bullied and is made "unsafe". _Utter_ nonsense. Why do you have one set of standards for Anti-SJW's, and another set of them for SJW's? We call that a "Double Standard".  - I have been sitting through "this kind of shit" for years.  My fucking life was threatened twice earlier this week, in youtube comment sections, once for quoting the Quran and the Hadiths to back up the assertion that Muhammad had sex with a 9 year old Aisha, when asked to do so, and once when I explained to a TYT fan that for some people who work security, it is actually their job to go into the restroom and investigate whether there is a man in the "Ladies Room". Of course, I'm not a 17 year old, so, I guess _I_ must just be naturally made of sterner stuff, right? It's amazing how condescending and patronizing people like you are, toward those you try to defend.  - People aren't necessarily "hostile from the beginning" _causing_ Milo's communication of ideas to fail/backfire.  Plenty of people are hostile toward dogmatic bigotry, and _then_ Milo expressed just that.  - My God, I despise you, your hypocrisy, your double standards, your chivalrous 17 year old-rescuing virtue-signalling, and your videos.
Milo was looking for an argument with his video. As it was released he tweeted "Welp. Just filmed the video. I hope I only upset the right people with it." If you're filming a video with the intention of upsetting people then he shouldn't be surprised or defended when those same upset people let him know about it. Why does Milo have the right to talk shit and basically insult people by telling them they're hateful bigots but nobody can tell Milo that he's a fucking spaz?  Also, you're a fucking spaz.
I would say something very embarrassed since Frozen by soon as I possibly can be the reason people dislike Milo's video was not because of him being a progressive in fact it wasn't about him being a transfer so it wasn't about any of those things it was about the fact that he puts a claim that every single person regardless on who you are what your background is or anything of the sort you are racist you are a misogynist you are a bad person but he goes even further to say because we live in a western Society it is just something that's ingrained in all of us even if none of us think anything different other people are there people who think certain things because of their brain but other people who just are these things because society says so no we are all individuals we all have our own minds we are not immediately racist as soon as we grow up that is a horrible claim and he has very bad ratings because it was a very bad video you really need to stop thinking that there's some sort of victim complex and for some reason this kid regardless of if this is a kid or not it does not matter if you put something on the Internet is going to be critiqued especially if you're going on a controversial topic so stop defending him you really should because everybody is susceptible to criticism you are I am every single YouTube Creator is if you want to put your foot in the water you better be ready to swim
Speech / expression control (tone policing) as an argument?   It isn't.   Further, using the term "bullying" to refer to an expected tidal wave of disfavor after making broad-stroke statements that condemn the majority of the population is dishonest. Its employing argumentum ad passiones in order to erase the responsibilities attached to Milo's sentiments, and further, the fact that Milo initiated said conflict.   Initiating confrontation and a response to it arent equal.  Also, comments getting 30+ up thumbs within a disfavor climate of 20,000+ isnt representative of the average objecting party.  ...and combating 'bullying' by dubbing 20K+ strangers "nerds" and another 868k+ strangers "brainless fucking insects"?  HaHaHaHaHaHaHaHaHaHaHaHaHaHaHaHaHaHaHaHaHaHaHaHa  Entirely self oblivious.   Watch me employ convenient disparagements while wielding a proper behavior and tone position, and opposing 'bullying'.  Self cancellation   >>> Self awareness needed <<<
I put this in my playlist, and I think a lot of comments directed at Milo are too extreme, but I think you are disingenuous on a few points. Firstly several of the top-rated comments on Milo's videos were not vitriolic insults but people actual discussing the points and disagreeing with them. Next there are SJW channels out there that have a high subscriber base and high ratings such as Kat Blaque.
I get what your saying at but Milo did something he shouldn't have and its base people on race and gender and assume all whites and Cis are trans-phobic and racist, Milo did the exact thing that most SJW make mistakes at, Milo is not a victim and even as a 17 year old he should have know what he would have gotten himself into making that video, its like this... You mess with the bear then you get the claw, you mess with the bees then you get the sting. Milo mess with how society of identity work with online and he got the internet hate. Milo got what he deserve
Milo should try thinking for herself instead of just repeating the stuff she has been brainwashed with in college.
Milo found out making a bunch of unfounded, insulting generalizations about huge groups of people will get you blowback, good learning experience. I've looked over his site and many the comments might have been brutal but made salient points. Next time if he wants more respect he should give more respect.
Milo made her bed and she will lie in it (as the racist Bigfoot she is). You are the flower children of the future getting beaten down by facts.
You even stole your theme song
Your opinion is shit
Brains....Brains
Stand on a soapbox and insult everyone, and then call it bullying when everyone who heard you insults you in return.  People responded with the level of respect they felt Milo had demonstrated to them. And Milo was a condescending dick about his point.
I find it interesting you rail against ridicule while at the same time you ridicule. Pot, meet kettle. Also, your video contains baseless speculation and generalization.  Are you going to patrol each and every video on youtube and rail against the people who troll each one?   You're not going to get rid of the trolls dude. It's not going to happen. They already know they're acting like turd monkeys. They don't care. You won't shame them into good behavior. And you're never, ever, going to be able to take the trolling and use it to mask the legit opposition to a video. There's always going to be trolls and there's always going to be cogent counter-arguments or polite differences of opinion.
Milo is not a victim.  He said some extremely derogatory and bigoted things in her video and like anyone who is the recipient of her diatribe, people got angry.  Consider that someone like Fred Phelps (if he were alive today) making a video against anyone that is gay/bi/etc.  I wouldn't be surprised that people would be angry.  Just like Fred Phelps and the WBC brought heat upon themselves, Milo is responsible for making people angry and voicing their anger back at her.  Is much of the comments transphobic?  Yeah.  But to put into perspective, he got blowback from the very people he said were 'transphobic'.  'All Cis People Are Transphobic'.  Again, expect a very huge blowback when you say that stuff to a huge population of 'cis' people.  I have no sympathy whatsoever towards Milo.
TL;DR ContraPoints thinks criticism is bullying, typical SJW
So a comment that has 569 likes represents a "group" with over 25,000 video dislikes (which is about 0.02%).  Wow, don't let math or reason get in the way of a poor attempt at guilt by association.
You argument is one strawman after another, and you seem to havemore bias than the people you are attempting to tear down. If people are going to make inflammatory statements on worldwide social media you can't be surprised when there are people who sling mud back at them.  Yes, some of the comments were hurtful and unnecessary, but that's social media for you. You can't blame TJ or Sargon etc for other people being assholes. People get upset with feminists and SJW's co opting words like "rape" and "racist".  They use the words to describe behaviours or actions which the words were not designed for and in doing so they water down the meaning of the words.  They also make people angry because people don't like being called these things if it doesn't apply to them. If Milo meant socialised prejudice and bias then Milo should have damn well said as much.  Using the words racist and sexist to describe everyone just isn't accurate or fair. You talk about the anti SJW comminity as if it some kind of fringe movement full of crazy, abusive zealots, whereas SJW's are the fringe group.  This is why their content gets so many dislikes and so much hate. People dislike their ideas because they do not reflect the reality of peoples lives. You are also strawmanning the idea of "safe spaces" by saying you understand why SJW's want safe spaces on Youtube etc.  They never asked for safe spaces to get a respite from internet hate online.  Safe spaces are promoted in college environments (and elsewhere) to protect the "mental health" of the students if they're triggered or traumatized by any ideas, or teachings.  It infantilizes the students and tells them it is ok to be emotionally and mentally weak, that it is normal for their every whim to be catered for.  This is not the reality of the outside world, and students need to be prepared for the world outside of education.  Many students today believe that college is not primarily an environment for the free exchange of ideas and to learn about a multitude of differing ideologies and concepts.  They believe that it is a place where their already preconceived ideas are protected and validated at every turn.  The idea of an _online_ safespace is a meme.  You are strawmanning a meme, how does that feel? I wont make this into a book because it is already too long, but your response is one long strawman riddled with biases against these content creators (and their audiences).
I laughed at the part suggesting that mean comments shouldnt exist, the irony in that statement is too much for me to handle, when you just generalized all commentors as geeks and bullies and so much more, can't resist stooping to our level huh? The fact you do not even have that level of self awareness is amazing sense you praised Amazing Atheist for it.   I also hate that your is implying that aniti sjws do not get a on slot of negative comments as well, yah forget the fact that sjw called thunderfoot hitler, and tried to get him fired from his job and so much more, naw that totally doesn't happen. Forget MudaneMatt got swatted and and every sjw get a onsolt of death threats everyday even doxxing them and sending bomb threats as well. Oh but I guess a few comments calling someone a fag is much more important huh?  Where is the anti sjw opression parade then? They get get more shit on a day to day basis for speaking thier thoughts,  and even sometimes harmed for it, I never heard of sjw that happening too so don't paint them as innocent victims.  Totally ok to generalize a entire race of people even saying they should die, which if you looked into the trans person where they got thier opinions from, the girl who they got it from literally is hitler because she believes white people are genetically inferior and deserve to die.  Oh that totally doesn't deserve criticism, when she basically calling for the Holocaust part 2!  This is coming from a jew and I will tell you straight up, they deserve to get pubically mocked, because intellectually that is how all stupid ideologies are stopped if you looked into history.   Why do you think Christianity has become a joke to people? because it been brought into the light and pubically mocked.  I guess we bullied the catholic church for them molesting children huh? Believeing it was ok because they thought it was "cleansing thier homosexual demons," because you know no one can have a harmful ideology that hurts people and voilates thier basic human right's right?  I don't comment on sjws in my commetaries because I don't want to deal with thier mentally retarded comments,  because they are more likely to give you those comments and try to ruin your life entirely. Proof is the show "The Internet Ruined My Life," where many sjws went on and lied about thier expierences to get money while ruining the reputations of the people who called them out on thier bullshit.  I have so much more to say about the fact stat of rape on campus and stuff like how sjws have made this horrible event of rape, a event that RUINED MY LIFE into a fucking joke in order to gain MONEY off of!  Proof is that girl in the rolling stone interview who LIED about being raped! She ruined all these boys lives just for some money! That's real fucking bullying if you ask me and SHE GOT AWAY WITH IT!  Why? because people like you say "listen and believe," because your become so ignorant to the real world you have forgotten people will lie and do anything to get ahead in life.  There is so much more, but I think the anti sjws you called out in the video can say all of this a lot better than me.  Sjws are the biggest bullies I have ever seen and have ended up making horrible events that have ruined my life and many others into a fucking joke.  Also by the way, ever figured the comments you showed might of also been joking?  Oh but jokes are always serious statements huh? I guess me saying a girl got a blueberry butt, that must mean she is a deformed fruit mutant who got a blueberry for an ass.
Awwww. . . sticks and stones, you sissy.
Well, according to Milo, you are a racist, trans-phobic, misogynist.... or do you not think that applies to you?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5q4kwxwf0wU  Good luck trying to spin this mate. Protip:  maybe you should read up on what transphobia really means, because you`re mostly confusing it with mockery.
You are a complete moron.... enough said.
Milo isn't a fucking victim. Get the fuck out.
You crybully white knights are the problem in our society , who do you defend biggots who are hateful
Dude, you're full of shit.
being anti-SJW is a good thing. oh also bashing islam isn't racist.
have you ever considered nerds don't like sjw because  there just like B.A.D.D https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Patricia_Pulling  just replicas satanism with sexism racism and is the same thing
I like how you generalized nerds as the ones spreading hate comments on this person's channel. Well, I'm a nerd and haven't touched that person's comment section as it would be waste of my time. Don't lump me in with other assholes of the internet!!!
this isn't a joke or troll post...you sound just like a guy that reviewed fleshlights. and before i get made fun of for knowing that. yes i have a sexuality and masturbation is a thing i do.
Milo's video had 100k views. His top comments, as asinine & worthless as they were, received 500 thumbs up. That ratio is not what anyone calls representative of the general audience.  The majority of the video responses addressed his claims, and got upset and vocally offended when Milo called them racist, hate-filled, bigots. I think that's fair. After all, if you check Milo's "about" page, or his tweets, he intends to cause offense and claims not to care about the feelings of the cis-gendered.
The thing is, when you go around calling all white people racist, you deserve to be openly mocked for it. Not threatened, but ridiculed for your regressive and hateful ideas. That is the beauty of freedom of speech, people like milo are free to express their bad ideas and those that hear them are free to expose those ideas for what they are, hateful and spiteful ramblings of a regressive douche. I want milo to keep making videos, he'll either learn basic human compassion and empathy and get smart, or those of us that don't hate people that aren't just like us will have another example of how not to behave.
Act like a bigot and you will be treated like a bigot. Milo is bigoted to numerous groups, based merely on their happenstances of birth, and yet you sit there chastising those who dared to take offense?   Well that's your prerogative, but you want to know what I find interesting when I look at your channel? You haven't made a single video response to Milo's videos. I find it interesting because it is you tacitly admitting that bigotry is more permissible in your eyes than being mean to bigots.
Don't waste your breath ContraPoints. The anti-SJW crowd has become a cult and youtube is their temple. Criticise them and they'll descend upon you like a horde of angry scientologists.
Time out you say it is wrong for anyone to be against anything SJW but yet when explaining Milo's profile and how his description says "I don't care about your cisgender feelings", you have no problem at all looking over that fact based only on his age. I personally think that most of this is smoke and mirrors. What I mean by that statement is everyone wants to say they are backing the most righteous, courageous, and down right good willed cause ever. Yet the issues that are being raised by these people are old ones that have been presented by others in their group a million times better, basically I think this is nothing more than attention whoring at its finest that does nothing if not hinder the progress of the SJW community, and it can be specifically contributed to Milo's lack of awareness of anything other than what he would like to have put in front of him.
Nice to see you back and I like that some more nuanced voices are popping up. You should watch ThePeach's response to Milo's video if you haven't.
keep up the good work, dude.
This is the video I needed to see.
THANK YOU SO MUCH FOR THIS MAN. I watched that video the other day and the comments made me wanna puke. It feels great to see a mature reaction, thanks a lot man.
*Shows Franchesca Ramsey's video as an example for mass downvotes followed by boos, even though out of the 3, hers is more 50/50 and leans more towards like rather than dislike*  You couldn't cherry pick one more example of a SJW vid that had overwhelming downvotes, or did you have trouble finding SJW videos that even allowed ratings in the first place?  Though honestly, I know it isn't hard to find sjw vids that are massively downvoted, I just don't understand why you didn't pick a 3rd one for your shitty "safe space" example.
Why would you put up images of all those "anit SJW's" when the vast majority made no video about Milo. It is disingenuous.
So saying the most vile bigoted things about men, white people and heterosexual people is fine but when that someone like that milo bitch gets a backlash that's when you step in and where you draw the line? Wow... what a white knighting faggot you've become.
I don't know if you're aware of Kristi Winters, by the way, but she just put a brief video out today about a study on gender bias in the STEM fields. I'd link but don't want to get booted for spam. Just thought you might be interested.
milo is not transgender. she is transtrender
The problem is, from the perspective of Milo as an internet event, this could be gold, if they can weather the storm. Both social justice rhetoric and that of the reactionaries are linguistic TNT. Each refined by the other in a crazy kind of codependence. SJ snark and jargon are what they are because the internet measures success in views, and that rhetoric is the most efficient at pissing off their respective reactionaries, thus getting precious traffic. In turn, the abusive catharsis of those reactionaries is irresistible fuel to social justice (b/v)loggers eager for this news cycle's prime example of how right they are. These kinds of pundit/antipundit mobs don't look for careful consideration of complex issues. Instead these mobs basically just gravitate toward a good place to fight, else they lose their energy and fade into the background... as the original youTube atheists did. No new fights, no new energy, no reason to stay coherent. Milo put up a lightning rod and has gotten lightning. And if you are representative of those who share Milo's apparent perspective, that lightning will in turn attract others from their side in support... and Milo will get all the joys and sorrows of being an internet battleground. Hopefully, that's what they wanted. ~shrug~
I'm glad you're back! And you brought your convictions! And you're utilizing your editing skills and sense of humor! I wish you the best of luck in maintaining motivation and inspiration for future things. Now I'm going to go see if there's a setting to get text message notifications on uploads for one specific channel.  You beautiful, entertaining, reasonable son of a bitch.
i always knew youd come back one day to save us all.. this was fucking epic. you have reached final form. fantastic.
Milo is a female with a vagina.
O NOES people were mean in the comments, because as we all know that didn't happen back in the "golden age" of atheism right? O wait... it did. Self awareness I have to ask if you have any...  Now onto this bs about bullying... I remember when theists used to do this back in the day. Claim anything they didn't like was bullying. So it's funny as shit that you are now using the same tactics that you and others used to call out. So my question would be, why can't you see this?  Also, people on the internet aren't the nicest sometimes... but as I already said, that happened back in the day as well. It's like you've decided to ignore that to make your fail arguments.  Now onto this "safe space" about anti-SJW video bs... are you for fucking real? Couldn't I make the same argument about atheist videos as well? Again, you fail to see the comparison there as well. O NOES! People like there videos... NOES! Yet what did people like you say when christians used this as a point? You called them retards and made fun of them and rightly so... but now you're using this as a point?  So ya, you really need to stop holding to the double standards, remove the rose colored glasses and stop using the same arguments you were calling out not to long ago. Maybe you should use your head and stop drinking the kool aid...
Have you ever considered that maybe Milo's videos have a lot of dislikes because they're full of bad ideas? You called videos that have a lot of likes "safe spaces" which is a complete misuse of the phrase. A public space where anyone can comment anything and share their opinions is not a safe space just because you disagree with what a video says and it doesn't have a lot of dislikes. What you seem to be asking for when you talk about a safe space for the people who agree with you, is a place where "mean comments" (opinions that disagree with what the person in the video is saying) are not allowed, and thus bad ideas go unchallenged.  You may think Sargon's videos are full of bad ideas, but you can easily contact Sargon publicly (twitter, youtube comments) and there's a good chance he will respond. On the other hand, Feminist Frequency does not respond to criticism, and disables comments on all of her videos. This is because if her ideas are put up to scrutiny, they quickly fall apart; this is what happened to Milo's videos.  What you should be asking yourself is why people who adopt your ideology are so demanding for a space where bad ideas go unquestioned and why those who oppose it are not. Could it perhaps be that your ideology is full of bad ideas that could not survive scrutiny?
Go be a tranny somewhere else.
One of my biggest problem with Milo's video (and frankly many of the so called Social Justice talking heads) is that Milo just comes across as another white person of privilege telling others what to do.  I grew up in shack with no running water, and a crappy generator for electricity that we had to use sparingly.  That meant no working toilet, and bathing out of a bucket. Do you have any Idea how degrading that was?  Why should I tolerate being told to  "check my privilege" when none of you social justice type understand a thing about the world I grew up in?   Why should I tolerate being labeled racist and transphobic by person who has no clue what it was like for me having to deal with being rejected by some members of my family for being racially impure?
They are showing Milo EXACTLY the same amount or respect he provided them.
That seems like an extreme claim, ContraPoints.  Why do you say all anti-SJW people are bullies?  -To be fair though, you're completely  right in that TJ caters to the single-minded 12-15 year old youtube audience (which, based off of pewdiepie's 43 million subscribers, is the VAST majority of youtube users).
Oh wow, there is a person who straight up says that all people who are not trans are transphobic and you expect him to not get hate? It's just like black person saying all whites are racist holy shit dude. And stop using the "He is just 17 yers old give him a break" argument, it's shit. It's youtube, it's the internet ok? I honestly don't care about how old you are or where you come from. People judge you based on your actions and what you say not just think "Hmm, he is talking complete and utter bullshit and well, he is 17 so I guess I shouldn't say anything about it and just encourage him!"?
Trump 2016!!!
This video makes a fatal flaw in assuming SJWs listen to and engage in honest arguments. Knowing that they don't do this, people who don't enjoy being lied to are going to wish them death, which I actually do advocate. There has to be a consequence for being dishonest. One big part I totally agree with you on is that these Anti-SJWs constantly and without halt go for the low hanging fruit. Some of them might even use it as a defense mechanism to signal that they are Centrist when they are pretty hardcore leftists.
Nice cherrypicking.
"Nerds being bullied and becoming betas" Top KeK These were the late '80s till mid '90s nerds now making 200K a year not caring for Troll wars. SJWs and there antithesis are millenial geeks, with no deep understanding of soft- or hardware but able to use communication as a weapon.   Lets face it, they will be the future war generation and dieing in the millions, fortunately nothing of value will be lost.
Wanting a formal arugment of the internet. Good luck buddy
claim on the internet that almost everyone is a terrible person (nothing personal just facts!). expect to not get shit flung at you.
Cry bullies
If you're gonna spew completely uneducated and bigoted hate speech on a public forum you should expect some shit back for it. I don't feel bad for milo at all.
Thank goodness we live in a world that assholes just don't exist. Only sexist bullies.
So, a pretentious kid with a holy than thou attitude condescendingly explains how everyone but him is automatically bad and you defend him from "bullying?".
Ahh.. BUHU.. Neo-Marxist Bulshit must be confronted at all times. We are sick of this anti white and anti western hate that is backed up by nonsense soscial science.  BTW Nice "you're all Nerds" arugment. Stick with the booze Moron.
Nobody hates this kid because she is trans.  People hate her because of the extremely stupid shit that comes out of her mouth and that fact that there are alot of people like her who think the same thing.  If you say stupid shit on the internet accusing almost everyone on the planet of being some kind of "phobic" and racist, then expect people to tell you what they think.
>say left handed people are the only true human the rest should be killed or kiss my feet >right handed people tell him, thats harsh, and dumb, makes no sense >now this backlash is somehow proof that people literally hate and discriminate against left handed people and want them killed  okay dude
Do people really take youtube comments section seriously? Milo posted a shitty video and got a shitty response. Move on with your life.
Here's a summary of this video for those with no time to watch the whole thing "Stop insulting this moron, the fact that he called all straight people racist sexist, transphobic and evil doesn't mean he asked to be insulted" Maybe you should think about your argument a little harder before you upload to avoid looking like a moron in the future cheers!
le edgy viewpoint
"Did you know that some people are assholes?" the video
the anit anti sjw video oh okay
YOU FUCKING RACIST MISOGYNISTIC NAZI  W-wait, why are you acting so harsh to me all of a sudden; It was just criticism!  DURR SJWs DONT GO WATCH ANTI-SJW VIDS AND CRITICISM, ANTI-SJWs LIVING IN A SAFE SPACE!!!!
Those last seconds. :D :D
milo is gonna fly you out and give you a night of pleasure, good sir. a valiant defense of xir honor!
TJ didn't once seriously attack Milo's gender identity. He referred to him as his pronouns throughout the entire video, and while he did make a few jokes it was all in jest. Also, when it came to the "racist caricatures," TJ was using comedy to convey his message like he is known to do to his audience that comes to him for comedy. Whether you actually find TJ funny or not is a whole different thing, but that was his intention and I don't think there was anything wrong with it.  I do agree with you that the anti-SJW circlejerk has gotten out of control and the actual transphobia and general bigotry that goes on in the comments section of some of these videos is pretty gross, but those are not the views of TJ. Also, TJ didn't link Milo's video in his video description or anything. TJ never promoted his fans to go and harass Milo in his comment section, they all did that of their own free will. If you hold TJ accountable for what his fans have done in Milo's comment section I think you're holding TJ to an unfair standard where it prevents him from making video responses to certain types of people because of what his fans might possibly do. I don't think that's realistic and I don't think he's at fault for any harassment he didn't directly promote.
what's the song being played in the video???
People like Milo and Brianna Wu are the some of the reasons for which people hate us. No we do not need safe spaces in the internet,  you seem to have a very low opinion of Trangender when you think about us as pathetic weaklings who need a safe space.  Welcome to the internet, if you are making a ridiculous claim, you will be subject to criticism, learn to deal with it,  but don't try to censor the internet because you can't handle criticism.  I'm not an anonymous  coward as you claim,  yes I'm  a nobody,  but still  I will do my part to defended freedom of speech.  Now I understand why so many Transgender people go stealth  and stop identifying as Transgender,  is because they don't want to be associated with people like Milo, Brianna and you.
What's bonkers to me is at 6:49 two of the people verbally abusing a 17 year old are using their actual names. Two of them use their real pictures too.  If you look at comment sections on Milo's videos and others like him, real names and photos alongside the most vile hate comments are really common. It's staggering how people who behave so transparently awful can be anonymous so easily and choose not to.
Welcome back to Youtube....Justicar has already offered a valid challenge to your other video.  I'm eager to see your idea's get wrecked in some of the mentioned peoples future video's!
What a horrible video. Don't wanna sound too incendiary or you'll call me a bully, but this video is poorly made and presented.
Hiya, there! Nice to meet you! I am myself right on board with the "wtf leave teenage kids alone, grown ass adult freaks, what the fuck is the matter with you?" argument. I have been on the comments sections after a Bearing or Undoomed critique vid comes out and it is fucking disturbing.  Anyway, I wasn't around for your first incarnation, but the rebirth has been the shit so far, so welcome back!
> Free speech. > They used their free speech wrong!
Interesting counterpoint, but you went for ageism.  If Milo wants to play in the big pool with everyone he better learn how to swim.  Don't tell me Milo had no idea what kind of shitstorm was going to hit him with that video.  If you want a safe space on the internet, go to disney.com
Respond to Justicar, made a video about you.
LOL. So it's okay to give racists and bigots shit. But only when they're not special snowflakes. Dude, seriously. WTF happened to you?
what happened to you? you used to be smarter. i support freedom of speech, and i will fight to protect it. as someone who is considered a jew, i will support the freedom of speech of a Natzi! but i will also support my freedom to call him an idiot and to show that what he is saying is full of shit! i do not need to be compassionate or nice, to support it. because if i don't then i would not have it either! i'm in full support of allowing milo to keep his channel on youtube. so that we can keep mocking her!
No one's stifling the originals right to say what it did, the content of what was said was pointed out to be the hypocritical drivel it truly was, or didn't you pay attention to what the response videos were actually saying?  So you make a habit of inventing your own reality? it certainly seems so.
Well you are a pedophile. is that true? no is ir fare of me to make sutch a claime? no. now i f i was to say ALL PEOPLE WHITH BROWN EYES ARE MIDGETS. is that fair? no i made a baseless assertion. but according to you pointing out i mad a baseless assertion is Bullying.No people are sick of being insulted constantly. where you are constantly being trested as the IlNino of the world every frekin day.well you cant call me wrong in a woman calling me wrong is bad.
There is no rape culture in the western world! May be you don't know what that word means ...
Oh how far the mighty have fallen. Not that you were ever mighty, but you were far better before than you are now.
I really don't see what is wrong with the comments on his channel. He is a self-centered little bitch who knows fuck all but arrogantly preaches to people calling them racists. Well people didn't like it. Of course many try to get under his skin. Reality is a tough place, especially for first arrivals. If he is too fragile for this, he can just fuck off. It's just a fucking Youtube account after all. While I personally try not to leave comments that are purely insulting I totally understand why people do it.
Thanks for bringing up the extreme un self aware nature of the "rationalist" youtube community.
I really enjoyed this video and I like the format. Are you a fan of Red Letter Media by any chance?  On Milo's video - I was more interested in what books or videos Milo has watched, because at times I got the impression he was repeating the opinions of others. That's totally normal for someone that age and as you say its just trying out new ideas. If I were to make a reasoned critique I'd prefer to go for the source rather than Milo.
So, is this why you came back to Youtube? To nitpick every little thing TJ says or does? Granted much of his audience are immature assholes and those comments left on Milo's video are reprehensible, but I don't recall TJ actually telling them to go do that. What his viewers do is on them, not him.
Dude, totally dig. Thanks for a great video ^.^
Wait... you don't know what it means at 1:57?  And you didn't even watch the rest of Milo's video to find out?  At 2:10, I didn't see comments telling Milo to kill zerself. I saw nasty bullying comments that sucked really bad, but not that.  Fuck it, I'm going to make a video response.
It was pretty weird so see this channel show up on my feed again.  Shit, it almost had me feeling nostalgic.  Great video dude, nice to see you again.
So honesty is 'bullying' to you- ridiculous... Milo put his/her vile opinions out in the public. If she/he can't handle honest reactions to her bigotry- too fucking bad.
Maybe it isn't YouTube, but can we please have a forum somewhere where emotionally stable adults can go?  A place where, if somebody who isn't exactly eloquent finds the ideas you are advocating to be thoroughly repulsive, they can level the worst insult they can think of in a text comment directed your way; or perhaps up-thumb an existing empty insult, without it ever rising to be considered on the same level as terrorizing a child on the schoolyard?  I mean, can we have a place where vloggers en masse agree to a basic understanding of how hyperbolic and temperamental the medium is, and given this reality, they generally know to draw the line at doxxing, stalking, or threats against their physical safety and not before?  After all, it's much easier to put on slippers than to carpet the entire world.  I hope that Milo at least comes to that understanding; and he may well have already.  Thinking back to the golden age of YouTube atheism, there wasn't exactly a high standard of discourse being maintained there either.  In fact, the load of crappy, heavily up-thumbed insults were coupled with even more DMCA abuse and false-flags.  Entire channels were dedicated to leveling low-brow insults at Christian channels or at atheist channels.  We do indeed have a few channels like that when it comes to this SJW shitstorm, but I have a hard time saying it's worse.  Though I will say that the most common response I see to legitimate criticism now is to draw attention to the insults and then use that as justification to dismiss the rest.  What that seems to do is cause a feedback loop where the same insults reverberate longer; and fixating on insults has always acted as a beacon for trolls.
Agree with the general gist of your video - at least in so far as the conclusion goes, but here are  a couple of slightly critical thoughts -  1.) You talk of bullying passing itself of as critique, or critique and bullying as separate - but isn't there a fourth category here? Critique delivered in a "bullying" manner?  Now, while most often clearly not productive, mean-spirited yet apt critique is a thing, and I would argue that if a person has gone out of their way to address the public, and furthermore in a way that is obviously inflammatory in nature, then they void the right to expect the audience to conform to ideas of polite criticism. I am not obliged to be polite to a person who has no issue, for instance, throwing me under the buss as a person by thoughtlessly applying labels that denote me as some sort of retrograde human being. Also, Milo might be, for example, working with a different operational definition of racism, but to me that just makes me wonder why he insists on using the term "racism" to begin with.  When most people clearly don't work with his definition of the term, granted the baggage the term as originally used carries, and granted the way people like Milo clearly react to others who reject their labels or arguments, I think it's readily apparent to anyone who bothers to look that this is bait and switch. It's wanting to have your cake and eat it too - to use an original definition to avoid criticism, but to retain the original definitions power and weight.  2.) You go on to make a point of how to better engage with Milo, if you are sincere in your wish to do just that - However, youtube is a public broadcasting format where communication happens in several different directions, not just limited to the viewer and the content creator of the specific video the viewer happens to be watching and wanting to comment on. Criticism does not have to be made to address Milo specifically, and the critic might not have any interest in addressing Milo specifically.  3.) "Everyone is dehumanizing him and encouraging him to kill himself" - Out of almost 120K views only 10K comments or so exist on the page, with only about 25K ratings either way, meaning that the 90K or so of viewers left neither comment nor rating on the video.  Here are some top rated comments that do neither of the above : nudle5 says : Imagine what you'll think of yourself when you watch this in a few years. A hint: Shame. You're a fucking racist and an idiot. Fuck you. 115 likes Do It With Dan says : This is cancer 635 likes Tyler B says : You know, I'm trans, and I think this shit is ridiculous. You constantly  contradict yourself, you insult people while demanding respect, and  your black and white views are akin to that of a truly racist or  transphobic/homophobic person. Meh.  Non of these comments are nice, and non of them are constructive criticism. That being said, non of them encourage Milo to kill himself or dehumanize him either.  Looking through the comments there are obviously lots of hateful and bigoted comments there and for the people who left them there is no excuse. That does however in no way legitimize Milo's points, or his (and others like him, and their), failure to recognize or address actual criticism which, while certainly smaller in number, will exist within the cesspool of third-rate bullshit comments. This to me, begs the question why its even brought up to begin with?   4.) Feminists etc. needing safe-spaces : That's a bullshit argument and you know it. If I take to a public platform throwing out blanket statements about how blacks are criminals and/or sub-human or whatever else takes my fancy, only to then retreat into a safe-space afterwards to avoid the inevitably shit-storm that follows, that does not somehow validate my assumed need for a safe-space prior to that happening.  Now, does Milo deserve transphobic bigotry thrown his way for having said clearly moronic and arguably bigoted things himself? No, of course not. Two wrongs do not a right make. That being said, if you expect to be able to condescend to people and act like a tool on a public platform without backlash that makes you feel uncomfortable, then you are an entitled douche. Furthermore, people are not calling the "SJW" crowd crybabies for running to safe-spaces when they get cyber-mobbed by belligerent trolls, they are calling them crybabies (to whatever extent they are) for using the trolls as a shield to avoid having to face the actual criticism that comes from the more reasonable people in the fold, or for blowing up largely innocuous out of proportion.  5.) Equating a "circle-jerk" happening on an open-forum with a moderated "safe-space" is disingenuous as all hell. Do you really fail to see the distinction between a space where people are being denied opportunity to speak through non-transparent moderation, and a space where anyone can say whatever they want but that happens to have a majority group of participants sharing the same views?  6.) Most people don't enjoy being publicly trash-talked ("abuse" is a strong word for this, meh thinks) by thousands of people - however, when you go unto a public platform that is being used by millions and millions of people and then talk condescendingly and judgementally about a demographic that makes up a large number of the total user-base, then you will get blow-back. Maybe people who don't want to get trash-talked should spend some more time considering the things they say and the way in which they say them? Maybe they should privatize their format more?  7.) Why do you believe that the people leaving comments on these videos are nerds? The internet, and youtube in particular is widely used to the point that even your [insert living elderly relative] is probably on it right now looking at funny cat videos. Many of the mean comments might very well be the product of the same jock dude-bro bully assholes that bullied nerds back in high school.  Good day.
youtube has missed you
good shit, man. good shit. good to have you back.
I like this video :)
Nice to see you around again, Nick. Keep up the good work!
Holy shit, I just realized how much I missed seeing your videos and listening to your point of view. The production value has gone up considerably.
"Exploring new ideas".  Sure they are!
If you put stupid ideas out on a public platform like YouTube and you get criticism for those stupid ideas don't cry about. Milo video was fucking retarded.
IT'S LIKE YOU'RE READING MY MIND HNNNGYESSS Don't ever stop. I'm going to log into my other account just so I can like this video twice.
While I typically find myself in intellectual agreement with the anti-sjw types, I am also getting sick of how their content is mostly bullying. Having said that, I'm also deeply sick of how the pro-sjw content is mostly bullying-for-your-own-good-with-a-smile. Milo's video fits that genre pretty perfectly, and I find that I have a lot of trouble summoning up sympathy for those content creators when they gets treated badly. I find the abuse of power over others to be one of the worst things a person can do, and Milo - coming from a position within the social push for sjw ideology - is just as guilty of that as TJ if not more so. Ideally, I would feel bad for abusers who get abused in turn, but... I just can't. I've tried. I have no idea how this has happened to me, especially since I don't have your alcohol budget.
Slight problem, none of these high rated comments where objectively transphobic. I am circumspect about claims of transphobia, racism, misogyny. When all that's being said is nasty comments towards someone who might be fit in to a group who could possibly be affected by such things.  I don't thinks it's misogyny to call a woman a bad name. I don't think it's racism to call a black person a bad name. I don't think it's transphobia to call a trans person a bad name. Now if you called a woman/black person/trans person a name relating to this aspect of who they are, then maybe, it might be hate speech.  We are getting vey close to a point where merely critiquing or even insulting someone who's part of a protected group, is a hate crime. When the motivation for doing so might have nothing to do with bigotry.   PS A good rule of thumb to avoid such negativity, would not be to go around calling people transphobic &/or racist.   PPS we tried talking to these people with extreme beliefs, it got us nowhere.
Look here Mr. White Knight Self-Righteous Sack of Shit, You are fucking scum. I've been attacked, I've been jumped, I've been disowned by friends and family alike, I've had at a lot of shit happen to me that is far worse than any Youtube comment or stupid fucking video could ever be. People need to toughen the fuck up, not be coddled, pandered to, and ultimately infantilized.
No, no, no and seriously fuck you. Straight through the urethra. With a fucking blowtorch.  This transgender don't not want safe spaces or any other special treatment or coddling.  I want to be treated as an equal, no lesser, no greater.
hello handsome
I think that you may have found yourself a Niche Nyk.
The Rush Limbaugh comparison is quite accurate.  Or a Michael Moore at his most manic.  Sadly, 'Bread and Circuses' bring audiences, no matter who's selling them. Also sad, I'm guessing 'Goodbye Horses' probably would have gotten the video flagged.
This is fantastic Nik, congrats!
I really enjoyed this video, it maintains the serious topics of your older videos but definitely incorporates humor and a sense of levity that your earlier videos didn't have. Now I personally enjoyed watching a half hour video breaking down the landscape of metaethics, but then again I also hate fun. Hope to see more videos!
Missed your videos, thanks for coming back.
cross dressing is degenerate
Nykytyne's affinity for booze: it's comforting to see that some things remain constant.
You make sense, and lots of it. You're at two and 'oh' this season, let's see if you can get the hat-trick.
Gratex is doing it too, go girls
Wait...how exactly having more people in one side of an argument means they are in a safe space. The number of people on one side or the other has zero to do with being in a safe space unless your definition of safe space means comfort in numbers. A safe space in this context would mean NOT being able to hear criticism something that all the anti-sjws channels do not do (block comments). You can t argue that because people like TJ have many people who agree that its a safe space to argue. WTF
Damn Nick, this comeback kills all others.  I feel like a sad pretender compared to you.
This doesn't seem to me anything new only the target has changed. Back in the day it was creationists and theists, now it's feminists and SJW's. The pwnage culture hasn't changed. People like thunderfoot and TJ have always been bullies, it's just that back in the day we agreed with their choice of target.  Although I actually agree with you about TJ in that underneath he is or could be a much more decent guy than the persona he puts out there. I remember back in the day when I was still subscribed to him I used to find his more earnest videos on his private channel quite thoughtful. But he has been pulled down by his subscriber base and the constant demand for the vitriol towards feminism.  As someone who finds himself somewhere in the middle on these issues, sympathizing both with the social justice crowd and with the many criticisms of them, it has been extremely frustrating to see most people being driven to the extremes in the past couple of years.
you made some very good points in this video and i'm really enjoying your new Frank N. Furter/buffalo bill image. however i do think the word "bullying" in a misnomer, what milo is having to deal with is more like persecution.
I don't see how making a video that people like and up-vote, constitutes a safe space or "circle jerk." A "safe space" is somewhere you can go to be with like minded people who don't judge you for having an unpopular opinion... like a clan meeting.   You know dude, you were part of a community that grew on the backs of creationist, and not tear was shed by you or anyone else when they were ruthlessly mocked, and a 90 percent dislike ratio smelt like victory. I'm sure there's some place else she can go to hate different people, so good riddance.
Thanks for this video. It was definitely very well made and is super important. I know lots of YouTubers who are upset by the shift of video responses from giving constructive criticisms and critiques to flat out bullying. And for calling some of them bullies, I'll probably get people who tell me I'm too sensitive or whatever. It's nice to see you making these points because you'd probably get less hate than if a social justice activist stood up against this issue. Don't worry I won't retreat from YouTube just because of this shit storm. Gotta prove the haters wrong, which is why I've chosen not to disable comments.
This comeback of yours is absolutely terrific.
This is the first video I've liked from the atheist community of YouTube in about 3 years.
Great having you back, but I feel your message could have been delivered a bit tighter.
This one is really great, critical analysis interspersed with humour. Must have taken a lot of work. :)
What do you think of Dave Rubin?
You made me re think this whole issue; Thanks.
Another good video.  The new style is really effective, balancing opinion, and self-deprecation in a way that deflects knee-jerk tribalism (mostly).  The massive disparity in influence between Milo and some of her 'critics', particularly when combined with the predictable actions of the subscribers of those critics, is so clearly a mechanism for bullying that I don't know how anyone can avoid seeing it.
I cannot begin to tell you how immensely cathartic this video is. I watched in disgust as the community I once aligned myself with so many years ago slowly turn into a band of angry, cruel bullies. I've spoken out against it time and time again in attempts to stem the tide, but to no avail. Nowadays, I just avoid most of it all together, and stumbled on your video only by chance.  Again, thank you for this. We need more rational, compassionate people like you speaking out.
We live in an age where we access to the biggest repository of amassed knowledge in history, that's simultaneously the best communication device in history. Ironically, people are (at minimum) as isolated and as prone to confirmation bias as ever. The truth is, modern technology can't shed us of our monkey brains, and most people lack the self-awareness to either prevent from succumbing to it, or fall back after the fact, upon recognizing they have. I'm not perfect, I've suffered the same failings myself. But this reply is far too wordy than it needs to be anyway.  In short, all groups of people are stupid, and only want to hear the shit that confirms what they already believe. And then they congregate and attack everyone else, since everyone except their own clan are evil, stupid assholes.
I'm disappointed by a lack of nuance and overall accuracy and a tendency to draw arbitrary distinctions in your recent videos, and have to wonder why you would allow for that. Perhaps it is exactly like you say and you relish tormenting yourself, so you forgo accuracy in favour of that extra bit of polarizing statements. You make good and needed points, but the above is a serious detraction from that and I thought you held yourself to higher standards. Yeah, TJ should perhaps know better. We probably all should, and that includes you.
Milo's video doesn't have any arguments. It has insults and generalizations. One's she admittedly "learned" from admitted black supremacists.   You really are a little pathetic bitch.... jfc  Milo does not have a "gender identity". Milo is a female. There is not one single tribute that indicates "male". All signs point to female for her. She's also attracted to men.... She's what I call a "special snowfake". Which is worse than be a special snowflake.  she's the worst kind of hanger-on wanna be victims I've ever witnessed. And your white-knighting for her is fucking pathetic. I challenge you to a man fight. The winner leaves youtube forever.
There have been more measured responses that weren't bullying in nature. Peach's video is a good example.
You wanna know why SJW vids and anti-SJW vids have such starkly contrasting like-to-dislike ratios?  The same reason good shows stay on air for years. The same reason garbage is quickly canceled.  Which group of people is in a safe space? The many SJW's who don't allow ratings and comments. Now, find me an anti-SJW who does that.  The internet is a fucking safe-space and wanting to make it one is as fucking Orwellian is it gets. Congrats. You've got internalized hatred of freedom.
How terribly they are treated?  Go fucking look at Blaire White's channel. Go look at legitimate trans-people's channels. They get TONS of support. Milo gets what she get's because she is a deluded and ignorant moron who spouts hatred disguised as "political correctness" and couched in this "newspeak" approved by some invisible SJW council, that most likely resides somewhere on Tumblr.
It's pretty simple actually. The two main reasons for why the response is so overwhelmingly negative is that a) people have no patience, and Milo started out with strong opinions that generalize a large group of people. Maybe if MIlo wasn't that opinionated, the response would be just a little more accommodating. b) this is the internet (yes, ideally we'd be be sophisticated enough culturally to recognize that even interactions through an interface are still interactions with real people on both sides, but the world is not ideal). Gotta say I was tempted to give your video a downvote too right in the beginning for what appears to be outright trolling, when you speak of YouTube as if it is this one, whole community with shared values. There is no *one* "YouTube community". Am at around 2.5min into the video now and at least at this point it's gotten reasonable enough. Opinion is still out though, pending the remaining 6minutes.
Milo's points.... debatable?   HAHAHAHAAA I can't take your pseudo-itellectulism seriously.  Milo is a deluded female, raised in an upper-class 2 parent home. She has no real problems so after being partially raised by Tumblr she concocted an idea that she is somehow a man.... because reasons.  This soon to be legal adult is a fucking joke and should be mocked and derided. She's an arrogant fuckwad, who can't even pronounce 1/3 of words she says properly and has "learned" her ideology from 2 admitted black supremacists.  Her whole act is unacceptable and an insult to people who are ACTUALLY transitioning.
"Bullying"  lol
Someone said something that a lot of people found highly offensive, so they publicly shamed the offender, thereby encouraging large groups to voice their ire. So, who or what determines when this methodology is considered social justice or when it's considered bullying, because I've seen such behavior labeled as both.
I've noticed that these sort of videos can't just debunk a video they think is wrong. They have to DESTROY it. "<person> DESTROYS emotional liberal", "Dumb feminist gets OWNED". Some say that if SJWs think merits of their argument is sound they shouldn't try and censor opposing ideas. On the flip side if anti-SJW's think the merits of their arguments is sound they shouldn't need to resort to name calling or mocking.   Even if a lot of popular anti-SJW don't actively bully or harass their opponents, the way they go about their arguments/responses is obviously causing their audience to become hostile and sometimes abusive. I'm not saying they should police themselves or take away their "free speech". But if I had a 100,000+ size audience, I would think twice about how I'm coming across to them.  I even follow some of these anti-SJW channels. But I'm not liking what it's becoming/has become. There is a difference between criticising and mocking, but for many it's starting to blur into one.
you need to watch more makeup tutorials and less TJ vids
Excellence, as always. Nuance is needed on youtube, hell, everywhere these days.
New hypersensitivity speech in 2016. Christians in America "Help we are being opressed". Transgendered "Were being bullied". Flat earthers "We are being victims of hatespeech".  Whenever there is a discussion with a christian and a non-believer the christian can claim being opressed.  Its amazing how some groups can always be the victims of bullying and its very seldom the atheists who claim this, one of the most hated groups in america.
A "compassionate and measured retort" is something I feel I have yet to see more than a couple of in my entire existence as a regular viewer of youtube videos
I gotta up my game!
Nick, for some reason, all I can think about now is Buffalo Bill. You should change the name for the channel to Necromancer Nick.
You're on some next level of gone with that Anita throne at 7:44.  I love it! I damn near lost my socks laughing!
We need a higher quality of atheist youtuber than Amazing Atheist and Jaclyn Glenn.
While I agree the bullying is counterproductive and I'm completely against those comments, what else would you expect if you call everybody a racist, transphobic bigoted individual but to encourage that behavior against you? you are just giving them your buttons and antagonizing them.   This is a backlash to all the rhetoric  SJW movements have spewed, why is it that it is ok for these sites to label everyone right of them as hateful? And yeah intellectualism is in the toiled these days, TL;DR is he one most resistant to this but even he has slipped a few times. Sargon has tried to reach to them but he's not the best at debates and most professional feminists are perfectly trained fallacy-spewing individuals and he just can't keep up with them.  And again, whilst I agree with you that they should not attack him like that and I applaud you for trying to stop this mentality from spreading, this is the internet we know mob mentality runs amok, the same mentality that runs in SJWs is just applied in reverse. Do I have to remind you that SJWs started these neo-witch hunts? have you read "So you've been publicly shamed"[1]? or anything by Freethought Blogs? or anything Feministing, Jazebel, Salon, the lies about Tim Hunt, Gamergate coverage, Donglegate…  My point is not to condone the abuse. Both sides have had enough of that. But only to say that this is a reaction to victim and shaming culture and his broad categorization as hateful of anyone who doesn't believe exactly as he does. A not measured one to be sure but a reaction nonetheless.  [1] http://www.amazon.com/So-Youve-Been-Publicly-Shamed
I like what you're trying to do but then make weird generalizations or claims with no backing o_O You're going to have to have a really high ground to be able to bring some sense in to the mess everything has got to, but you seem to be diving in to this mess yourself from a different end.
It definitely has tipped over into bullying. I think Milo is also a victim of the incessant leftist anti-reason that he's been fed. Milo is perfectly comfortable to label opponents as all the ...ists. He probably feels it's morally correct to denigrate all who do not share his beliefs. So it was inevitable the legion of shitlords would lite on him. I suspect the SJW leaders set people like Milo up. They know they're going to get a reaction that will then provide them the evidence to say, "SEE, trans-phobia, racism, blah blah - see why we need safe spaces now?" But I think the proof that the people abusing him are not doing it because of trans-phobia is that they don't abuse other trans people who do not spout SJW rhetoric.
Oh, calm down. A lot of SJW are making stupid claims while being outright hateful towards groups like men, straight people and white people. That's why people get annoyed. And let's not act like most people who post in YouTube comments are usually serious when they tell someone to kill themselves. They just say stupid shit for attention and get rated to the top because that's how the YT comment ranking algorithm works now.  A lot of people including Sargon have repeatedly reached out to SJWs to hear them out and have had respectable debates with them. The Amazing Atheist is and always has been a circle jerk comedy channel so acting like he is some how representative of the community is ridiculous..  I remember some of the edgy atheist shit you put on YouTube mocking Christians a few years back, I get that you might have changed, but perhaps you could be less judgemental. I agree with you that it's not ideal when a grown YouTuber with a huge audience goes after a teenager, but honestly if a teenager wants to put stupid stuff up online they shouldn't be surprised if someone calls them out for it.
remember that time you kidnapped a eucharist
I'm liking the new style.
I guess bullying, errr.. I mean criticizing other-kin got boring fast.
Great to see you're back!
Was youtube easier to watch in 2008, or was I just ignorant?
I kind of take comfort in the fact that the best anti-feminists can do is down-vote videos.  It leaves me feeling pretty secure that my SJW Agenda will succeed in taking over the world since, well, you know, SJWs do more than worship at the shrine of meaningless social media data.
how the fuck can anyone with the user name "too Long didnt read" be seen as someone you should listen to, the name points out he didnt bother hear the argument
