Why is nobody mentioning your golden pipes, girl??? You can fucking SING!!! Edit: Rock the fuck on, Gold Dust Woman
Anyone got a link to the lyrics for the "Degenerate Things" song? I want to sing it at parties
You know that Paglia is a self-proclaimed transexual right? She does so without being self-hating. Read Sexual Personae.
16:11 this asmr sequence made me realize no one needs the golden one to fulfill the role of youtube's viking beefcake bench-pressing panty-dropping blue eyed hero when fredsvoice is right there
Marry me Jesus Christ!!!! I love you ya god like gorgeous lady!!!
I'm gay but... 1:46. Damn.  Maybe i'm straight.
14:20 Everyone, please stand for our national anthem.
Fascists are right on this one
This dude really has a crush on the golden one lol
I want a none facist version of the Golden One :C... No... I want to go further. I want an anti-facism version of The Golden One (ò~ó)
“In a perfect world created by me, I’d make sure there’s plenty of beefy studs around so don’t you worry about that.” Fuck You are so hilarious!
More more more more! I want people to take one look at my lifestyle and think "Oh. That's why nobody would ever really want to live forever. 50 years of that and I'd be puking from my eyes."
I feel like I'd enjoy your videos if you addressed the topic of the video and your views on it without as much padding
The drinking and burping at the screen starting around 10 minutes in is one of the best things I have ever seen online.  Glorious!
eww.
God the song had me in fits
YES YES I LOVE YOU SO MUCH IM AN ALCOHOLIC TOO BUT NOBODY SHOULD DRINK AND DRIVE YOU ROCK
"Misegination would lead to chaos." If only the things the nazis thought were true, if only I could achieve my anarchist dreams of toppling the state just by having sex with black men. I'm going to have sex with black men and attempt to topple the state anyway but it would be nice if I could kill two birds with one stone, you know
"Abigail what is your DAMAGE"
Informative, educational, and creative. Why am I finding this just now??  Also, I'd pay to see you in concert.
Degenerates don't have a right to exist. Sooner or later society will realize this.
Candle: [ *falls over* ] *_Could it be...the jews?!?_*
well i had no idea decadent meant anything to do with decay. i've been using decadent only as a positive adjective this whole time. oops
Until I watched this video, the only times I'd heard the term "decadent" were always in reference to food...
Love you Stevie
The Doctor is giving me strong Entrapta vibes and I love it
7:09 This is like a soccer game between the two soccer teams of my city.
Yeah sure but what word should I use to insult furries?
Grow up, you disgusting weirdo
That transition from golden twink to Mommy Issues is iconic
The Golden One is my favorite Jojo villain.
That song tho
What went wrong in your childhood...?
Fag
I adore you in every single way ❤️
I seriously miss these characters and her music! AND KING COBRA! Bring it back!
Golden God Jackie denardo's theme song
Thought I'd take a shot at reworking the degeneracy song   Condoms & Orgies and Mass immigration Malt Liquor 40’s and Miscegenation  Boys with Clit piercings and Girls with Cock Rings  These are my favourite degenerate things   Absinthe and Coffee and Bitchy Sarcasm  HRT crying and fruitless orgasm  Anti-Fa Furries and NB drag kings  These are my favourite degenerate things   Boys in Black Dresses all with rainbow Sashes  Cheap Legal Weed and the Rule of the masses  The State works for us not the oligarchy  These are my favourite degenerate things   When the Frogs Fight  When the Trump tweets When I'm feeling sad I think of my favourite degenerate things And then I don't feel so bad
How the fuck did I miss this video, I'm just discovering it
Social conservatism is slave morality.
While you were studying Nietzsche, I studied the blade
ALAN TURING!!! YES THEY DO CRACK NAZI CODES!!!
Dacadance... basicly puberty...?
Do people actually think these are legit points? I just see a dude dressed like a lady being smug for 23 minutes
Y are angry white nazis even worried to become "a minority" We alrdy are and they won't be alive to see Muslims or blacks in "white countries"
We need anime adaptation for ContraPoints characters.
O que é isso e como cheguei até aqui
That song tho 🤣
I think Abigail needs TERF bangs in the future.
Wait, wait, wait, wait.  Going to the store and getting some wine.
Can cishet people be queer if they are poly/kinky/degenerate in some way?
What would you say to someone who wasn’t racist who called you a degenerate because they thought your focus on drinking and breaking down social norms would lead to a kind of society which was filled with meaningless and resulted in humans failing to reach their potential due to giving overly to their baser urges?
Inside the mind of contra
That newspaper wuz just written by some homopubeic rando from the 70s I have never met a Bigoted commie.
You are the very definition of degenerate. Self obsessed, desperately seeking attention, trying to justify to yourself your wrong lifestyle. You couldn't survive on your own and without civilization. Weak and pathetic.
I describe people who are into non con as degenerate - zoophiles, pedophiles, and other forms of rapists.  What you do with a consenting adult human is a-ok with me.   Maybe I need a new term to seperate myself from nazis, but "gross" isnt bad enough. Suggestions?
A man and a woman, chilling in a bath of swedish lakewater and pure absinthe, five feet apart because they're not straight.
god, i can not get enough of this channel (but in my humble opinion, considering this episode had the golden one in it, there were not NEARLY enough skyrim references.)
Bath bombs are still a thing?
Omg, please please make a full length music video of "My Favorite Degenerate Things". T.T
This is quite gay
sexually objectifying men is a good thing
you need to censor you nipples
I fucking hate Camilia Pagilia.
Natalie is the only person to ever give me ASMR triggers :D
One of my favorite things  CONTRAPOINTS 🖤🖤🖤
Peak degeneracy
Didn't mention Degeneration X once. Smdh
14:15 15:25
I'm curious to know where can I find the interview of Camille Paglia?
I'd rather go with my hoes to hell that with believers to heaven (C)
I have a STRONG need for  a full "My favourite degenerate things" song.
14:20 song starts 15:27 song continues
Guess I'm a goddamn degenerate now 😂
Omg that was exactly what I needed tonight. Thankyou
Solid piano playing. :) Cheers.
ACTUALLY Nietzsche was NOT advocating for master morality. This is one of the most common misconceptions about his philosophy. Master and slave morality both need to be overcome in order to find an entirely new and different foundation for our ethical judgements.
Holy shit I was actually taught that the emperors' decadence leaving the empire vulnerable thing was true
Communists "communists"
12:09 How much edgy atheist incel fashion intersects with grunge lesbian/queer fashion disturbs me intensely  (I am pretty sure I have worn this exact ensemble on multiple occasions but imho I rocked it harder than your mom last night)
Unfortunately friends pleasure wont last , do you think slowly dying , aging , will be pleasurable ? i dont think it will be, in fact i know not. However honor , integrity , discipline , sacrifice can move humanity to ever greater heights until eventually we become all the adjectives we use for god . Ghost in the Shell and  Terence Mckenna elaborate on this very eloquently , magic is real and it is only a matter of time before we become golden immortal gods. (thanks to moral , hardworking people, not degenerates)  We will create some sort of thing that will for all intensive purposes end time. So instead of trying to dull the pain of existence with all the varieties of pleasure and hedonism , maybe we can vindicate our uncomfortable situation and honor all of the great selfless people who worked so hard to enlighten us and empower us with technology by keeping that alchemical tradition going. In other words i think you'll feel a lot better dying and knowing you help moved humanity towards a better future , in contrast to dying and knowing you cut your penis off , did a lot of coke and fucked a lot of people who just wanted to use you.
ariana grande has left the chat
I would swim through a lake full of water to make Ben Shapiro watch this video.
Quality content. Rock on!
Ew. Fucking gross tranny
Wait, are those the parenthesis used by anti-Semites to mark who's jewish around "Patrons?" Nice
The irony is that Nietzsche was exactly the person his writings condemned. He was basically an incel of his time who got rejected by multiple women, had a failed writing career, was seen as unattractive by most, and was socially awkward. On top of all that, he suffered from a mental breakdown because of all this and died.
I burped at the same time as you. Are we friends now?
"These are my favorite degenerate things" should be on the radio like 24/7 :)
My blood is... BOILING!!! The penile blood, obviously....
"riley. j. dennis.... why did you destroy ancient rome" maybe it's because this is my fourth time rewatching or because it's almost 5am and im on 0 hours of sleep but i just DIED
Girl you’re a good singer!
I keep getting the urge to pronounce "miscegenation" as "mixegenation".
I don't think it's working.
Sing it with us all... These are our favorite degenerate things!!!!
Rewatching this, I ended up looking up "Gold Dust Woman" as I hadn't heard the original. I like Natalie's version way better than Fleetwood Mac's. Natalie kicks ass and is good at music. That is all.
Una verdad tras otra. Un despertar para el adormilado. Sos grande mujer. Bendiciones, que nadie logre pararte jamás.
16:17  It kinda looks like you were blaming the Jews for the glass falling over.
I mean if the master races seed is easily overwritten then they obviously ain't good enough for the market place
0:32 I so knew it was going the be the golden one 😂
The only things in life that are degenerate: quantum states
When I first read about Nietzche's philosophy he seemed like a cunt. I think this is the first time I've ever seen anyone agree with me. Like seriously, why is he so revered?
This dude is mildly entertaining
How did “These are my favorite degenerate things” not get as popular as 7 rings
Oh no, the dilution of blood will reduce our wizardry!  Those damned mudbloods!         (I realize that I'm mocking historical writings by referencing contemporary fiction writen in imitation of their exact kind of insanity)
Hello fellow degenerates
I love you so fucking much
Low effort tranny trying to play edgy degenerate, this joke tells itself.
Great rendition of "Gold Dust Woman" at the end.
12:11 G-d, as much as I like you ContraPoints and agree with you, but I must defend Nietzsche because he really was a good guy. He didn’t value strong people over weak people, in fact, he believed that good people were gentle towards the weak. What Nietzsche did tell us was to listen to ourselves and work for what we want.  You yourself practiced this. You, Natalie, was born a male, but was jealous of women, something you wanted to be. Through a long, personal journey, you realized that you wanted to be a woman, so you became one through surgery. Through taking that surgery, you practiced Nietzschean philosophy.   I agree with the rest of this video, other than 15:19, where you encouraged your audience to care more about the immediate pleasures of drunkenness than the future, but other than that, good video Natalie.
You really ought to cover Fleetwood Mac songs in the credits all the fucking time. Jussayin. Stevie is the greatest muse ever.
Oh yes, those foppish ancient Greek degenerates with their effeminate ways. Achilles? Alexander the Great? Total wimps.
Also you're so weird XD
That music XD
Literally just watching the end on a loop, it's a phenomenal rendition
Natalie, i have a question about your definition of fascism (yes i know that’s in a different video...) the racial element, the völkisch elements: are you including that as part of a definition of fascism throughout history or as a descriptive definition of fascism today? love your channel, btw. great stuff girl! xx
"Wanna get in the tub?" That made me laugh a lot. Sounds so innocent and childish.  George Soros lol.
16:00 if someone walked in on me watching porn it'd at least be easier to explain
Ugh that ending is perfect, as always
The golden one is disgusting
https://dirkdeklein.files.wordpress.com/2018/06/auschwitz1.jpg?w=750
I've never heard anyone play Gold Dust Woman like that, that was phenomenal.
did she sing a seven rings parody in 2017??? im so confused
So where is the line drawn in degeneracy? Pedophillia? Because the Left and the media has painting pedophiles as oppressed victims who can't live up to societal standards.... Rather than what they really are evil monsters and potential rapists who be pushed to the fringes of society. If you're in the LGBT and you see pedophiles trying to infiltrate your community you need to do something about it otherwise people will think you're complicid with it. Along with disgusting shit like Zoophilia, Necrophillia and Incest.
Rome was destroyed by Christianity, not the "queers" lol <----This is a prime example of hasty generalization, sorry folks, guilty as charged :) There are a ton of reasons why Rome fell and what I stated was only one thing in a long laundry list of things that destroyed the empire. :)
A video on Degeneracy??? *Que Fallout: New Vegas Reference* *Something something true to ceaser*
Am I gay if I find femme Contra kinda hot
I just love your Kabarett, Natalie! You should learn German and come perform live here. You'll sell out!
natalie PLEAAAASE make an asmr vid holy shit
What do the strawberries symbolize?
FOUCAULT!!!
omg, did i just see Theophile Gautier's picture (among the  'degenerates")?  i may have to go cry a little bit now......
I think I REALLY need a video with just that song to troll the shit out of my orthodox friend with..lol
Natalie is a good piano player
Every time i see this channel i feel like im watching a rocky horror show spoof. This person is eerie looking
A part of my soul died when Camille was talking about Roman statues. It's bad enough she's a proto-terf, but does she have to be so goddamn ignorant about antiquity Mediterranean art?? My college professors weep.
@contrapoints you gotta read “Only the Real, the True, the Masculine Held it’s Value” it is a fascinating paper on Ernst Rohm and Nazi conception and persecution of homosexuality. It essentially makes the same argument, that as long as Rohm was only homosexual, but didn’t practice queerness he was acceptable, and if the need to consolidate power hadn’t been so strong, he may have continued to be acceptable so long as he went with the Nazi program.
18:40 this kinda pissed me off. as a communist (marxist-leninist) i say that's just pure bullshit, but then again i don't see how americans should know a thing about communism and socialism. their nation is founded on imperialism and is the propeller of capitalism and consumerism across the globe. on a better note, love u contra
<3<3<3
11:29 I know it’s a joke but hasn’t poor Riley been shat on enough already?
A King Cobra belch is literally the perfect response to the kind of cliffnotes bullshit intellectualism that inevitably follows the phrase "you can see in history..."  Yeah. Cause a trained historian has ever uttered that phrase. JFC
I love your musical performances!!!! I'm also a huge fan of "Gold Dust Woman" - Fleetwood Mac... :-)
If you value doing what feels right and pursuing your own pleasure then you're decidedly hard to control by systems who's main weapon is shame 🤔🤔
Move to Africa and/or to Muslim country and nag them. Good luck!
I have two white kids and I'm bisexual. So am I degenerate or not?
I just looked up the golden one's instagram profile (possibly looking for that nsfw photo..) and I see he has a daughter now... Norse gods have mercy on her...
How does this video relate to Foucault?
What were your academic sources for this video?
I'm a classic liberal, in other words that's almost same as being right wing in 2019...  I'm for full freedom of speech, meaning I despise SJWs, I don't subscribe to the ideology of 'white men' being evil, I think we're fucking awesome and I believe in personal responsibility (it's your own faul most of the same not societies).  That all being said, to me freedom is of the utmost importance, hence why both the lefties and the righties don't understand liberals like me. I want you to be able to do whatever you like and I want to be allowed to say whatever I like even if it triggers weak people and yes I should be allowed to stay that SJWs are weak people fundamentally.
"And that's why we never bathe with fascists." Thanks, Natalie, lesson learnt.
Oh no, the Golden One has deleted his comment on this(?)! It was truly a beautiful love letter (sorta).
If contrapoints released a fleetwood mac cover album I'd buy it twice
Hot Mama Contrapoints, you have really influenced some of my shitty opinions into not shitty ones. I have to say, the reverb around 20 :93 makes me pre (perhaps a bit too much). Honestly lady u ballin hard, you fight the good fight, fuck yeah dude. Also I love how you stage everything.  I felt obligated to give my thanks. (Vice led me here I must say, it makes sense, you're aspirations as an orator are ambitious, distinctive, and god damn so sensible to , I would honestly say, somewhat innocently, misled people)  Also pour milk on me staunch man titties, robust but resilient. I will admit, I am quite the degenerate. Bless.
I love your vaporwave influences.
I literally giggled with joy at the song beginning at 14:19 and then the ASMR portion afterward. :D
So I'm the only one rewatching 1:39? K
You do not even present counter arguments.  Just quote your opponents and claim they are wrong.  We have all the signs of a dying society.  To live in 2019 and still not recognise this means you must have a very low iq anyway and will perish on the day of the rope.
Aww, I was hoping you'd mention the "Degenerate Art" exhibit from the 30's.
This just might be my Favorite contrapoints video, veva la Queer Degeneracy.
This guy hasn't heard of nice guy national socialism.
"Riley J Dennis...why did you destroy ancient Rome?"
Rome collapsed inter alia because of high promiscuity, there were other things like general decrease in hygiene, the rats became the city cleaning services at that time. There are general rule - more promiscuous culture - less children are to be born. Combine it with spreading diseases(rats and plenty of sexual partners) and you get abrupt decrease in population - thus decrease in potential army etc. The so called barbarians kept themselves more "in order" then, so their number increased, and they came for agregated wealth stored in Rome, destroying it as a side effect. It's very straightforward, and it's mostly about which nation breeds, and which doesn't. Polish people were part of 3 empires for 123 years, not having their own state, but when they almost tripled their number in about 90 years since 1811-1900 A.D., there were no force to prevent them from having their own prosperous state. Having in regard these information -  One can say, you are in the decadence when number of your people is decreasing, promiscuity contributes to it.
AS A BARTENDER, in the french quarter who recently destroyed a bottle of Vieux Carre (Translation: The old square. A nickname for the french quarter) I would like to help my friend CP as she has helped me. So, when imbibing with absinthe in a traditional fashion one is simply making themselves a cocktail ie. chilling, diluting & sweetening. That being the case, one would first pour about 2oz. of the absinthe into their glass. the next step is where you place the sugar over the glass via the slotted spoon. From there the process becomes expensive because what you would now do is slowly drip ice cold water over the sugar cube and the best way to do this is with an absinthe drip, a large expensive glass container with a built in faucet. You fill said container with ice water and place the glass under it's faucet and turn it to a med slow drip. What happens is the water dissolves the sugar, sweetening the drink as well as chilling & diluting. The cold water creates a chemical reaction and the clear green liquid becomes foggy & milky. That change is called the green fairy and you can now turn off the faucet. The whole process should take about a minute. To finish, stir the spirit, taste your work and if you would like it sweeter or more diluted you may add more sugar or water. Here is a link to a absinthe drip, for more questions on how to get sloshed with a lil panache feel free to reach out.     https://www.absinthes.com/en/absinthe-fountain-tube-4-taps-p170?age_gateway=true&gclid=CjwKCAjw1dzkBRBWEiwAROVDLHZKuY5sngN26RQ-PrLuDFWkyUkiKpYu-OFAuQ8meMBb7xH5DWUqQBoCxyIQAvD_BwE
"And that's why we never bathe with fascists." <-- Favorite quote this week 😎  (( Also, the Romans needed to be destroyed. They were jerks. :v ))  (( Also also: 'These Are My Favorite Degenerate Things'....I *need* this cover omg. Such joy! ✨ω✨ ))
*(((Patrons)))*
Ms Nicks would be proud. Excellent rendition madam.
1:14 I choked because I couldn't tell if she said chaste or chased
I dont think muslims will allow this, when muslims start running the show in europe. Peace be upon you.
This made me cry. You're really lovely.
dear lord i have such a crush on you
You should always sing over the credits
14:20 I'm sister sophia in the sound of music at my school and that's me at rehearsal lmfaooo
Omg was Paglia on coke in that video
te amo <3
It's strange watching your channel as a lesbian, I find you increasingly attractive but if I see your old videos its like seeing a brother of yours
Awesome video and ending with Gold Dust Woman - perfect.
Holy fuck that was good
Madam you are thought provoking and hilarious. Although i dislike your rejection of Nietzsche, i forgive you because your rendition of gold dust woman was so ass kicking. Rock on indeed.
I just hope you know I'm obsessed with you. I think you are really awesome. You are very intelligent!
So the ancient Greek high point was the Archaic period and they "declined" into the Classical Period? Great video. Most people suck. You do not.
When she showed the picture of Oscar Wilde I finally understood why people say she’s the Oscar Wilde of YouTube. They’re very much like each other and definitely have a similar appearance.
I honestly just want an album of all the songs Contra has covered/parodied. She has a great voice and lit piano skills.
14:20 omg did contrapoints just fucking sing '7 rings' ,it hasn't even released yet in 2017!! ???? did ariana grande take inspiration from this ???? [ shoutout to 'my favorite things']
14:20 contrapoints came before Ariana lmao
Fascists are fucking hot what do
"the EXACT same dingbats, yes" lmao the way she said that
interesting - are mgtows generally considered degenerate?
As a history student, pseduo history makes me very very angry because stories from the past are powerful and lying about it has very dangerous consequences
The fact that I'm not allowed to like this video more than once is pure homophobia
Lol 7 rings
40 oz queen
I ship Demon Empress Contra and Valiant Paladin Lars.
Go you! Degenerates and epicures for the win!
Oh my god, she did it before ariana!!!
15:35 Was that "antifa, furries" or "antifa furries", because https://www.furaffinity.net/user/antifafurs/
Degeneracy is dope
as a recently bi guy who has giggle fits over all your joke segments, its really hard to tell if im laughing at you or with you. I worry its at you because you have specifically described it as your own dark humor, but it also seems with you because of the way you present it. I also cant tell if it is designed to appeal to hetero men so to release tension and keep them watching like joke segments in comedy newscasts. But also its really liberating to see somebody so opening celebrating the absurd comedy of whats going on and what you are going through. and I cant tell which parts im in and how deep. Fuck its confusing im confused and have been thinking about it
I live for that sample of my favorite things
Now the real question is, which is the better song: Degenerate Things or 7 Rings
I swear, if ContraPoints cut out all the gags and sketches and just stuck to making actual . . . ya know, points . . . all her videos would be 5-10 minutes at most.
i can't stand the way camille speaks
Thank you for the fleetwood cover
Getting strong Oscar Wilde vibes
Freak
For. The. Love. Of. Glob. Record and release a full version of your rag-timey version of Gold Dust Woman...
Nietzsche wanted to move beyond the dichotomy, that was point. Arguably he was trying to move beyond this "decadent and degenerate" split that was happening between philosophers at the time.
So where do you and most LGBT people draw the line? Revenge fucking? Polyamory? Pedophilla? Incest? Zoophilia? Necrophillia? Jerking off to polaroids of disembodied corpse?
I know I'm late to the party, but im going to say it anyway.  The "Gays came from class and gender oppression" statement has a historical basis (even if it's still an incorrect conclusion). Homosexuality was excepted in the pre-Christian Hellenic and Latin world, but it coexisted with slavery and toxic masculinity. Gay relations was only excptable if you were the "dominant" male in the relationship or if you were doing your own slaves (particularly in Roman society). Women were seen as malformed men and therefore gay relations were seen as more Noble in Greek society. Needless to say, class, sexism and  sexual violence were the ugly realities of ancient Western cultures.  Of course, the assumption that this  is all there is to homosexuality is false.
is may favourite degenerate things on spotify?
@tryguys @eugeneleeyang
This one I didn't like so much. The song at the end I mean. Didn't watch the video.
Te comencé a ver de hace poco ... WOW o,o impresionante el contenido que entregas, una calidad 10/10 <3
Camile Paglia is a horrible anti-feminist whose fifteen minutes of fame has long been over.
Was that a Promethea reference?
Can anyone tell me who the man is that appears around 18:58?
Any time that you play the blues, I die.
I want that song as a ring tone
Enby Drag Kings!! <3
I always watch your videos when I do my nails. Yay, degeneracy!
Fuck Paglia, dude.
OMG Cobra, and a true intelligent human!  I love you! Edit, forgot talented.
Natalie I need you to know your "favourite things" spoof made me laugh snort. Loudly. In public.
I really like the scientist contra look for some reason, why am i into labcoats now? And spooky science goggles, this is weird  Learning new things all the time, mad scientist looks apparently do it for me, labcoats are hot now This is going to make watching cartoons with evil scientists awkward for me  How will i enjoy phineas and pherb now? Damn you perry the platypus!
I’m smiling so much just from watching you older videos and then coming to this one and you already seem so much happier and confident it just makes me so happy
Been watching for a while....you're so pretty and smart, I wish more people were like you.
This version of gold dust woman is better than the original
degenerates like you belong on a cross
12:58 I think I just came. ugh thanks for this video production quality & serving academic 'n creative inspiration for the ages .
Whipped dairy spray topping of the Fenrir Matron(tm).
I rather like the old mustache german anti nihilist myself.  Though for the extensionalism not the other weird shit like the warrior jew race.. Which is kinda a complement but still moon logic. or his views on women.  Oh boy his views on women.
I still can't help but call furries and those who like monstergirls degenerate...  I mean, it's not human! And they're WEIRD.
Is there a transcript of this video I can plaster on my wall? :D
The King Cobra bit!! I am dead! XD
my only reason for drinking alcohol is that it's easier to get than good artificial banana flavour, and it came in banana flavour, score
lmfao, i was just gonna make a joke about me being Syreeta in the streets and Streets (a nickname/typo i'm referred to as) in the sheets, but then you went and said my real name XD (begins with a D, and is that of a god)
I sometimes throw 'degenerate'  or 'decadent' back at reactionaries, but I have some very weird notions. Like, Robespierre & Saint-Just, Republic of Virtue type notions.
Holy smoke that Gold Dust Woman cover!
12:15 just this chart
"Abagail, what is your damage?"
I'm not a comment writing type, but for a while was gathering courage to write and tell that I admire your videos very much! I started to watch around a year ago and decided to watch all from the beginning, so I am now here, still over a year behind your newest videos. I find them very inspiring and thought provoking, and feel like I can not binge watch as I need time to sort my thoughts in between the videos. I just wanted to tell that I think you are a awesome, smart, creative, beautiful person and I appreciate what you do <3
I think their are a lot of It's always Sunny in Philadelphia references in this video.
Oh no! oh my! That first part looks like straight out of my window minus sheep... but his accent sounds more Stockholm-ish, this looks very similar like the location where i pick magic mushrooms, but then most of Sweden south of Uppsala looks kinda the same, except Scania and Gotland, i bet in the right season he could pick some liberty cap mushrooms in that location though... I think he's too much in the deep end as it is, being even more "woke" could be harmful.
"You never see old men in dresses" Someone please make this person work in a care home for 6 months. You'll see more degeneracy than can ever be allowed on FurAffinity.
Just wanted to mention how happy it makes me to watch your video's as I become progressively more degenerate. I used to listen to people like Sargon of Akkad and I've only recently figured out how much of myself I hated because of that. Your video's make me feel much more happy and confident. Thank you!
am I the only one who ships contrapoints and the golden one?
"How's your Mom doing, she alright?"  (Slow dark entries)
Kolejny żydowski sodomita z Szatanów Zboczonych, pozostawiony na pastwę swoich cielesnych pożądliwości.
Starting to forget that there's actually only one of you doing all the characters.
and you have an ashtray in your bathtub!!! that's awesome!!!
ok, does anyone know the name of the classical music at the very start of this vid?  I MUST know.  seriuously, it's been annoying me for.. quite literally... years...
"Oh my god. Look at his but" 😂
The greatest degenerate will forever be John Waters
The golden one is what I imagine Rocky would be like if given the 7 days of training Dr. Furter had in mind
I'm a far-righter. My main problem with the whole "degeneracy" obsession of my fellow far-righters isn't that it's politically incorrect, "racist" or "homophobic" - it's that it sucks all joy out of life. There is more to life than just preserving your race, culture, religion, ethnicity, etc. Sure, those things are important too (otherwise I wouldn't be a far-righter), but we aren't supposed to be drones only doing that. There has to be room for joy, mischief, fun, etc. too. This is why traditionalism will never appeal to me. Most self-proclaimed "traditionalists" are control-freaks who couldn't care less about their own race - they just use it as a fake excuse to control people. Most of them are crypto-incels who embraced "traditionalism" out of sexual frustration, and conveniently only focus on "traditional gender roles" (but only when it's convenient for incels, like arranged marriage).
This video could be 5 minutes
b b but   _straight absynthe?_
Who's here after listening to Ariana Grande's song "7 rings" lol
"Friedrich Nhhh"
I often come back to this video just to hear the gold dust woman cover...
Still waiting to hear a response from Riley J Dennis on why she destroyed ancient Rome.
Then intro to this video in particular is soooo good so cinematic
5videos in &im in love with u💜
Polyamorists are one of your favourite degenerate things? 😊😍 Woo! 😘
Oh my god!! Watching this I have uncovered another layer of internalised oppression! First it was recognising how activists still perpetuate the puritan, capitalist work ethic, then realising my internalised ablism and now... I've been still applying this crap to myself about how I need to conform to some ancient ideal. Fuck. That. Shit. Thank you, Contra 💖
I love your videos but whut are you putting in your Absinthe?! Dirty sock water?? 😉
Collectivist at it again!
I want to be a priest, I love this video
Okay, I can't help myself, not even enough to realise how unlikely it is for you to reply... But why don't you like Nietzsche??! I am curious!! I haven't read Nietzsche yet and I intend to, but I am curious as to the effect he had on you for you to conclude into a "fuck you Nietzsche"...
"You know, Lars" really weirded me out no one ever says my name out loud in American stuff
is there a contrapoints reading list somewhere
thank god somebody else also thinks neitzsche's an idiot
Camille Paglia is a female fuckboi
Camille Paglia looks unhinged in that clip.
This Golden One guy is a level of insecure masculinity previously unseen in all of human history
Why do I have to have right to exist?
Holy crap! Where can I download your cover of the Fleetwood Mac song at the end? It's fantastic.
that's actually a pretty nasty performance in the outro, well done Natalie
If this channel cannot or will not offer gender dysphoric alcohol drenched debasement than I shall find my church elsewhere Madam. Good day.
Ever since I watched Natalie's video on incels I can't get over how big her head is
Finally someone who mentions the commie-queerness is a social disease formed from capitalism's inability to sustain itself
Great choice of music
nietzsche wasn't a nazi (i mean being anti semitic was pretty vogue at the time so...) when he died he gave his legacy to his sister and by extent his brother-in-law who was a nazi and made nietzshe works (more) nazi
So are you gonna speak out against LGBT people trying to normalize pedophilla?
15:00 Thanks for the callout!
love you natalie, but do you really think that most people will probably always be cis-straight? i always thought that the tendency is for everybody to start realizing their own "degeneration" as awareness raises, thus normalizing it, to the point that gender and sexuality discussions will be pretty much pointless, maybe?
My lesbian heart cant take Natalie in that bathing suit, I blushed when I saw her
Thank you for the song at (1)4:20.
My daily dose of libertarian meshing
Can we go drink together? I get to pick the persona though. Deal?
good goy
Nah, don´t fuck Nietzsche, his face on a bookcover is such a great way to Keep old People from staring at you in Berlins Ubahn because you are simply a few decades too young to exist...And usually I would not even give a damn about People staring at me, but... those eyes... The horror...Well also at least parts of his work are mildly interesting, but that is just a neat bonus.
I can't believe Johnny Bravo is a real person.
This is my first contrapoints video ever after current affairs recommended it and I can already confirm that the audio quality is degenerate. Hope it's better in later videos!
I had no idea Paglia was "problematic" til this video. That snippet is pretty clarifying.
My new holiday song.
i laughed so hard that almost vomit myself :D gg. Dam, u rock
Good videos funny as fuck but im with golden one
OK that Golddust Woman is my favorite musical performance of yours I've seen thus far.  I really appreciate a re-styled cover and that ending was hot to death.  It sounded like something out of the Slonimsky thesaurus.
Usually, you should be pouring water onto the sugar with some absinthe already in the glass
i'm confused, is contra a libertarian?
Oh my god I exploded in laugh when you said That dennis destroyed ancient rome hahahaahha you are funny.
I love all of your videos but the My Favorite Things song killed me. Thank you ContraPoints xoxoxox
16:00 OH GOD  CONTRAPOINTS ASMR  IT'S EVERYTHING I'VE EVER NEEDED
Alcohol does nothing for me. My body metabolizes it really weird, so I've never been drunk.
if i had to make a list about the top 10 things i like, degeneracy would be at least in the top 3. not necessarily the kind of degeneracy that wants fascist buffboys to rape you. but degeneracy as in, deviating from anything the person who originally accused you of degeneracy thought about being representative for the fukkn "kind."  ps, i love your videos. i didn't love this one though because it dissed nietzsche. thumbs down.
You didn't even rinse off those grapes before eating them, onto the train.
Does ContraPoints have a degenerate rock album I can purchase? Cuz god, that outro.
Just found out about you today, a few hours of your videos later, big A+ 10/10. Love your work, sassy, satirical, well spoken. 10/10 would watch again.
I dunno, I like The Golden One the way you would like an adorable puppy whose beyond cute but shits on the carpet, eats it’s own vomit, and scoots across your freshly laundered bed spread. 10:40 give me androgyny, give me queer, give me the end of civilization, because I’d rather it all end then be stuck with that old bitch’s mentality 14:02 yesss give me all of those
What’s the song at the beginning?
absolute laugh out loud at the few of your favourite things
I came here , to this channel ,for the social/political commentary.  I stayed for the voice and that piano.  My word you've got a heavenly sound to you.
I have a lot of Libertarian Facebook friends and it really is surprising how many of them claim to be anti-collectivist but also care very strongly about the health of the empire...as though an empire weren't just one giant collective. When I point this out to them it usually makes their brains glitch and they either fly into a rage or just stop talking to me for a while.
1:40 the Caterpillar becomes the butterfly
The fact that George Soros is the first person on your Patron list is hilarious.
I went from watching porn to watching this video and didn’t even have to stop masturbating.  Thanks, Natalie!
Funny video babe but I don't see why people can't just coexist. A lot of your points are strawmen though. Please watch this as it decreases your credibility.
This is just ship-teasing in video essay form
Love the Gold Dust Woman cover.
I really enjoy your videos ContraPoints, but your comments about Gibbon are quite off the mark in this instance.  Criticisms of Caligula or Nero as degenerate come from the historical sources of Tacitus, Suetonius, Historia Augusta, etc, and are written by the highly conservative Senatorial classes, and quite clearly reflect the social norms of the time.  This is complicated by the fact that men taking a male lover at this time was not a particularly surprising thing in Roman society, and pederasty with male children was also considered somewhat acceptable.  The criticisms largely are based around assertions that the emperors in question were indulging in degeneracy and behaviour not suitable to their station at the expense of all of the other duties associated with their position, and we only need to look at Antinous to see how acceptable a male lover was considered if the emperor was competent in performing his other duties.  Obviously there's plenty to pick apart about the ethics of Hadrian's rule besides this point, but I hope you see what I mean.   As for Gibbon himself, The Decline... begins with the end of the reign of Marcus Aurelius and the disastrous failures of Commodus, and barely mentions Nero or Caligula at all.  He certainly does consider 'softness' and degeneracy when tracing the causes of the fall of the Roman Empire, but his main thesis revolves around the poor general management of clear problems in favour of egoism by bad emperors, the overwhelming powers of the military force, the fact that the Senate was a blunt instrument, etc.  He's not entirely convincing, it's true, but your comment here is flippant and as wide of the mark as Cammile Paglia's.
your voice confirmed my gayness
Oh, Natalie... you're just wonderful. I'd love to meet you in person
Degenerate is that which does not follow society's norms. All civilisation is prone to decay and fall, it is as natural as old age and death in the wild. Degeneracy can never be wholly removed from society. The goal of us conservatives is to keep it to a minimum. By the way, well-made and entertaining video.
Modern Day Facists likely can’t get laid anyway. They’re either lying or people who shouldn’t breed in the first place.
lmao the tranny wants to lecture us on degeneracy
More covers please!
The “these are a few of my favorite things” music coming in had me rolling already, and then you went into degenerate things. I love you
The scientist character looks just like Entrapta from the new She-ra reboot <3
I think you did not get  nietzsches philosophy right... Especially compairing this little part to a rohrschach test... because that is what every non complete part of any theory becomes when you take it out of context.
I don't know why, but I love hearing you sing. Just putting that out there.
We need more Abigail Cockbane!
I love your blend of eruditeness (please whip me for that neologistic faux pas) and comedy.
I think I like your cover of Goldust Woman more than the original. The upbeat rhythm changes the meaning of the song.
My boyfriend used to avidly be a 4chan rightist (yeah, we all know what Im trying to say) and he used to be a proud hitler-youth boy and whom was full Trump supporter.   It took two years of civil arguments, educative discourse, and of course contrapoints videos to get him to realize his beliefs were not just irrational, but harmful.    Of course this was a massive thing for me being a Queer, Mexican immigrant woman with a "dominant" personality. I still dont really know how we ended up together and how he became a supporter for the left and decided to start therapy to get his own issues straight.    Ps: His friends told him his being my friend was an act of white genocide (hence Im an ethnic and Queer degenerate who loves her decadent likings) and I think that's what made him finall really snap.
I seriously need to remind you how perfect and needed your degeneration is ;_; I was looking for something like dizzz after many bullshit heard from Daddy Odin the Pro-European sassy butt lord of Golden Cringe.
Nice version of Gold Dust Woman
Isn't the point, to move past both the slave morality and the master morality, and develop one's own morality? Asking for a friend.
lol everyone around me is also 'lgbt is legal now, the world is doomed, it's near apocalypse' uh hun if you're worried the world is going to end, think about global warming first before blaming it on the gays.
I really like your videos, wish getting to meet you someday. congrats!
Not only should all types of people be allowed to exist as long as what they are doing isn't morally wrong their experiences are valid. That doesn't mean everyone has to understand everyone just that you shouldn't limit people's freedoms because what other people is icky to you or disgusting
Why are you my favorite person. I want to have tea with you.
ContraPoints sneakily making us all Heart fans by repeatedly linking their music to positive experiences
To be fair, the goal of any logical person is to survive, fascism comes with the inherent selfishness that rests within the survivalist nature of all people. This can be said for every movement, especially things like anarchism and libertarianism. I say that being libertarian, I think that within reason anything that is not highly destructive to people other than yourself for anything other than shite emotional reasons, should be allowed, but I also say these ideals are just as selfish, along  with being slightly selfless in a way. People always want more, we wish to survive, but also to more than survive, such is in our nature. The fascists are the same, but at an expense to more people than other movements, same with traditionalism, albeit with much less perceived malicious intent. What I'm saying is, we all want to survive, even them, but to be the only survivor, or to want to be, is in part understandable even if disagreeable. On top of that, anarchism and fascism are both equally idiotic due to the amount of harm they create, the only thing  I've found that makes sense is libertarianism, as there's less cost to others when those others just have more reasonable rights without the detriment of the absence of law. Not going against the argument, but since this is primarily entertainment based commentary, I just wanted to throw something out for perspective's sake despite it being just an obvious clarification lacking a need for explanation. In other words, I got bored after the video maybe a little too quickly. I need a hobby.
Is there really any person here that identifies (lol) as a man and considers Contrapoint´s life/mindset more  desirable as the Golden One´s!? (politics set aside)
As a gay latin person, I find no contradiction between the supposedly queerness of the greeks and romans and their masculinity. If anything, it is the opposite. They LOVED manliness, like a LOT. And the greeks and romans were some of the greatest warriors in human history. Hell, even the legends. Hercules was into men AND women, because sexual power was a symbol of manliness for them (it also is for the alt right, but they flip flop between praising Alphas womanizers and claiming to defend morality and traditional family). Rome was all about order and civilization, power. It has much more to do with those people's vision of the world than the savage germanic tribes, who lived in hutts, couldn't properly write, and had no sense of unity, much like those people claim the "savages" of today are.
Heard your Chapo! You're the best.
fuck she can play piano and sing tooooo --- threy cheerz for that showstopper ending!
D E C A D E N T
Oh how I enjoy your content! And love to hear you sing^^
"[...]unless you like having fun[...]"  It still amazes me that someone who has done as many drugs as you, including a lot of psychedelics, has not come to the conclusion that drugs are used to make you forget that your life is sad. I don't you have ever once tried to understand why people think that artificial pleasure amd happiness are wrong. Anyone that has half read a book like Brave New World can see where this indulgence in pleasurable stimulis can lead you to.
15:46 OMG, you need to do more ASMR videos! I liked that.. a bit too much. :)
chief dingbat :D
I proudly wear the degenerate badge on my sleeve.
Nietzsche is called Neechah in America, TIL
I love when you sing!
Degenerate is honestly one of my favorite words as a polysexual gnc trans guy. I take it as a compliment at this point. No, I don't think it should be used as a slur against people but it is anyways so I might as well use it as a compliment to counter that
I reached for the knocked off candle at 16:08
I swear when she burped I smelt it
Vandolls and the Hons destroyed the Roman Repubics
Respect to the cobra
After coming to a broken cliff edge, nearer to it my mind pushes me. A wall with force behind it made entirely of her will, and others, and the world, of those illusions of my enemies both real memories of my trauma, and imagined evils of my mind yet to reach fruition. I am alive, and helpless? Am I helpless? And I feel it. I feel the will, from my very chest, as if my heart could truly grasp onto that will to keep surviving, as if I can truly defeat that fate, with my mind bringing crushing realizations of its futility. It remains continuously amidst that impossible oppressive force.  And with it I forge the weapons to defeat my enemy in any manner that I can. And I use it to strike at her own heart, damning her to eventual oblivion, and I bring her down with my own miseries, as she tells me that she has none, as if terrified of the idea that I could win my freedoms from her. And I will keep doing so, for as long as I am still living, in an effort to keep myself, inside of my own mind. In rebellion indeed, rebellion to others who would try to control who I am.  In rebellion to this horrid, wretched existence in my mind. And in reality, those people exist too, who tell me that my struggle is nothing. As if it will end my pain. As if it will end the very pain that causes me to speak of it at all, and they won't.
3:37 Khdhdhfhfhd is that fucking Barda Karl. Oh my god yes could he have picked a better representation of swedish fantasy.
I wish I'd first run into this video on LSD.
OK... omg... this was great I'm new; well actually, an elder
thau be hot mein darling
you and your acolytes wil all burn. You have no voice, you have reason. You and your ilk are as nothing. You wil be defeated by sheer wil. You wil again be forced to live in the sewer where you hide from the light, drowning in your own iniquity. You have no right to live among us. You are the despised, the diseased, the befouled.  You have already been defeated
The Golden One really needs to stop using Lord of the Rings as his go-to masculinity guide. The main heroes of the story are hobbits... HOBBITS
(((Patrons)))  Genius
how are you both hot as a man and a woman, god dam.
I want to thank you for your channel and the messages you are trying to get across. I think all anyone asks for is acceptance..
"think of the children" things hardly heard by fascists about selling bombs to saudi arabia, selling opioids or abuse in religious institutions
I can't believe you broke into a musical number. My jaw dropped. You are the new YouTube and I love it.
I’m always impressed by your production and argumentation. Keep it up!
Girl, that voice tho!!!! Dang, I’m smiling 😍😍😍
I love hate watching your videos. theyre just so well put together and articulated! love it~
Degeneracy also refer to people who are comfortable in who they are, their sexuality and who use their bodily autonomy.  And people who dare stimulate themselves with recreational substances, exploring the corners of their mind.  Basically anything fun is degeneracy. According to them, our purpose is to repress every single curiosity and desire of ours, pray to god, cook and clean, be modest and pop out babies. Oh and men can drink beers and slam their uncovered bellies against each other while yelling warcries. But thats about it.
You look like a skinny Miranda Hart. Not a criticism, she is the best.
I'm working my way through the Contra-Golden one Saga. I hope it has a happy ending.
Have a Like for that fuckin awesome song.
I like your art nouveau piece
Just going to say that I don’t have working facial recognition, so the fact that all your characters have distinctive voices and styles instead of just lazy makeup is super helpful. I really love you’re work <3
Essentially, what's at play here is a drive for "purview" -- humans constantly want to have purview, they want to be able say it's "their business", which then allows them to act as though they have a right to influence the situation -- this is, for instance, what Evangelical Christians do -- they know that they actually have no business telling other people what they can & cannot do w/ their bodies, so they create a "purview" for themselves, by claiming that,  well, if those wicked people keep on a-sinnin', almighty gawd's gonna bring the hammer down on all of us!  The argument then shifts, away from personal choices, to the choices that are "best for all of us" -- giving the Evangelicals, in their minds, the right to assert purview over the behavior of others -- &, oh yeah, "THE CHILDREN!" @_@  & this is what the fascists do -- if it's just a matter of them being squicked by "degenerate" behavior, then they don't really have much to stand on -- ahhh, but if they can claim that "degeneracy" is an existential threat to the very existence of civilization, well then, that gives them purview -- that gives them, in their minds, the right to persecute any & all activities that they consider degenerate -- then, it's not just a subculture of people who want to make their own personal choices about how they live their lives, it's A ROTTING DISEASE THAT WILL BRING DOWN ALL WE KNOW & LOVE!!!  ERMAHGERD!!!  Being able to claim that they, somehow, have some skin in the game, to assert purview, gives them the justification they need to, by any means necessary, control or destroy the people & things that they disagree w/...
14:20 Why am I liking this so much?
WHAT IS ABIGAIL'S MOTHER OK
I love you
Humans and the variola virus cannot coexist, and neither can society and degenerates. You're not just people fighting for their "right to exist", you're a disease threatening everyone else. Thankfully fascism is coming back fast...
There's a difficulty in convincing fascists of the harmlessness of... well, let's be honest, Us Degenerates. If we define Fascists as those who want to be the "only survivors," and we look at the arguments of the fascists - "this is a war," "allowing degenerates to exist outside of specially designated camps (that we will thoughtfully provide for them) destroys super special normal beautiful white babies" -  we can see that they believe, (yes really,) that there WILL only be one survivor, and it will be either us or them. They literally believe that if we are allowed to exist outside of careful containment, we will breed like a disease and wipe out normality. How can we convince them that this isn't the case? (And I mean, if we can't, fine. It's on, bitch. Sane people believe us and are smarter than you, which means we're gonna win.)
Coolest version of Gold Dust Woman I've heard for ages.
I highly recommend you to read 'Nietzsche and anarchy' by Shahin. You can find it on the anarchist library website. It's an anarchist reading of Nietzsche's "free spirit"-period and I found it very enlightening!
r u amazing at this whole youtube thing
The ironic thing is that Gibbons blamed the fall of the Roman Empire more on Christianity than anything else. It was Christian piety and asceticism, the very opposite of decadence, that sapped the Roman martial will, or at least that was his thesis.
Okay so....I'm late to this, but I'm 💯 The Golden Ones nonsense. I mean he's beautiful at face value but wtf is all the King Arthur shit, and why is he anti SW when he STAYS getting on cam naked?
Lol I think all neo-nazis here in Finland I've ever met is >Single and bitching about not having "Enough pure white short and submissive females available" >Unemployed AND screetching about unemployed "degenerate" people. >Not having kids BUT b*tching how enough white babies aren't being made. >Silent BUT b*tching about anybody else who is filling that silent space with speech. >B*tching about b*tching while they say b*tchyness is degenerate.  On top of that, most of them like me (AND find me hot) and I'm trans, queer, left-leaning, vegan, top op'd, unemployed ATM, raised in a muslim family... And half african.
Can you possibly make us a full song of "Degeneracy."
If you read all the essays in theGenealogy of morals, you would know that Nietzsche thought that both master and slave morality are insufficient, and that in order to be truly free, the individual must make his own meaning and decide his own fate. You seem to be going off false ideas about Nietzsche and his thoughts. Most of these false interpretations originate from Nietzsche’s sister (it could be cousin, I forget) who edited some of his works and put her own racist beliefs and published them after Nietzsche died.
I could be wrong because I'm probably not even 1% as well read as Natalie, but didn't Nietzsche argue that both Slave Morality and the Master Morality of old were flawed, and that we needed a new system of morals with the self-empowering values of master morality but also a focus on giving those who were weak the ability to be their own powerful, valued masters? I thought that was kind of what he was getting at.
@10:28 That is a straight up malt liquor belch. I could almost taste it. Lol.
So, what you're saying is that we shouldn't play Edward Fortyhands with King Kobra every October 19th in your honor and in honor of degeneracy?  Because I was going to suggest it.
I need a full version of your version of the Favorite Things song. PLEASE
Those grapes look nasty, did you wash them?
*todd howard has entered the chat*
I've been watching from the beginning and this is where Contrapoints peaks
16:20 (((MOST CERTAINLY)))
I paused the video to tell you that I adore you. You are my spiritual leader, intellectual guru and pin-up hottie all in one irresistibly funny package.
very surprised by your reading of Nietzsche. I think his point is not that 'the wrong' values are celebrated, but that the whole value system (good - bad vs good - evil) is fucked. master morality is not about being beautiful. it is about a value system that is not based on aesthetic, convention, or law, but on a sense of morality. in making a judgement based on 'imposed' values such as the 10 commandments or the law, morality is not an issue anymore: you just behave as you 'should', and are a good person. but this is not the case. morality demand that for each specific situation a new judgement is made based on values you as a person stand for, applied to the current specific situation. the 'master' is someone who thinks about their own moral values and does not base them off of some existing (immoral) system. just because the eating of animals is not forbidden by law does not make it morally right to consume animals; we can apply personal moral values and debate whether it is morally right or wrong to eat animals, and then make a decision based on the outcome of the debate.   TL;DR: I think Nietzsche's point is that we should think about our values and not just mindlessly assume that adhering to the values of the dominant value system makes you a good person. this searching for your own values he called 'master morality'.
Ewww. Who is this disgusting guy? He thinks he is a woman. That's adorable.
That Camillia woman also seems to be extremely concerned with femininity 🤔🤔
to be fair that article was from the 70s
i still have a soft spot for Fredrich albeit his beliefs were mainly stupid
I'm waiting eagerly for your ASMR channel
Wow! I thought 'degenerate' was just a general synonym for like 'ruffian' or 'buffoon' and that 4chan had adopted it for memes for whatever reason; I was not expecting the history behind it.
Damn, you really would be my favorite ASMRtist
We get it you like degenerosity but countries and great societies aren't made with degenerosity in mind, so goodbye.
I'm crying at the comments on TGO's response video even his fans think he wants to fuck contra
full version of "these are my favorite degenerate things" on soundcloud when???
At the peak of the Greek empire the crazed little boys. The Roman empire had no concept of homosexuality as an identity or actual being, rather,  a transient state or set of encounters.
I agree with 95% of this, but I really don’t feel comfortable with the whole idea of meaningless emotionless sex and perversion. It’s not because of fashy bullshit like tradition and nationalism but because it’s unproductive and emotionally draining.
Love your videos, but "fuck Nietzsche" is over the line. Take it back
okay... I love you.
I absolutely love you
I love us degenerates.
He ain’t a faceist.
lol george soros i just noticed that XD =he's a patreon=
Hahaha George Soros
I can't get enough of this version of Gold Dust Woman. I've listened to it half a dozen times, it's so freaking catchy.
Only 8.27 in... wait decadent means “to fall from grace”? ... I am familiar with this fashy ideology but I always thought the word decadent meant to add, or abundance, it makes me think of chandeliers and overflowing fruit baskets ! This has seriously upended my Sunday !
I’m a straight conservative, but  contrapoints is pretty hot 😍
Duuuude. So when is the Contra covers album coming out????
Incredible videos. I love them.
Natalie has beautiful teeth
nice shoutout to Turing.  I was so pissed that The Imitation Game biopic denied him (or at least his legacy) the dignity of redressing his barbaric treatment at the hands of his government by using the film as an opportunity to acknowledge the tragic injustice of his death, as a kind of "sorry" and "thank you" and especially "we're so so fucking sorry.  like, we know /we/ didn't do that bullshit, forcing you into hormone treatment and chemical castration for your homosexuality that was illegal in the UK as well as being erroneously medicalized in society such that it had its own entry in the DSM III as a paraphilia/mental disorder calling for questionable treatments with no real proven efficacy. and even though it was our parents' generation or maybe our grandparents who pushed you into mental hospitals to be poked and prodded FOR YEARS and forced to take dangerous levels of poorly understood synthetic hormones that would radically destabilize you mentally, emotionally and physically to the point that you had no recourse to escape this hellish bureaucratic medical nightmare but to take your own life with cyanide, we're still sorry.  we're so utterly incommunicably fucking sorry that shit was done to you after all you did, and so thank you."
I want the degeneracy song on spotify! <3
Thank you for highlighting that Camille Paglia is completely full of shit. :D
this is me supporting you and everything u do
Why did you suggest Zizek is a homophobe? I'm triggered. Zizek is totes an ally.
You know the internet is a wonderous place. I think we all need some contra and golden one in our lives.
Does regenerate mean the opposite of degenerate? I've looked it up and the "re" prefix is most of the time used to make opposites of words beginning with de, but regenerate is an odd egg because really it means "to generate again". If I'm wrong, I'd be very happy if someone could explain it to me.
hol up i was cool till you said nietzche was a fuckboy
What kinda commies were those? The fake kind
saint saens and the carnival of animals is so good. so are your takes, obviously, but saint saens <3
Ive hated nietzche and his filosofy ever since I first learned about it in in 5th year of secondary school. It just seemed childish, whiny, selfish and depressing and I'm positively elated to be validated by a philosofy major and God-Queen of YouTube.
I am in the process of watching all of your videos but I just became a real fan at the 'fuck Nietzsche' part
If it bleeds we can kill it
You are a fucking gem. I did 3 degenerate things while watching this video.
Great video ContraPoints! Would you ever consider transcribing the sheet music for that Stevie Nicks cover? I'd ♥ to play it. 😁
Degeneracy as I understand it has nothing to do with "kind" but with productivity and creativity (or lack thereof). It is related to the word "generate" as in to generate technological innovation or to generate electricity. When I label something as "degenerate" I mean to say that it contributes nothing to community and society and may in fact damage everyone.    Degeneracy arises from a deep selfishness and hedonistic desire to recklessly consume the fruits of society (and other individuals) without contributing to the cultivation of the system responsible for those fruits or the wellbeing of the individuals that the degenerate behavior might exploit.   Degeneracy is by definition "anti-growth" and is a destructive force within society, culture, and individuals.   "Degeneracy" is not a dog whistle to decry any one group, as degenerate behavior exists across many demographics. Plenty of, for example, trans people are not degenerate and contribute a lot of benefits on society. In short, trans is not degenerate except perhaps insofar as trans don't normally biologically reproduce, but they can and often are quite productive. Also some trans people can exhibit degeneracy sometimes. It's not an anti-trans thing, it's an anti selfish unproductivity thing.
channeling "Dancer in the Dark" for degeneracy
I'm sorry, but every time I see this "The golden one" guy it always seems more gay than gay men to me. like, secretly gay and superficially heterosexual. I can't help it!
Some of the video clips you make me watch.......
Those dead degenerate eyes...
Degenerate?...thats kinda hot!!!  PS: im like half Swedish, and half Ukrainian. So half my family wants to put my other half in a concentration camp...yup
Fascinating essay. I myself am mixed race. You know, the variety that most people have in mind when they think of miscegenation. If you choose to acknowledge it, being mixed race is a precious gift. A gift that, if you are not immersed, and hobbled by racial identity, serves to point out the hypocrisy of both sides of your "cultural heritage." Where am I going with all this? I genuinely admire your eloquence, your wit, and your wish for us all to get along. Here comes the main but. Powerful forces, namely the mainstream media, are, in my opinion, deliberately trying to drive a wedge between trans people, gay and lesbian people, and heteros like me. I have never been homophobic or transphobic, but I can see the damage that the flamboyant, "scene" Pride marching minority do to the sober sided majority who don't want their hard fought rights jeopardised by needless activism and wall to wall media exposure.
FulgrimPoints.
You should really cover the historical struggle between fashy ascetic Platonists and degenerate hedonistic Epicureans. I find it fascinating that in the heart of fashy ascetic catholic empire grew the epicurean humanist movement which sparked the renaissance.
god your singing voice is gorgeous!!! Your tone and timbre is so beautiful!
Your "favorite things" song made my night!
People kept telling me to check out Contrapoints I wish I had sooner this stuff is amazing... fun relevant facts, deconstructing my foes and really good editing. It’s even musical I can’t not love it. Thank you for your creative contribution.
14:37 Hahahaha I love that song.
😂😂😂😂😂😂😂😂😂😂😂😂
Huh I've never met a communist that actually was against homosexuality or anything
this is still probably my favorite contra video...
I was thinking that things were so different now, and then . . . COBRA.  Some things never change, and that's not always bad. <3
'and that's why we never bathe with fascists' iconic
She drinking 40 oz we need to hang.
You’re degenerate because of genetic causes and are the reason blacks have a lower IQ still
I guess some people never grow up .
Contra, you are such a beautiful person. Thank you so much. You have exceptional intellect and talent, mixed with sophistry, that is exceptionally rare. You are very creative and have this very endearing ability to mix humor with seriousness, without being offensive.   You are a true artist and you enrich my life.
this is not at all related but you look so cute in the pink wig and goggles !! ♡
Had to stop when he started singing. Who doesn't see Wile E. Coyote in that Rorcharch image????
why do i love you so much?
This channel is equal parts intellectual dissection of radical ideas, and cocktail mixing tutorials...and I love it.
I want "These are a few of my favorite degenerate things" to be a full song now.
Suffer not the heretic, purge the unclean.
I just threw up a little in my mouth.  Made it to 1:42
Superb piece. Don't let the little shits get to ya. Sending love x
Here in montreal we're all degenerate trolls who don't give a fuck about other degenerates. Generation D ftw.
absolutely phenomenol
OHGODOHGODOHGODOHGOD!!!! please please please pretty please could you do a full version of that song some time? it's just... so beautiful ☆*:.｡.o(≧▽≦)o.｡.:*☆
i read HARD into the ...as you put it, "cult of Dionysus" interpretation of Nietzsche. at the time, i was also interested in Daoism, and saw the two as highly compatible, each basically saying that the path to self-actualization is different for everyone, discover and follow your own instead of enforcing it on others, and with a bit of reading between the lines, that a good society is one that makes it possible for everyone to discover and follow their own paths as freely as possible. on some level, this interpretation makes it difficult for me completely give up on Nietzsche in spite of learning how drastically different so many people seem to take his writings, especially in fascist directions. on some level, i *still* don't understand that as anything other than *incredibly* surface-level reading. like how people take the "God is dead" quote in absence of how it continues (which i basically took to be a message similar to that in the song "Stigmata Martyr" by Abney Park - society has killed God (in the sense of "the divine"/spirituality) by using it to justify whatever actions and behaviours we want it to rather than the stated purpose of having our own actions and behaviours guided by it; this, in turn, is only the tip of the iceberg when it comes to my thoughts on this, but this is already stupidly long for a YouTube comment so...). the other thing that i took from it was existentialism in the sense of "optimistic nihilism": there is no real meaning to anything, which means you get to make your own (part of why the above is only the beginning of my thoughts on that subject). ...to be honest, i still regard Nietzsche as my favourite philosopher, because that was the philosophy i took from him, and - pretty much unchanged - is still the core of my own philosophical worldview. and i just regard the dislike (and, in my eyes, fascist appropriation and misuse) he gets as being an incomplete or inaccurate understanding of his writing. of course, it's easier to feel that way when i was basically the only person i knew who *had* read Nietzsche until... basically now, and that explicitly *was* the reason people i knew disliked him (e.g. "God is dead" not being the full story of that quote). ...needless to say, getting to actually have some sort of conversation with you (senpai) on the subject is practically my wet dream right now... >.>
Okay but the Gold Dust Woman cover was divine
Aaaaa
You are my favorite degenerate, and you need to be protected at all costs.
idk what's what but some of the tunes in this sound exactly like "thinking about love" by Autumn Keys. Which is a great song y'all should check out.  Love the vids keep em coming plz k thx
Thanks for sharing your talents. So glad there's degeneracy to prompt such creative content
You are so intelligent, informative and entertaining 😂
you cold have just looked up it's definition , "having lost the physical, mental, or moral qualities considered normal and desirable; showing evidence of decline."  also "an immoral or corrupt person."  synos - reprobate, libertine, and profligate.  It's really dumb to believe this word alone has anything to do what fascist understand as race or kind.  that really reaching.  kind of a dishonest slant
Funny sure, but still a degenerate.
love u
MAKE A VIDEO ABOUT NIETZCHE FOR MY EDGY FRIENDS
How long did it take to film that intro? And what kind of absinthe is that?
Beautiful cover <3
get haters to stop watching by thirsting over a bodybuilding fascist for 3 minutes
I will now always picture Riley Dennis as a militant Timelord who destroys Sparta, Rome and other Shitlord-topias.
i've been binge watching your videos all night and now it's 7 am...wow
I thought I lost my shit at the 'My favourite things' homage.  Then came the ASMR segment.  I love you.
Not sure exactly why this grabbed me so much but I've now watched your Gold Dust Woman cover 3 times in a row and I just think it's beautiful
💖💖💖🖤💖💖
I think the last thing I took seriously (or at least enjoyed) from Camille Paglia was her commentary track for 1992's Basic Instinct. It was definitely the last time I thought about her at all.
im sorry but is this a male or a female (all is well, just asking)
All this time, I thought "decadence" was just a synonym for fancy...
A debate between you and Blaire White would be entertaining
i want to play piano like that
why are you so smart.
love your costumes
please dont smoke its bad for you
Theres a lot of people between the fash and commies and outside of them
Pretty uncharitable with Nietzsche, but other than that, great video.
I love the song at 14:24! Please make a full version of it :)
P.S. I love you singing. Thank you 
I genuinely used to watch the golden one a few years ago. He's gotten much more Nazi as of late tho it would appear. To my memory he used to always have some kind of right wing spin but wasn't nearly as blatant about it as he's shown now. Sad that more people are becoming radicalized, or at least are able to more freely express their more fascist ideas
You’re terribly clever, and I love it!
As a classicist, I thoroughly hate that woman.
I'm 2:40 in and this is now the best video on internet.
I find a comment from Jim F*cking Sterling, son but none from Riley? I hope I didn't overlook it if that's the case, that'd be such a shame~
I never knew how much I needed "Degenerate Things" in my life. Please, someone either finish this song, or point me to where someone else already has!
I just discovered you thru some research on InCels, and I gotta say that I love your wit! Keep doing your thing:)
When you do that soft, quiet voice with music, it's actually very soothing. But I lolled so hard when you knocked over the glass.
Regarding your drinking advice I have to add this:  For best drinking experience I recommend drinking your favorite alcoholic beverage while eating delicious homemade cooked food. Better yet, by using this method you can drink multiple kinds of alcoholic beverages (assuming you don't try to make some strange cocktail). And best of all, after you're done you'll have the best nap of your life.
I just find it funny that you're video on him get more views than his own videos
Lars? As in Lars Ulrich? +ContraPoints.
that cover of gold dust woman in the end was marvellous.
I would totally buy your CD with your songs
yes
I really love how you've seen every bad thing society says about queer people and essentially replied "Yeah, that's me. What of it?!"
Hey! <3 Why you never talk about Preciado? <3 I think it would be such an amazing episode!
The biggest damn thing that's blowing my mind is… just how fucking sad their existence has to be if all they care about is procreation of the race or whatever.
Woah, the "message to the youtube moderator" works I guess?
Contrapoint your my favorite Degenerate please don't so being a degenerate
Degeneracy is when two quantum particles occupy the same energetic state, this video does not mention this *at all*.
Abigail, what is your damage?
I WANT THAT BATHING SUIT NOOOOOOOW
Tsk tsk. Still got demonitized.
I had always thought of the word degenerate as the opposite of regenerate. To regenerate is to heal, to degenerate is to get sick or decline in health, basically.   I had no idea the word had such nasty roots
"Condoms and orgies and mass immigration. Malt liquor 40s and miscegenation. Boys who use dildos and girls with cock rings, these are my favorite degenerate things." I died when I got to that.
your concise reaction to camille paglia talking is the best.
I'll just leave this video here: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=l3J951qzvzo
That’s not how you do absinthe, you poor the absinthe into the glass first and then do the sugar cube on the spoon thing, and drip water on the sugar, dissolving it.That’s what creates the louche effect.
Just got an item in a game that I had been trying to get for AGES while listening to this. I'm gonna say it's because of you. Thanks Natalie!
That ending piece should be a hymn for us "degenerates"  Perfectly stated.
What is so silly about Paglia...is SHE has identified as trans, and she is lesbian from my understanding.  So....self hater?
OMG king cobra was what i was drinking up until i figured out i was trans
I blame the thujone in your absinthe for YOU CALLING CAMILLE PAGLIA A FEMINIST!!! PS. Still crushing on your brilliance despite this mistake PSS. You have to work on your "stick technique" - you gotta shake your baton with more fervour, Maestra.
I have those goggles. Weird.
Not entirely fair to pick some Stalinist document from the seventies and take that as proof for communists being anti-LGBTQ+.
You forgot hentai!!!
Omg that song at the end ❤️
"Those are my degenerate things". Girl, you need to make a video of this song (if it's not already done).
Anyone else fast forward through C*amille P*glia's speech?
Fuckboy Philosophy had me DEAD
Oh you are a fucking Degenerate,  but I completed Huniepop so who am I to judge.   Point is we're all degenerates, life sucks and we're all going to die so fuck it.
omgg when camille paglia popped up 😂😂 i can't with this channel i love it so much
I’m surprised you didn’t make a joke about Brunhilda being Siegfried’s double aunt
Honestly, I hate it that you didn't light the sugar cube on fire.
every time I watch a ContraPoints video I leave feeling like I just stepped out of an actual theatre
The irony is that Nietzsche's ancestors were polish nobility, he hated antisemitism, suggested germans should breed with jews, and predicted that his philosophy would be bastardized in the name of Fascism. The Genealogy of Morals is pretty pro-fascist but his views kept evolving and changing as his career went on and his shit was alot more nuanced and complex than just "fuck you weak ass christians, be strong fascists."
Im so fucked what the fuck what's going on
To say that that communist writing from the 1970s is representative of the current communist/leftist philosophy and attitudes on queerness and the LGBTQ+ community is a little misleading.
9:42 this person says "OK" a lot
Fuck it up nat!! I started watching last night, now 4+ hours of content later i can say that i really enjoy hearing your perspectives, and the style you employ is really intriguing! Keep it up ya femme fuck!!!
I had no idea’s that Wagner’s anti-semite article was published under the psuedonym “free thought”, the modern-day parallel is ominous
Woo! antifa furry callout <3
What's with the belching ?
Good content. No. GREAT CONTENT.
"We must make babies, making babies is the only thing which is not degenerate. Degenerates are a risk to survival!"  "Well, with climate change, increasing the population irresponsibly would be detrimental to survival..." "... Climate change is fake..."   Every time lol
I am a proud degenerate
oh lawd, when you break out the King Cobra
Please tell me there's a full version of that parody song.  That I can buy and download.
I’ve fallen so in love with this channel, oh my god
that Gold Dust Woman tho, mpphhhh
The golden one annoying af, but cute as shit
i efffing lurrrrve you!!!!!!!!!!!!! thank you for this! degenerate decadent queer kisses 😘
Yay degeneracy
D-Generation X!
Whoa! What a babe! :OOOO
Shoulda chugged the 40. I love the gold dust woman cover.
Degenerate: "an immoral or corrupt person." Degenerate: "having lost the physical, mental, or moral qualities considered normal and desirable; showing evidence of decline." Degenerates are the exact opposite of traditionalism which the Americas and Canada were built on. When something isn't fit into "Old America" it listed as Degeneracy, like Gays, Trans, Commies, and immodesty (Thots and sluts). The people who usually tend to be against these things are the Christian Conservative (or the average person). You going into depth is like saying that every 15 year old who says "Faggot" is also sub-consciously meaning that he hopes every gay person in put into a concentration camp.
Huh. Apparently, Im a degenerate. Well whaddaya know.
In a recent interview with Daddy Peterson, Camille Paglia makes a passing remark that they identify as trans. Hadn't heard of them before your inclusion of their lecture so thanks
"To the Fascists, the pursuit of individual happiness must be subservient to the health and success of the race". And THAT is the reason why I can't look at the right the same way anymore. I still have my right wing views, but having to live my life just for the sake of THE RACE is bs. My happiness comes first. What has THE RACE ever done for me except tell me how to live my life?
Damn, those pipes are something. Keep being a legend cp.
Great point of Traditionalism skewing more collectivist and liberalism more towards individualism.
Can I get that favorite thing remix on iTunes?
Fuck does this mean I can’t listen to Ride of the Vallyries anymore?
When the Golden One calls himself the Ever Chosen of the Gods is referring to Warhammer?
Recently found your channel and I must say I love what i've found! Keep up the wonderful work!!
I don't know about the rest of you, but I LOVE crossing my blood.
11:00 the rebuttal is literally a joke. The rape and other crime statistic associated to imigrants nationality is not a dressed.
You crazy
I love your bathing suit.
You are super pretty and intelligent.  I hope you find love and happiness one day, you deserve it.
Yes!  Thank you!!!  Fuck Nietzsche!
HAIL DECADENCE!!!
I’ve choked on my food twice and I’m only 3 minutes in. This might be the funniest of your videos.  “Oh, well. It’s your loss, baby girl.”
why are you so fucking pretty!?! MOTHERFUCK.
A friend recommended this channel to me.  Honestly I couldn't help but laugh my ass off.  This is hilarious.
I’m gonna need to shift up for this *cracks king cobra*
"Shhhhhh....   Go to sleep..."  😆
I lost it when she cracked the 40
14:17 I don't think you need to worry about births tbh.
You know, your voice is still too masculine for my taste. But keep sexualizing yourself, maybe it will work one day.
LMFAO this is genius
This the first of your videos I've watched, recommended to me by a friend after I wrote a thing about Junk vs Culture (why are plays considered culture but TV and movies considered trash, for example). I love your aesthetic, and your way of laying out the points of your subject are really unique and fun. Subbed!
Does this dude actually think he's a woman?
The Golden One is the kind of body builder who builds muscle for shape but actually isn't that strong all things considered.  If he keeps building up his upper body like that he'll be one of those bodybuilders who can't reach around to wipe his own ass
Yes, Cobra! Truly the king of malt liquor.
Straight people have no culture
contra do you grow weed? those lights
Obviously the myth of golden age, juvenoia and the idea that today's society doesn't measure up to days past is as old as humanity...
You don't like Nietsche? I guess you can't agree on everything with anyone, even someone like you that i agree on almost everything with - and that's okay.  But srly, he's not to blame for his crazy Nazi sister. He was all about self-determination not comformism.  Wagner had no clean record (as you yourself pointed out), he was a product of a very ugly time,  but in the end he was a romanticist, a message in his workls was that power is evil and love is good.   The Nazis themselves did this massive rebranding campaighn to make it look like all of Germany's cultural legacy was in line with their ideology, similar to today's "America was always a Christian Country" hogwash. They staked claim on things that didn't belong to them while casing all artists and intellectuals out of Germany.
I need a full version of the Degenerate song so I can sing it at work.
Can we get a boxset of everytime you sing? You're soooooo damn good!
This is completely irrelevant to the subject but I need to ask. The pink lipstick (the one going with the pink hair) would you mind telling me which one that is? I want that one tooooo :))
fuck nietzsche
Diagusting...
I'm waaaay late to the party, but when are you gonna put out an album? Seriously. Rockin' it.
wtf
How did I end up here
Does it make me a bad person if i only watch golden ones be cause he's fucking hot as fuck lol
16:00 Great. Now I want ContraPoints ASMR.
Just ordered a "Pure Degeneracy" t-shirt!! YUSS!!! 1st time ever buying a YouTuber's merch. Thank you @Contrapoints!!
THE GOLDEN ONE RESPONDED TO THIS
Good times create weak men.
"enby drag kings" thanks for the shoutout! :D
First Patron: “George Soros”
AMAZING
Gee I wonder why this is age restricted lol
I love the quality of your videos. Probably the only trans thing I feel I can relate to these days. Or I'm just regaining my connection with a group of ppl ive abandoned as of late. (Complicated story)   Your videos have helped me deal with myself. They are also very funny and stuff.
why did you make the terf the hottest one you are confusing my emotions
When people call you a "degenerate," they simply mean that you are offending their sense of propriety, and engaging in potentially self-destructive behaviors.
Half of me is sitting here, nodding along to the points and appreciating the thought and research that went into this video. The other half of me just wants all of Natalie's clothes and accessories.
I ship it. ;)))
Contrapoints X GoldenOne is the best ship. The great unholy marriage that would make nazbol gang proud.
Yo Nat, don't let yourself get dragged into the ridiculously untrue Hetero narrative that Queer people don't have or haven't always had their own biological kids.  NEWSFLASH: It's entirely possible to procreate with people you're not attracted to.  Wow.
When does your album come out?
Friends just introduced me to this channel and you make a few very good points that need to be said, also your songs are beautiful <3
Everyone on the political spectrum hates degenerates, because degenerates have freed themselves from the shackles of  christian, slave morality. Fascists and tankies are pretty much trapped into this morality, but afraid to admit it, so they just lash out on queers and hedonists. And this is my drunk, queer interpretation of Nietzsche.
Whew!!! Preach sister!!!
We need a playlist of just funny out-of-context clips.
I wonder if the Golden One has ever watched these
"Bünhilde to your Sigfried" didn't Brünhilde end up killing her lover or some shit like that?
In my weird tiny Yiddish academic circles the connection between “kveerkeit” and Yiddishkeit. Now just imagine how annoyed the facists will be when they come up against a bunch of queer left wing Jews who have an Abba Kovner complex
Pleeease get on Rubin's show, I would be so happy lol
I love seeing a lot of dislikes on videos like this. It let's me know alt right jimmies have been effectively rustled. Big ups!
Contrapoints is the fairest maiden of them all.
"The queer quest is to survive; the fascist quest is to be the only survivor."  this line is fantastic
had to close the vid as I was twice too close to punching my screen.
more singing, please!
Well Nietzsche attacks both slave and master morality to show that morality is stupid either way.
You had me at absinthe.
You MUST write a monologue that involves you talking and singing!!!! PLEASE!!!!
I really like your version of Gold Dust Woman.
Love Gold Dust Woman!
Best song ever, by the way. I need this as my ringtone!
A rocky horror reference! This made me unbelievably happy.
This is like watching a fucking Kubrick film 👍
Libertarians don't hate decadence or queerness. (not usually anyway)
ContraPoints is the kind of degenerate I want to be when I grow up.
it's okay Natalie, i'm a degenerate too <3 will you watch My Little Pony: Friendship is Magic, with me? Fluttershy is best pony ^.^ even though i'm not an animal lover, i relate to FS because we both have glossophobia and i have like minor (self-diagnosed) social anxiety, possibly linked to my High-Functioning Asperger's Syndrome.   sorry if i'm off topic, i just wanted to say hi, but i didn't have anything else to contribute because i don't oppose anything you said in the video. it was a very wonderful video with fun moments of bath time, and i also approve of your ironic use of the MLG airhorn smoke weed everyday meme. you're beautiful, Natalie, i wuv u <3   P.S. rock n roll, and... DUBSTEP? :D waaaaaWUB-W-WA-WUB-WA-WUB
Contrapoints, I love you, but why did you put Zizek there? 18:56 DPN'T TALK SHIT ABOUT ZIZEK OR WE GONNA HAVE A PROBLEM!!! D:< THAT MAN IS THE TWITCHY MESSIAH!
every time you show that big, swedish dude i want to kick the shit out of him
these videos are usually pretty out there, but they honestly make me think and at least once per video i start laughing so hard i have to pause
Contrapoints, I think this is your best ever video. Honestly 10x better than your previous best, the first one about GoldenOne.
You make me laugh 😂
Am in some kind of alternate reality or something?   WHAT IS THIS?!?!
Lol why is this age restricted?
Natalie, dear lady, please don't abuse absinthe so. Pour the liquor into the glass, place the spoon and the sugar on the glass, then drip ice cold water into the glass over the sugar. That will produce the the change in the liquor that causes its nose to open and the liquor to turn into silver clouds of glorious perfection. A corojo cigar is a perfect compliment, as is dark, bitter chocolate.  Respect your vices. Your virtues may let you down. Your vices never will.
you're like everything I wanted to be...(awesome). great now I have get new goals.
Best one!
How am I supposed to take this seriously? hahaha
I'm not up to date on my philosophy. Why was there a picture of Slavoj Zizek during the communist party's denouncement of gay people?
There are, like, reasons why Rome collapsed. Like the expansion of new agricultural trends and Central Asian instability. And the lessened emphasis on Italy after the founding of Constantinople, which was immensely strategically important. Got nothing to do with the Germans being more manly than the Romans. In fact, they were far less patriarchal, which the Romans mocked them over for like 500 years, calling them emasculated and all this same nonsense.
I've only just come across this degenerate's videos, and I'm not exactly sure what I just watched, but I know one thing...    ...subscribed
Something you might want to keep in mind when thinking about the Romans, before the collapse the Western Romans looked less favorably upon the Eastern Romans for being to effeminate in a lot of ways, the Eastern Romans were less war prone, bathed more, and favored trade and diplomacy more; and a myriad of other things.
This is still my favorite contra vid
I really like all the callbacks to your older videos in this one.
ur vids give me hope
I need more degeneracy in my life <3
The Soviet communists also used the word decadent a lot. To refer to people who lived a comfortable life under capitalism. This included gay people, who contrary to popular belief the communists didn't tolerate. Just saying.
You have extremely high production value.
Show me the way, mommy.
Contrap
Don't lecture me on drinking and driving - this is America and we do what we want...
Gosh your singing voice at the end is fantastic! You sound like a rockstar, Natalie!
This historical explanation of yours was extremely poor and anti factual. You didn't disprove that profoundly bad and insane emperor's like Caligula, Nero or Commodus didn't cause great harm to the Empire that contributed to its demise.
15:21 So that's why I don't drink then. Huh.
16:27 I saw what you did there...
11:29 Incidentally, that picture of Riley is absolutely adorable.
omg the candle wax asmr slayed the shit out of me
Nietzche actually said we should discard master AND slave morality and was more close to Stirner than a fascist.
If you make a t-shirt that says, "Fuck you, Nietzsche." I will totally buy it.
...isn't Paglia also trans now?  She (he?) is a better writer than speaker.
wow that 70s US commie newsletter. US communism was sucky then too. hell even Castro was onboard for that bull, luckily the party evolved & now Cuba has a national anti homophobia day.
I like the video! Yet, i think you glossed over Neitzsche too easily to keep your definition of decadence. Few of Neitzsche's writing like "Twilight of of the Idols" and "Beyond Good and Evil" show that decadence is a lack of moral values or at least not questioning one's values and following the herd mentality. Walter Kaufman is a good translator if you want to do a future video on Nietzsche.
natalie, you're a gold dust woman
join the 56%
I'm an edgy 19 year old and my favourite philosopher isn't Nitsczhe. It's Bukowski. Not the guy, the modest mouse song. Ergo your whole premise is flawed
Twinks killed society the hottest take
There are like . . . No fascists. You are nuts.
You crazy fringe groups are nuts. Get help.
God you just scream social justice warrior. So you know the origins of a word. Perhaps you should concentrate on the definition. And noT every one is a fascisT whom disagrees with you.
14:24 one of the malayalam movies I watched had a song set to that tune. Never knew it was from. thanks for including the source in the cc’s, natalie  also excellent video as always
I SHIP YOU TWO SO HARD
Degeneracy is a thing. Reminds me of living in trailers with thirty screaming kids and living off government assistance. It is real. Its the direct effect of no work and no education. These are things that can be helped. Queers fucking themselves with cucumbers is not a problem and can’t be helped. I also like drugs and sex orgies. Side note: mass immigration is just an awful idea, folks.
has rubin invited you on his show yet?
There's this wonderful place in Poland for your kind.....Auschwitz
Wow. What a time to be alive
I've just find you, even though I've been subscribed to Shaun HBomberGuy for a while now. I wanna tell you that you're probably the most... Fun, of the bunch.
"you little homos are future cannon fodder"  poor guy, i think he meant we're fodder for making him shoot his cannon.
I love you
can anyone do me a favour and ID the music playing just at the begining? its driving me mad.. i think  its maybe from swan lake or the nutcracker but i cant remember.. mucho apreech
Irresponsible handling of Neitzche's ideas led to fascism, not the ideas themselves. You can't just brush him off as another racist when he on many occasions ridiculed antisemites and racists. Some of his ideas were used in a negative way, but this happens to every philosopher. Stalin used Marx and Lenin's ideas to justify his horrible dictatorship too, that doesn't mean that communism is bad.
You handle Neitzche's philosophy very irresponsibly.
How the hell the alt-right can control 4chan while spouting "degeneracy" baffles me.
Wait...calling someone a degenerate is criticism? I call people this as a complement.
She is so good. My favorite youtuber now. Your so awesome contra points!
I want a full version of the degenerate song soooo badly
Let's be honest, Contra. The alcohol isn't going away anytime soon, is it.
Who was Camille Paglia running away from moments before recording that
Fuuuk is a trap!
you're a genuine inspiration and your presence is a balm to my raging dysphoria <3
girl, you need to hit the squat rack and get THICC
Pleasing to slaanesh
Camille Paglia in her representation of Greek statues ignores the most common Archaic type of statue the Kouroi, young boys, and the more Late Classical and Hellenistic art, towards the end of Greek cultural dominance and their supplanting by the Romans in the eastern Med is when you get the more manly looking dudes, like the Laocoon and his sons, or the Boxer at Rest.  So if you want to be so reductionist and subscribe to grand narratives about it you could say that an ultra masculine ideal in art is a sign of the end of a civilisation
my favourite contra video ❤
I need a soothing hot degenerate bath now
Filthy Qs
There's a socialist organization in Canada that is against the independence of Catalonia, and another socialist organization, right beside it, that is for it. I wouldn't use Engels as a bible here and claim that because Engels said it, everyone against capitalism and pro communism/socialism is aut.... do I have to write this or does everyone already know this?
I remember seeing that Camille Paglia speech years ago and never finding it again. I honestly thought I'd dreamed it.
That's a.... huh... Nice outfit you got there... mh.
I've been looking for that song at approx 1:42, but I only find other versions of it. Wife hates when I put such songs on when she's lying in bed reading because she knows what's coming!
OOH! THIS ONE ALSO HAS HER BEST SINGING!
this is way more interesting than i remember, glad i decided to re watch, worth it.
Degeneracy is a thing, butttttt it has very very specific criteria and most of the times it is used terribly because you can't subjectively measure degeneracy on a person to person basis because that is always subjective 99% of the time because no one is inherently objectively "bad". Capitalism is for example degenerate for objectively solid reasons. subjective reasoning that most goofy right wingers use is awful
you break the 4th wall like nobody else
A Contra video on Degeneracy, and ending with a cover of Fleetwood Mac?  How can I like this more then once.
can we just get a contrapoints coversong channel plz?
THAT IS NOT HOW YOU ABSINTHE YOU DRIP COLD WATER THROUGH THE SUGAR CUBE INTO THE ABSINTHE >:(
I had a really orgasmic sex dream about you and the Golden One last night
You are a hero, keep up the good work! I am Swedish myself and can't fucking stand that bigoted roided up freak The Golden One. To me he is more like the SHIT one hahahah
It´s a bit fun i just came here from reading a debate on hi´s channel (i just reading those debates for fun, not because i seriously care)... At least this saved my day... :D  I love Your video as always! Cheers! <3
Though the sands of time continue to spill, though the winds themselves change and die, there will always be an eternal truth, immortal, immune from the ravages of those falling grains:  Goldenboi thicc
Why does Patrons have the ((())) around it? I thought that was an old racist way to subtly imply inferiority of Jewish people?
This is a work of fucking genius.
You forgot to mention how single moms and "sluts"  (aka a woman thats had sex outside of marriage to a lot of these alt right people..) are both often referred to as degenerate by many of these youtubers. Any sexual behaviour that isnt "the norm" (bdsm, anal, etc.) is also called degenerate a lot too
Too muscular for me ...probably because I'm a lesbian or something
Clockwork Orange 2.0
What's the phrase? X is not a monolith?
What the fuck did I just watch
The ASMR bit was just 👌
You both take extra hormones, youre a perfect match:) great vids
u really are degenerate
This video gives me the same feeling I get when I watch A Clockwork Orange.
I like watching Contra because when I'm viewing one of her videos I feel like I'm doing something illegal or seeing something I shouldn't be. And that's thrilling. Also the videos seem to have a mix in tone between cinematic and dreamlike. There's def no other YouTuber like her.
The Golden One looks like a hippie degenerate with that long hair.
The Golden One looks like a hippie degenerate with that long hair.
Why so critical of Nietzsche? I think his ideas presented in TSZ and BGaE and so on are quite appealing, master or slave morality are both wrong and we should strive to go beyond that no? Zizek tho <3
This is incredible! You are just as intelligent as u r weird <3
My favourite stud!!  No, not that beta golden shower. I'm talking about the one and only ContraPoints!  Thank you very much for making me look at some things differently and getting me  away from this fascist trap that I was tip toeing for a while now.
Where are your sources? Just curious.
such a lovly personality :) and soo intelligent too!! <3 you are the besssst :D
I'm going to call this degenerate art but don't you dare call me a Nazi. Because I'm a ethnic nationalist and I love people of all races except for you sub-human plebeian neo-Marxist Judenrat lugenpresse *arm shoots up in a Hitlergrauß* Scheiße!  But as I was saying, with the proper breeding techniques and a ratio of say... ten females to every male...
Watching for the Fleetwood Mac cover
Wait a minute!  I thought decadent just meant that something was ten years old...
"latin words are literal in their definitions, just like how all our words are literal when broken into their constituent parts'
Queer degenerates can't fight? Have these guys never heard of Alexander the Great, Julius Caesar, Hadrian, Friedrich II of Prussia, Ashoka the Great, or actually anyone in ancient Rome, ancient Greek, ancient Egypt, ancient Japan, the Seleunid and Sassanid Empire, the Mogul Empire... ?
The communist newpaper calling homosexiality degenerate is probably an attempt to adhere to the party line of КПСС: Soviet Union was pretty social conservative during and after stalinism.
Ahahaha, Swedish Ken Doll.
Why do all your videos have some clip that subtley makes me want to get it on with that Nazi bear?
For the golden one. It's ok for men to reduce them selves to sexual objects but not for women
why tf does this asshat have the flag of the kalmar union, a time during which his country was under the rule of a foreign king
The great thing about this video is that Contra is clearly having so much fun with it.
2:59 my favorite part of the whole video
Random question here: Who are the other two queer absinthe swilling artists in the line up, I know one is Oscar Wilde(R) and I think Walt Whitman(C) who's on the left? If anyone could help me, because I know it's gonna be one of those itches in my brain that will bug me until I find out.
A CIS male calling you AWESOME!!!! not that it matters that I'm CIS, I just thought you should know.
I think my boyfriend is a fascist. I'm gonna puke.
It's really not about the "Fascists". On the contrary, it's just that if we want to keep our decadence, we cannot have Muslims pouring into Europe in such numbers they'll be running the show.
What they call degeneracy, I call civilization.
"drops glass" *could the jews be responsible?*
Communism and fascism are the same thing. The EXACT same.
Hello, Contrapoints, I truly love your videos. Deeply poetic, in many places. By the way, mystical friend, you would be happy to know, Nietzsche was and is not as you think. There are literally millions of masks at work in the works of Nietzsche, behind every philosophy another philosophy. If you read more Nietzsche, you will find a friend. If you don't believe me, message my channel, I will tell you.
...Is that a Hotline Miami song in the background, or does it just really sound like one?
Gotta say -- I really do admire your videos in a strange, repulsed, but, mesmerized way. Though I find it inimical to my ideal, I give you credit for making perhaps some of the best-made content on this platform. When the fascist revolution comes, you'll be well compensated in your role as director/curator of The Museum of Degenerate Art
Clever, hilarious, revelatory plus you're one gifted singer.   On a side note I've been using the word "degenerate" for while now because according to Google definition it means "impure it corrupt" . I have applying it to criticize alt-righters, Trump & co. Not before I saw your video did I know its etymology. Appreciate the video to put things into perspective.
He looks almost exactly like the "Dream Guy" I drew when I was little and thought I liked boys omg
I am torn. I hate the degeneracy and decadence displaced, but I love how you use it to troll people and your memes are actually funny. I hate your views but I love the information you provided on the topic.
These videos are so weird in black and white
P I N K  F L A M I N G O S
I do not know if this means anything to you but i find you very attractive.
I remember in like 4th grade some girl said that she put a 3ds game into her ds and now it only plays 3ds games and I told her that she's lying because that's physically impossible and she started crying and told the teacher I was bullying her and the teacher made me stay inside for recess
Awww You're one of my favorite degenerate things too ❤️
Hahaha 💖
Kierkegaard proposed three stages of life: the aesthetic, the ethical, and the religious.  One moves from the first, over time, to the latter.  Degeneracy means being caught in the first mode, made a slave to the continuing thirst for the aesthetical pleasures, while renouncing they ascetical.  We move from a love of pleasure into a more complete love of one's fellow man: "Since love grows within you, so beauty grows. For love is the beauty of the soul."  "Every man who knocks on the door of a brothel is looking for God.”  TGO is as degenerate as anything you do, but he merely worships a different idol. Where you devote your attention to the bohemian, transgressive vision, he devotes his attention to a prideful Nordic narcissism.
Love your videos and how you address the strawmen the alt-right/conservatives/fascists put out. Would love to watch you debate Stefan Molyneux of Freedomain Radio or do a video about him.
Laughing my barely there tits off at the overlay of Slavoj Zizek
omg #degeneratesluts
I've said it before and I'll say it again: the "Golden One" looks like somebody badly Photoshopped his head on. It just doesn't go with the rest of his body.
Shudder.  I choose the glorious pill, not the demonic ways of a man lady.
The natalist tendency in neo-nazism isn't new, the OG Nazis also had their Lebensborn and Cross of Honor of the German Mother and other such things.
That pink wig though .... hmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmm
So let me get this straight, any accusation of degeneracy is intrinsically wrong ? What if I called a pedophile a degenerate ? What if I called a rapist a degenerate ? According to your logic, I guess I am a fascist.
you almost got it. the truth is that any society infected with jewish usury has always failed because of it. jewish banking practices are predatory and evil.
Yeah, you’re a degenerate that should be thrown in some sort of hard labor camp until you stop thinking you’re a broad.
Can someone explain why the word Patreon has Triple Parentheses (The Anti-Semitic echo)
I know it was a joke, but grills are something that 8 rappers wore in the 2000's, I don't think it's part of the culture.
Noone is gonna mention the amazing credit solo?
pretty gay
What a great singer omg
<3
These are my favourite degenerate things... brilliant
Interestingly, there are actually contexts in which using the word "degenerate" is acceptable and has nothing to do with fascism. That is in mathematics there are what we call degenerate solutions to equations, i.e. such as (x-1)^3=0 has a doubly degenerate solution at x=1, or in physics you can have degenerate quantum states which share the same energy level, and also there's degenerate perturbation theory. And i believe i've heard it in other sciences such as biology, it's really quite a useful word if you separate it from the historical connotations of pseudoscientific racism and fascism. Just an interesting little tidbit, it's pretty random and unrelated but there it is.  Anyway, great video, and oh yeah, i loved the musical bits, too bad you didn't make a full length song out of it.
I kind of love Gibbon's "Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire," far less as an actual historical record and more as a story. It's entertainingly written, and it gives a lot of insight into the frame of mind of a lot of Anglophone enlightenment types.  I find it odd that their takeaway from the work was so heavily focused on the degeneracy of emperors, when Gibbon himself basically argued that the tradition of the political military essentially began the slow bleed of decline.
i laughed hysterically through like 40% of this video
riley j dennis WHY DID YOU DESTROY ANCIENT ROME? i'm ugly laughing
Oh. My. God. I lost it at you dressed as Anita Sarkeesian. I hope you were wearing hoop earrings!
Great, great video! But I demand a full length version of "this are my favorite degenerate things", that was the best thing in the history of ever.
"Riley J Dennis, Why did you destroy ancient Rome?" I JUST BUSTED OUT LAUGHING HOW THE FUCK DID YOU SAY THAT WITH A STRAIGHT FACE OH MY GOD YOURE FANTASTIC
that gold dust woman cover tho
I'd love to be degenerate with you...I'd love that so so so much!!!
My goodness you are so fucking sexy
I wish I could put more than one like on a video. The disrobing to HEART scene gets me every time.
'Patrons: George Soros' Haha I love the subtle humour :)
I fucking love her so much.
Please run for president in 2020
tf did I jus watch
This video was my introduction to Contrapoints. Super funny and weird, plus I Learned Something.
I will make every family nuclear. With nukes, of course.
I think I was going to nut when I heard you use the word enby causally or more likely cry from joy but it was just nice to hear
Your house/apartment/whatever is so rad!!! Kudos to the set design!!!
I actually read an interesting paper in my personality theory class that relates to this. They were looking at political stances from a perspective of moral foundations theory and the biggest common thread in conservative stances was a heavy emphasis on purity/sanctity followed by in-group/loyalty. By contrast Liberals tended to emphasize Harm and Fairness.
The funniest thing is that Nazi breeding ground 4chan is probably the most "degenerate" place ever to exist, and that's not an understatement. Sometimes I think they're trying to hide their own guilt. I also think its funny that Nazis imagine if we let consenting adults do what they want with each other society it will turn into a massive eternal orgy that spills onto the streets. I mean, they've obviously never had sex with most men because I can tell you the orgy would last 15 minutes at most.
Hot.
Hahaha you are fucking awesome!
Also according to Richard Carrier, Ph. D (History with a concentration on the Early Roman Empire) places the collapse at about 276 AD following the 50 year civil war and collapse of the economy (which didn't end until the early 300s AD with Constantine). Also, fun fact the Roman Empire failed because it became more fascist and instituted draconian laws and the death penalty for everything
Omg. You keep hyping him up. He's so seductive agh. Now I'm falling prey to the white ethno-state. Hail Victory lol jk   But seriously I've never even heard of him until I saw him in your video and it's scary how seductive he is. Like he's a generally nice guy but his opinions are odious.   It's like he **** you but puts lube first so it goes down smooth.
So as always no one can argue against you without being a latent nazi?
>antifa furries  oh my god yes please
Tag yourself, I'm an antifa furry. Also I wish Contra was nicer to daddy Nietzsche :( (Jk I love him but he is DEFINITELY not above a whole lotta critique)
I loved all the musical numbers in this entire video
Oh my god bless you. This is beautiful, you are Bae ♡ holy fuck
You are my favorite degenerate Thing
You truly are ammmaaaazzzziiinngg My degenerate Queen Hail Caligula!
Okay but I know I'm late to the party but I have a desperate all consuming need to know where, exactly, ContraPoints got that sheer top she wears throughout the video.  I need it for... decadent reasons.
Once more, this is proof that the so-called 'intellectual' side of Fascism is in fact built on sand, and is so fragile that you can completely disprove it on Youtube in 30 minutes or less.
There's really no ent to how awful Camille Paglia is.
I love being a decadent, degenerate queer nonconformist. Also, you've got a good rock-and-roll voice.
You are very entertaining and I would love to bullshit over beers with you. I am a right leaning authoritarian type but also worked at gay bar when young and I find these subtle but powerful differences fascinating. I am very "cis hetero" but also very empathic.... what I really appreciate is smarts and the ability to "walk a mile in someone else's mocassins" which you have, obviously. You would be a fun and interesting friend.
GUISE! FELLOW CONTRAPOINTS FANGIRLS! I'm posting Mr. Dudely's response to this vid, just in case y'all missed it. https://www.youtube.com/watch?time_continue=2&v=hygx_lgmwgc  Pleasepleaseplease somebody make some fan art. I want the t-shirt  <3
This video is like a ContraPoints greatest hits album in the best way possible. It's great.
13:26 "Poles... are degenerate elements that contribute to decay" - it's a big historical inaccuracy: this was not a Hitler's or the Third Reich's position before 1939; the Third Reich's ideology had been evolving to suit the current year; to hear the whole story, I recommend the video titled "Pakt Ribbentrop-Beck/Prof. Pawel Wieczorkiewicz" on the 'wiosnaidzie' channel;  it's in Polish language; Pawel Wieczorkiewicz is professor of history at Warsaw University, Poland
Not only american communists were homophobic. In USSR homosexualism was a crime (you could get 5 years behind the bars) and in stalin times it was strongly asociated with pedophilia. And yes, i'm not counting short period of sexual emansipation in 20's.
I would say that all haters are jealous but in contrapoints case, all that guys sending  toxic messages secretly want to get contrapoints in bed and can't understand their feelings for a smart beautiful woman who used to be a man and I'm talking about cult of the lich (how many messages has he left in the comments first entry)
so nice to hear you sing on key! You are the best human on the internet
I want to be your beefy stud Contrapoints
I like this remake of Rocky Horror Picture Show, maybe too political though.
What are you
Well said.
Fascists don't want to kill people not like them they just don't want them to be in control.  I don't want to rule over anyone or kill anyone I just don't want to live around them or be subject to a government controlled by them.  I want separation and yes I have no problem with individual homosexuals I just don't want to see it.
15:15 That TERF sounds like Trump.
It was a tolerable video till the rock and roll. That is something I will never appreciate.
Wardrobe game LIT
We could simply define degeneracy as behavior which goes against generation. A preoccupation with non-procreative sexual activities leads to a lack of generation. Now there is the more metaphoric use wherein you could talk about the degeneration of culture rather than the actual loss or replacement of the population. Let me ask you a question: Would it be accurate to describe the effect of white colonists on the native american population as degenerate?
I love it when you sing and play instruments, Nat! I really love your style and sense of music! <3 <3 <3
yeah man.. that isis comment.. its different... cultures with more 'old world' values are outbreeding all the more liberal cultures.. this is nothing to do with there being more brown vs white people but the values passed down through these family lines... ie the extreme conservative values...
My New Year's wish is that Contra gets on the Rubin Report.
Man I love you 😂
Please avoid avoiding the avoiding of confusing Nietzsche with his nazi sister.
You rock!!
Tatoo "Race Mixing, Sexual Anarchy and Rock and Roll" on my neck tbh
**I think her/his studio is some sort of museum.**
I wann eat ur brain this was so enjoyable
What an incredibly cool cover of gold dust woman!
@contrapoints please what is your aesthetic I can’t place it but it’s somewhere between French grandmother and British punk
I want to see you have a legitimate conversation with Jordan Peterson. I like you both, but I think you see a few things he doesn't, and I think that you're articulate enough and with enough status to actually get the opportunity to do it. Although I haven't really seen your thoughts on his main points as you two intersect at only a very areas, but you seem to have pretty strong opinions about free speech as a defense, and he's skating on the line of some things you describe. I'd like to see you tackle some of that, but I fear you two are in two different universes, and I have a decent respect for Jung, and I get the feeling you won't be as generous.
I really enjoy your videos. This was hilarious and quite educational.  21:16: "Patrons: George Soros" LMFAO!!
making fun of the golden one is what got me through 2017
i love both contra & riley so when she mentioned riley i was (am) eternally grateful for that
Subscribed for fucks sake. Youre fucking majestic!
Being decadent and/or trans is also Nitzschean. Living for actually existing other people instead of your own pleasure would also be Nitzschean, but living for an imaginary "race" is the ultimate slave morale.
Not understanding how the golden one uses the word “degenerate” smh
I kind of just want the "These Are My Favorite Degenerate Things" as a separate video, it's top tier
Were you pouring your drink over sugar?
OH FUCK. I SPILLED MY COFFEE FROM A LAUGHTER BURST WHEN I READ GEORGE SOROS. HAHAHA
Nietzche was cool, evidence suggests that his sister edited his work post-Morten to make it closer to Nazi ideology
Oh Natalie... I am so gay for you.
Transgender or not, I'd tap contra so hard
Can there be a full length dengenerate things music video for Xmas number one? Soundtrack to my revolution
So..... can you please show us your closet/ closets
<3<3<3<3<3
So when are we gonna see you do a duet with Stevie Nicks?  That would be awesome!
I see you tangle with the Cobra. Personally my favorite bum drink is Old English.
The fuck you Rubin part was a special sort of catharsis for me. Dude claims to be for free speech n only ever invites conservatives and occassionally alt-righters on his damn show.
who's that between Baudelaire and Wilde?? thx
Camile Paglia's arguments don't deserve to be argued against? That sounds more like laziness Contra.
Why king cobra? Olde English is sooo much better.
6:10 Between this and a recent Mr Robot scene, I need more late 80s/90s VHS/movie/TV aesthetics in my life.  I loved your channel before you showed up on TMBS and hope you show up there more. You're one of the best!
The only societies that tolerate degenerates like Contra are Jewish owned White societies. There will be no room left for degenerates like Contra in a non-White society. What a cognitive dissonance. Degenerates with like Contra are digging their own grave and it is amusing to watch.
Latff
I frequently go from "wow, these are really interesting and well presented points" to "what the hell is going on?" in your videos.   I love it.
16:19 I legit started laughing holy fuck i needed that,,,  new viewer/subscriber but i’m already in love and look forward to seeing more of your stuff 💕
Even looking past the fact that you're a man in a wig. You still behave like a degenerate.
also: wrong. degeneracy comes from de- and genere/generare, which means "to develope".
well, contra, i'm really not sure whether to like or to hate you. since AM sure that that's at least part of what you're aiming for: congrats.
CP on Rubin is probably the only way I'd watch his show. Someone has to make this happen.
George Soros as the first contributer :DD
<nerd> Actually, Nietzsche's philosofy became affiliated with nazis only after his death, when his sister warped his ideas in order to appeal to NSDAP that was on the rise at the moment, sometimes turning the meaning of Friedrich's words 180 degrees </nerd>
Keep up the great videos. I am happy that people like you can pull through.
Is use of "degenerate" common irl in America or does it belong mainly to yt comments sections? I'm British and the only use of "degenerate" I have encountered was in our history lessons about Nazi Germany. We were told they banned jazz music because it was "degenerate" but I don't think the teacher ever explained what "degenerate" meant, or mentioned Jazz's African American history.
I love drugs
#thanksroyalty : you are degenerates if you do the same things we do but ...you know you aren't chosen by god sooooo ya
I can't handle absynthe.   I tried the real stuff in London a few years ago, and it nearly killed me.    I might as well shoot pure grain alcohol into my veins with a hypodermic needle.
Well, I _was_ watching porn but, eh, this'll do...
fascinating, your insight is excellent, sorry about your demons
MAKE A RESPONSE TO HIS RESPONSE PLS
This is the best!
>click this video >have diarrhea >shit myself when I hear the voice of OP >good job on making anon shit themself
I super love the Rocky Horror references.
After rewatching this, I really want to do a vaporwave remix of the degeneracy song.
i like how they admit that isis are there ideal of masculinity and how society should be stronger, by being like isis
Great video, Contra.  I will say, though, that while a superficial reading of Nietzsche does offer textual support for fascist ideologies, his genealogical critique of western values and assertion of humanity's radical subjectivity have also been considerably influential in leftist academic circles.  It is a great irony of his legacy, and a testament to his thought's depth, that his interpretation could be deployed to such politically antithetical ends.
Upvote if you want to see a discussion video between Contra and the golden one!  The Golden One made a response vid to this! He is actually very reasonable even though I completely disagree with his opinions. It would be pretty cool if you two had a discussion stream together since I think it is possible to actually talk with him. Change his view I’m not too positive about but at least you could plant a seed in him. I think he respects you Contra.
Sexual bolsheviks. Burgeois decadents. Sounds like an acceptable definition of most goths to me. And we do embrace decadent degeneracy.
Most fabulous video I ever seen
This channel is great!
"Never bathe with fascists"   This is my first video of yours and holy shit +1 subscriber, this is amazing!
I want to live in the word that fascists think we live in.
I AM SCREAMING THIS IS SO GOOOOOOD HAHAHAHAHAHAHAHA
<3
5:15 Isn't there an entire subculture of "hons", older trans women who don't pass
Was Nietzsche for Aristocracy? I find that hard to imagine. I mean, he had a few... alright, more than a few... ideas based on faulty, immaterial presumptions, but he always struck me as a realist and a rationalist when it came to face-value things. Such as: Aristocracy involves new generations inheriting their parents' position in society, thus it's not meritocratic, thus has no defense against degeneracy and corruption.
>5 minutes until the video starts  Because of course a transexual would try to hide what they really are.
HOLY SHIT YOU SELL WH40K SLANESHI T-SHIRTS ON YOUR T-SPRING SITE!!!!!!
degeneracy=happiness: stayed twisted.
In this one you have really surpassed yourself, both in comicity and pedagogy
But why are fruitless orgasms a "favorite thing"? Is the intent non-reproductive sex is a favorite thing or ruined orgasms are a favorite thing? (Not to be trying to pry too much into your sexual preferences, etc.)
3:38 "YAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAS"
Noice
IIRC Nnnnnnnnnn's words were fucked up by his antisemitic sister while he was dying.
You are a disgusting piece of shit, you are an abomination, the wrath of allah will surely be upon you and whatever filth you propagate.
Somewhere, detached from my body as it was, my dick is *so hard*
Contra, in spite of all the assholes misquoting him for edge- and/or white-pride purposes, we really need to have a talk about the father of post-modernism, Friedrich N. :P  (And quick Addendum - while I do think there is more to it than that, an argument could be constructed, that the general abhorence of decadence is atleast partly derived from a shall we say 'toxic' idea of associating 'purity' and 'asceticism' with masculine strength (i.e proliferation in the race for sexual partners/societal recognition through your ability to endure hardship - that thing we developed culture to endure less, if possible)  Also, cheers.
haha mental illness is so fun  you go girl
I feel so stupid watching your videos. I have to update my english and knowledge >_< Ily :3
Please, view Fracis Bacon and his theory of the four intellectual idols, for further intellectual observation and reporting. And deliberate accordingly w/out resorting to ad hominem displacements, thereby avoiding answering any astute question to delineate a certain level of competency of intellect your mind possesses.
I think you should respond to Philip Defranco! His views on race are really disheartening, and I think he falls into the category of being obsessed with being centrist and nothing else. He was on Rubin's show, and I feel like he sometimes caters to his shit viewers, who are incredibly toxic and bigoted.
YouTube sunburned your channel for me and this didn't appear in my sub box!   Good thing I decided to check up on my secret guilty pleasure ;p(-===3
"I don't know about the rest of these decedent sluts..." has become my new favourite quote
While I'm transgender and alt right, and I disagree with you, you get a like from me for how creatively produced your videos are!
Why is that feminist lady on tv speaking like she's porky pig. Can you stop fucking stammering every 4 seconds? Jesus.
the fact that the golden one responded to this made me laugh all the way to the moon
Queerness aside pride is is dumb and corporate showboating/virtue signalling or just an excuse to shove decadency in everyone's face I don't care what you do just don't do it in the town centre
I follow the philosophy of the golden one because it gives me focus and happiness in my life but I cannot deny the feud between the golden one and contrapoints is very funny
I need a video of Contra fursuiting
Dear Contrapoints, thank you for providing this awesome content and countering all the septic-sphere bullshit that is all too popular lately. Also thanks for making me feel awkward when I recommend you to my friends and then remember afterward about all the half-naked prancing that they will inevitably ask me about. But seriously, great content and keep pushing people's buttons while you're at it.
You are dress like girl, but you are boy
"Dingbats" is the best insult I've heard in my life. Thank you Contra.
The music made me exceedingly happy.
Watching your videos is like a fucking acid trip on leftism
Man, you were so close to not giving in, and then you did. You didn't want to not wear that grill, but you felt obliged to anyway. It's sad :c
Last night I literally dreamt that the Golden One repented and dissociated himself from fascism. Afterwards you two were finally able to date with a good conscience.  You haunt me in my dreams, Contra! Stop that! (Or don't...I am not sure!)  But anyways, you made a great couple in my head...where, you know, the Golden One also wasn’t a fucking fascist.
ContraPoints is so close to realizing the indescribable, transcendent beauty of the material and spiritual reality of non-negotiable male and female sex, that the tension is almost orgasmic.
I loved the song you performed at the end! :D
Yeah it's all fun and games until you hit 50.
Ms. Contrapoints, I would be very interested in hearing you do a history of "classical liberalism" in this same way. Where the term comes from, what it originally meant, what it means now, and why conservatives use it to describe themselves. I'm very curious about this point actually.
And if you're not down with that, we got two words for ya...
Just pure brilliance
ContraPoints is over here giving a more sympathetic and human portrayal of TERFs than TERFs - anyone else for that matter - have ever given trans women!
ContraPoints makes me want to not kill myself
This intro is long as fuck 4:54
Degeneracy is what happens when you get bored of normal pleasures and venture out into things that can dangerously backfire on you... and that eventually do.
If the best thing Europe has to offer is a conservative-body-building nazi, then I kinda get why they would think Europe is fucked up...
You're a man in his mid 30s who is pretending to be a woman and made a youtube channel to solely  express how you don't have the the self control to separate your self from male and animal genitalia. The sad thing is that this is the biggest accomplishment of your life. On behalf of the population that's still sane I apologize for people mistaking you for a degenerative human being.
I have no idea what this is, but I love it
i think it should be noted that nietzsche was explicitly against antisemitism. wagner's antiseminism was a factor in the straining of their relationship. he wrote letters condemning antiseminism. nietzsche's family maintained an archive of his work under the third reich which was misrepresented purposefully by nazi academics  t. jew
Don't worry Contra, we will not kill you when we come to power. We will just put you in forced therapy, so you will accept your biological gender ;-)
Stop victim-blaming the alcoholics.
18:00- 18:30 sick burn
You're my favorite anime waifu
First video I've ever watched of yours ....aaaaaaaaaand I'm hooked.  Funny, informative, and fascinating! (little jealous how cute you are in that curly pink wig though....) :P
Every Marxist-Leninist party I know of officially supports queer liberation nowadays. Only jackasses who are widely ostracized by active communists like the fellows at Marxist Memes call it bourgeois decadence
IT PUT'S THE LOTION ON IT'S SKIN!
Degeneracy is destructive behaviour, often selfish and hedonistic, that undermines a culture. There is a reason why most cultures at most time would beat degenerates like gays, transexuals and other sexual deviants to death with a club. Those that didn't would allow the degeneracy to spread and their group would self destruct, it's evolution baby, it doesn't give a fuck about your sensibilities. The west has become deeply degenerate and is falling apart from the inside. You would think the degenerates would try to work to save it since their lifestyles depend on it, but you'd be wrong. That would take self restraint, selflessness and sacrifice. The degenerates can only do what satisfies their own short term desires and addictions.
You were on the Michael Brooks show this week! I’ve been a fan of both you and the Majority Report crew for years, it was weird but awesome to hear the two of you having a conversation.
He's the millennial Swedish version of Rocky of RHPS
I thought Nazies ahem I mean Identitarians frowned upon smoking.
1. Awesome video 2. It's great to see camille paglia finally get some scorn!
I just noticed the Francis Bacon inspired poster. I need it.
I hate it when people say "this doesn't deserve a response" If people might be swayed by an argument no matter how preposterous, it needs to be responded to.
Degenerate: If you need it defined you are one.
First video I'm watching from this channel, pretty much instantly subscribed. Holy shit this is gr8.
Didn't light sugar cube on fire after pouring absinthe and let it drop. Fucking degenerate.
i love how the golden one responded to this with a video that has an EXTREMELY misinterpretable title.....................
Hey Contra, do you think there is any chance to get your thoughts on vegetarianism/veganism in a livestream or potentially even in a video?
Stop pretending you’re a woman. I can understand and agree with a lot of what you say, but I cannot understand why you would go as far as to pretend you’re not a man while speaking in defense of women and gays.
I'm going to have to dock you points for that excuse for music at 1:43. I know, I know, tastes differ. But my stars and garters, that *hurt*.
Purple wig looks cute
do you hate your fellow whites because you grew up in the south ?
I agree with you at the end, except that for some reason you think that "decadence" is under attack anymore than "decency" is under attack.  What I reject is when you say that you just want a world where you "are allowed to exist." You do exist, I don't see how there's an issue with anything other than that, and I think that you blow this fascist stuff out of proportion just as much as people blow the communists out of proportion.  Certainly there's an alt right "movement" going on; but there's also an "anarcho-communist" movement going on. While I think its fair to criticism Rubin for a great many things, I don't think you're doing anything except pushing moderates further to the poles of those two movements by continuing in every single video you make to suggest that he's implicitly rooting for the alt-right fascists. I mean, isn't he gay? What sense does that even make?
Regarding the Communist Newspaper, that isn't the case anymore. Homosexuality is now seen by us as just people who happen to be slightly different, and in general, aren't bourgeois.
I love you. Please be my waifu.
The airhorn MLG meme is stale as fuck, up your game, contra!
Your historical interpretation doesn't refute the "social conservative" interpretation because you're assuming that Christianity isn't (at least in part) "decadent." From the perspective of ancient Man, Christian morality would have been seen as quite decadent and easily could be seen to reduce the strength of a nation by virtue of its tendency to lower its practitioners.
Really enjoyed your rendition of Gold Dust Woman, though.  I'd pay money for that.
Was this that hard?  de·gen·er·ate  adjective      1. having lost the physical, mental, or moral qualities considered normal and desirable; showing evidence of decline: "a degenerate form of a higher civilization" synonyms: debased, degraded, corrupt, impure, vitiated     2. lacking some property, order, or distinctness of structure previously or usually present, in particular:  You being a degenerate has nothing to do with race or political perspective.  It's stems purely from your mindless indulgence in some pseudo scientific fantasy to save your ego from the recognition of your own inadequacy.   I knew university philosophy programs were worthless, but I never realized the psychological damage they could inflict on weak willed men.
If I ever do open a bar I'm hiring ContraPoints on blues night
I love that this isn't as dry and no-fun as your other videos lately c: I loved the points you made but you were becoming more and more factual and actually kind of draining to watch. Keep up the good work love!!!
That Camille dig felt good xD
Riley J. Dennis ... WHY DID YOU DESTROY ANCIENT ROME?
so I'm supposed to be creating a presentation about "R for data science"
can "priestess of blasphemy" become my nickname everywhere now
Lefty cringe on YouTube.
Okay wait so (7:49) are you telling me that scientists looked at the boastful stories of old and decided that the reason we're not like the characters in those stories is because we're somehow less human than they were? WHAT. OF COURSE those people are larger than life. They're characters in stories. Exaggeration is the name of the game. This was a lot more interesting and entertaining than I was expecting. I'm kinda excited to see the next one.
paglia is a windbag.
If I back your Patreon, can I get an MP3 of My Favorite Degenerate Things? 😍
Why is it that Fascists, Communists and almost all religions hate "degeneracy"? Certainly because so-called "degeneracy" is the the ability of people to chose ways of behaving and thinking different from the ones those ideologies command, and that's why such ideologies also hate freedom and freedom of speech.
Very well done video! I only have one request: Can you please release a full version of "My Favorite Degenerate Things"? Please? It's something the world needs!
You are no Stevie Nicks. Btw, Paglia is Pal-ee-uh. No hard g.
"These people believe themselves to be very cosmopolitan," *King Cobra Belch*
This video has too much hysteria and denial of reality to finish. Checking out.
Officially addicted to the song I guess https://youtu.be/uv39ARM2to4
Don't you think you are using the term "Fascist" a little too broadly?
This was great :) I think I'll try this channel out
he made a reply!!
You deserve more subscribers,  your Anita impression with the checkered shirt at 14:08 has not gone unnoticed
Don't get me wrong, I am also getting  cultural, political and aesthetic sustenance from this video, but the sheer entertainment value of this ridiculous Golden Lion/Contra... rivalry? thing? is just not to be beat anywhere
I just discovered you, immediately subscribed, and am now completely enamoured. And now I have a new favorite degenerate song!
Has ContraPoints responded to the Golden Ones Video reply. If Contra has recorded or written any reply to Golden Ones video please post link. Contra do you plan on   replying at all? Pleaaase let me know?
unsubscribe from me contrapoints
Brilliant and inspiring! You know, with all that you do for reinventing a leftist aesthetic, I've come to realise how important that can be. I'm also convinced that noone should be as good at is as we are, heck, we invented postmodernism and pretty much everything that's ever been funny and cool has come from a progressive place. Let's own it, let's take intersectionality to a new level and have a degenerate, inclusive, sex-positive agenda paired with the pompous theatricality of socialism. We shall rest only when a furry daemonette of Slaanesh and a queer stud with Golden locks share a socialist fraternal kiss on the top of a brutalist building while a Red Sun is Rising and the liberated proletariat is dancing in the streets to Wagner.
All hail the return of the pure matron milk of the wolf Fenrir!
D E C A D E N C E
What is the music from the beginning from
Hey, wasn't Nietzsche's body of work butchered by his racist family and further butchered and appropriated by other fascists? And from what I understood about his Master-Slave thing is that he...wanted people to move away from that system altogether.
Thank you and your group for doing this excellent YouTube videos. I learn a lot, I laugh, I think a lot and I really look up to you and your humorous way to deal with all the aggressions you receive every day. It fills my heart with a warm feeling. Seriously I really love your work. Hugs from Argentina! Keep on!
Why didn't you leave any source material in your video description? Why am I supposed to believe you when giving all those historical facts? I think you make a good argument I just need too see some academic papers
Nice songs in this video.
Awwww no love for Nietzsche.
OMG the Alcohol PSA was lovely...
I wanna buy that song lol
you rock!
you have to distinguish https://www.dict.cc/?s=distinguish the german words:   https://de.wikipedia.org/wiki/Degeneration  and  https://de.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dekadenz  Dekadenz is not Degeneration
I think Camille Paglia has some good points. I do see contra points in that degeneracy has been apart of history since Ancient Rome. There could be a correlation to the rise of transgender identity to collapse of civilizations but there may not be a causation. I personally think that even if transgenderism didn't rise in Rome, it would have collapsed regardless!
Some gay people want to conform to heteronormative relationships. Just saying.
Hey! You know any Fred Gray? How 'bout Wishbone Ash?
Do a vid against Nietzsche
Wonderful as always <3
Shit like this is why Stalin did nothing wrong.
You're a degenerate. Should be sent to gulag
Stay degenerate, stay decadent.  Oh, and can you please publish your words to "My favourite things".
STOP
Well, the Greek idealised alpha male in Venus in furs has feminine features. I guess in America you don’t know that true male dominants are high both in the feminine hierarchy and the masculine hierarchy. Your idea of gender is sort of a caricature. Hopefully you’re working very hard on it. From Europe it’s very entertaining.     I must say, I enjoy your videos, and I’d like to discuss more of them, but commenting is far too laborious.     In Ecce Homo Nietzsche identify as a decadent. So your analysis of his ideas is a bit too binary. It’s funny; it seems that you reject him the way French art students take the piss out of Marcel Duchamp: you’re living a strange love and hate relationship. He touched the gullible little boy inside you, and you’re not going to forget him.     Your voice is all right, but I think you should time to time add some head voice notes in it. It would be more expressive.     More countertenor music in your videos please!
Degeneracy and decadence are welcome in center-left neoliberalism. Hell, they're encouraged!
Aside from just being its lush and beautiful self, this vid really made me think about decadence in a new light. I've always thought the idea of degenerate human beings to be cruel and deeply wrong, but I sort of took the word 'decadence' for it's more common, surface-level meaning. I thought it meant something like Marie Antoinette suppossedly telling peasants to eat cake; self-absorbed, empty pursuit of pleasure without any care for the impoverished. I had no idea the word had such a dehumanizing past! Anybody have book recs on the Decadent Movement?   PS: We are headed toward a redemption arc with Abigail, yes??? I love you for making her awful and human:)  PPS: I'm really banking on this comment getting buried here but everything about the ASMR bath including fumbling with the candle? If someone tried that exactly in an IRL situation, I'd be putty. I know I'm going straight to hell for reading ASMR as sexy, but I can't help it! Relaxing IS sexy what am I supposed to do!!!
Honestly Contra's roastgame on point
Of course, we all know that someone is a degenerate when they have the same energy as another person, thus increasing the multiplicity of the state in the grand canonical ensem-... Wait a minute, wrong textbook, carry on.
You have a very good singing voice
I'm wondering, are you a spineless liberal? Or are you a Radical Leftist?
Hi, do you like women?...... asking for a friend
Hey be nice to Nietzsche
gold dust woman is one of my favorite songs
JESUS FUCK ULFRIC STORMCLOAK BECAME A REAL PERSON
Good job "both sides"-ing homophobia from leftists and fascists.
damn, i wish i was as pretty and articulate as this girl. you can get it.
Paglia is saying that when an empire is falling, it obsesses over minute social issues.  She in no way implies that queers cause empires to fall.  This is axiomatic.  When you have to spend 8 hours a day getting food and clean water, you don't care about pronouns or man-spreading.  When you are fat, bored and decadent as a society there's lots of free time to obsess over such nonsense and lose everything your hungry ancestors worked to attain.
Is it weird that I like both him and the Golden One in almost equal measure?  Like both make really good cases even if they are in such opposition!
Well. Time for me to go have a soothing degenerate bath.
The one thing about your videos that really stands out to me is that they all get really weird at one point or another. In this one it was the tub seduction thing, in another one the music got all ominous as your "nazi" character put on a maga hat, and there was a drug trip in one I saw months ago....what's that about?  Do you just feel the need to go off the walls at least once per video? or is it just a stylistic choice?
"uh uh uh transgender uh uh uh ISIS uh uh uh uhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhh" - "Feminist"   Maybe she should have prepped a little more or just not talked out of her butt, it was hard listening to that
I feel like there was a missed opportunity to play the Degeneration X theme in this video, but maybe that's just because my bf is really into wrestling and wrestling memes.
<3
The Golden One made a response video to this and I cannot bring myself to watch it.
LGBT Facists reject degenerates like milo who dont subscribe to their fuckgirl philosophy lmao
hi. just started watching your channel like ten seconds ago and it's gr8. i just wanted to say thank you so much for captioning your videos. i'm not HoH/Deaf in any way but i do have an auditory processing disorder so it's often very hard for me to be able to be active in political spaces due to lack of accessibility.  so i just wanted to say thank you very much
is no-one else losing their shit he spends the hole fucking time calling him 'tony' rather than 'tommy'. either that or tony's been doing some mean shit between episodes of time team,
Characterisation on this video has been on point. Specially liked pink hair's look... and felt the flexible in heteroflixible with that pseudo asmr bath tub scene.  Also: loved the ending song.
I'm so upset I only just today found your youtube.  Your sense of humour is dead on with mine.  Thank you for creating these wonderful videos.
Wow you actually beautiful.. Ye i know not the most original comment
At the end of the day society doesn’t belong to Fascists, it belongs to everyone so they are just going to have to deal with it
you're pretty. and smart. let's be frands 👯❤️🍸
I will never hear the word "degenerate" the  same again. Thank you sir....ma'am..."whatever-dude"!!! :-D
I'm mix breed dirty homosexual. If that's not degenerate, I don't know what is.Love you're videos ms. Contra
You're a funny guy/girl Contra, even if you are a filthy degenerate (which you most certainly are).
A square matrix that can't be inverted, (over any ring) These are my favourite degenerate things! (https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Invertible_matrix)  Also all that gay shit with my custom gender and creative sexual behaviour. I'm all about that too.
Nat, stop making me fall more in love with you I SWEAR. Im learning AND swooning I can't take this
Why did you put a random image of Zizek next to that anti-gay communist text,  has he ever wrote something that would come close to the sentiment of those statements? Feels like character assassination based on some vague rumours. Great video otherwise.
I loved this!
jeez you're amazing
Now that's how you end a video. Great stuff.
I listen to "the wall" every time I get high and mighty about fascists. Just to remember there's a fascist in my head and he's brilliant and scary.
#1 patron, George Soros
I loved this video so much. As someone who struggled through a philosophy class in college, I appreciate how you discussed the ideas in this video (ie the fuckboy philosophy of nietsche killed me it was so funny and informative). I’m so glad Lindsay Ellis mentioned you in a video a while back.
separate kudos for degenerate asmr
Also, Camille Paglia, shut the fuck up, good god
I never knew true cringe until the golden one brought out that "orcs know what menu is" line.
I'm curious @ContraPoints, in what way do you take your hormones? I take my E in the form of a salve.
Referencing music in the description is greatly appreciated and should in theory be done by everyone making videos.
like your stuff. Keep it up. :) I am looking forward to watching your videos .
Lmao, TheGoldenOne made a response video. That explains the dislikes.
Žižek explains this in "Towards a hermeneutic of tribal desire"  If we are talking seriously about taking back local communities from corporate hegemony, we have be able to confront the fact that many of these communities are going to be based around shared identities and values that are diametrically at odds with the neoliberal, globalist, multicultural (really monocultural) corporate status-quo.  Calling people "racist" for wanting to form intentional communities based around shared identity and values is simply a cop-out, and indicative of government and corporatist social conditioning.  Left unexamined here is the a priori moral assumption that diversity or multiculturalism is necessarily a social good, and that any social conflict or bad outcomes it creates are the result of moral failings of the people themselves, not as a result of conflicts inherent to the neoliberal corporate multicultural project.  This is typically coupled with the religious incantation that we must overcome feelings of preference or kinship for racial and ethnic in-groups, but why? This is never examined, and I think this is due to social programming.
that was beautiful and i think i love you
LOL "The Golden One" made a video response to this. HAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHA, it's so stupid that it's funny. I've just seen it and LOL his stupidity is hilarious.
Did you even rinse those grapes before eating them? Fucking filthy degenerate.
I would love to know more about your opinions on Nietzsche.
I stumbled across this channel just a couple of days ago and I've already watched everything you've posted. Love what you're doing here and i love you. I think there need to be more of these voices in the youtube community, not just to champion the voice of the transgender or the gender queer, but also to counteract the onslaught of anti feminist, reactionary soapboxes, disguised as intellectuals. Its something which i never has the confidence to do, but thought needed to be done. Keep up the wood work girl!!!
This is the evening news brought to you by your local fascist. “Don’t be happy be a hive mind, I’m the monster you’re the degenerate,  I have MoRAals.(vermin noises).”
Hmmm Im starting to find myself becoming more left by the day. It wasn’t always this way. Must be their brainwashing. Can’t wait till I get to destroy society. GOOOOOOOOOD BYYYEEEEEEEE GOOOLLLD MAAAAAAN GOOOOODD BYEEEEE GOOOOOOLD MAAAAAAN, GG TWAS A GOOD GAME. Plz be mean to me, I’ll give you 1 shekel.
George Soros is a patron? *I KNEW IT*.
I think that all the people who call you a degenerate are just trying to hide their boners for you. Because they think that that is gay (it kinda is) but who really cares.
You are the coolest degenerate I've ever seen.
Weak excuses for weak morals.
16:00 More degen ASMR pls
10:00 This is painful to listen to. She's throwing out terms she doesn't know like archaic period, she's totally misinformed about when Greeks were doing pederasty, she might be mixing them up with Romans, and she might even be thinking that contrapposto is meant to be inherently effeminate instead of just naturalistic.  The Greeks were absolutely sculpting big strong naked dudes well into the Hellenistic period.
Full videos of you playing the piano and singing would be lovely. <3
hey i'm a centrist and i like your vids! keep it up!
YOU STARTED AN ASMR SESSION MID VIDEO THIS IS THE REAL DEGENERACY.
This is the modern-day Rocky horror picture show – with added political and social commentary.
Really loved the homage to clockwork Orange!!! God bless your channel
I love it when you sing!!
*What is this barbarism?*
This video is a masterpiece.😍😍💕
camila boyhead not androgynous AT ALL
Contra don't be responsible, be awesome.
more views than the Golden (self-gay) One   - even tho this age confirmation barrier digi-sh!t
can't wait for riley to seduce the golden one into joining the radical left
Had to watch to the end, the song is too good. Slay
You are much better at Youtube than me. Thank you for making these videos.
💪HUH Surprise Flex
YouTube's ultimate sex symbol as spoken.   ..and I DONT mean the golden one 😉
5:15 he has clearly never heard of caitlyn jenner.
RESURRECTION BY ERECTION!
just introduced to your stuff. you're amazing.
It would suck if these homophobes knew the science behind sexuality. The idea is, in nearly ALL SPECIES, when heterosexual couples die with living children, then the homosexual couples take their place. It is literal biology. If we're measuring skulls for science and then you look past that fucking fact, you are no longer apart of any argument. People can't cherry-pick science.
im a little disappointed to hear you hate nietzsche based on the common misinterpretation of his work by modern fuck boys. still, good video.
I've never felt so represented as when Natalie said "Daddy" to the camera and did a little laugh smile. AAHHHHHH
Not trying to objectify you, and if my comment bothers you i genuinely would like you to let me know, but holy fuck, you are a sexy woman. Hmu sometime
god damn <33333333333333333
very informative video, but a bit of a cooked take on nietzsche tbh
Was just turned on to you by a close friend, and I swear to god the internet and world do not deserve you. Thank you for being this epically awesome.
As a Communist, I can say homophobia and any sincere talk of degeneracy is not part of any movement I would be a part of. All the comrades I know support your right to do anything you want with consenting adults. Workers of the world, unite!
14:19 omfg masterpiece
5:04 if you want to skip the acting/ scene...... thing.
Personally the word "degenerate" doesn't really hold any weight to me. I'll just keep being me, same with everyone else who don't fit the gender norms or accepted sexual orientations.
Song start at 14:20
Noone who uses this words thinks about the shit you are laying out here. They think about Miley Cyrus and the Hollyjew. The comodification of sexuality is the central theme.
You're so fancy lately Contra, I love it ❤
You're MY favorite degenerate thing Contra 😘 p.s- your face reminds me of Winona Ryder
"Let them eat cake".
pound me mistress contra points 👸👭
SO damn gorgeous and smart too. Marry me, please.
18:41 Anti-Revisionist Stalinist. No wonder. The only surprising thing with this article is that it is from 1976, when AFAIK most leftists movements started to be generally more progressive on those questions. Except for the Stalinists, of course.
do i think you're sexy bc you're smart, or smart bc you're sexy? jk it's definitely both
How do you know what Camille Paglia is saying "doesn't deserve a response"? How do we know it? Certainly not arguing against her rationally does nothing to refute her. I would prefer if you responded or referred one to a response. If civilisations are not identical with empires, which transparently they are not, why would her claim concern you? The most civilised countries in the world now are in Scandinavia, whose relationship to the American empire is limited.   Who is between Baudelaire and Wilde? Matisse? It's not Verlaine although it would make sense that you would put him there. Excuse me if you've already answered but I don't wish to read 2692 comments to find out.   Do you think what you make for here is art? Do you think the subjects you make this material about matter? In each case, why? Have you seen F for Fake by Orson Welles?It seems it would interest you. Thank you.
ok that was a pretty unfair summary of nitzsche though..
A.C.A.B - All Communists Are Bastards
How do I know if I'm old enough to watch this? Dammit YouTube, protect me better with your notifications!
Very degenerate video. Not glorious at all.
cover album when?!!?
This was like a terrific degenerate musical, please include more singing and musical numbers in the future!
9:58 Contra is basically doing what I'm tempted to do everytime I hear reactionary bullshit. Hell, my doctor is afraid I'll end up with alcohol poisoning if I watch too many Prager U videos.
Contra, I hope you used ice cold water when preparing the absinthe, if not you are not preparing it correctly. Also your pouring method is really sloppy. Absinthe requires a slow pour. Contra,  you are not a biological nor a social degenerate, you are basic and vanilla as fuck. What you are, Contra, is a Deviant. You are socially and sexually out side of the norm. You are aberrant, abnormal,  anomalous. Deviancy has become more acceptable, and in some cases celebrated, over the last twenty years or so. I think that is what a lot of people have a problem with. The normalization of deviant behavior. Which in all honesty is a genuine concern. If people like you are accepted into the normal society, your would be losing your deviancy, and hence losing what makes you unique.
Hey there gayboii
If decadence is such a great thing, why don't you create your own decadent countries and live among all your degenerate selves, instead of on the backs of normal people?
I finally had a ContraPoints dream. *am i a filthy degenerate now?*
A confusing intro but a fantastic summary of one of my favourite things! Will have to join you for an absynthe / costume party some time.
This is amazing! I'm completely in love with your videos and now I need the cat t-shirt... keep on rockin'!
Do you have a music channel, Contra?
I digg how you reclaim western culture and asthetics from the far-right in your videos!
This was a little uncomfortable to watch at times, I’m guessing it’d take me a while to get used to your sense of humor. In other news, I got a new puppy last week from a rescue! She’s a Pomeranian mix and she’s sleeping on my neck right now.
Haha I love the Golden One and his philosophies but this really made me laugh. You don't seem like a triggered butthurt snowflake type of person.
Rock and roll 21:03
Don't badmouth Nietzsche tho, I wrote my BA thesis on him and am in process of writing my MA thesis on him as well, and I'm pretty sure that he'd be on board with us degenerate queers and trans folks today. (Also there's no way the fucker wasn't kinda gay himself ...)
I'm laughing so hard I'm crying. Your first video about this dude is one of the funniest things I've seen on youtube and you've just topped it.
When are Non Whites and disabled People called degenerate? That is absolute nonsense, you can only behave degenerate. And Communism is normally not even Part of the Degeneracy, since it is an authoritarian ideology.
what does Mark Hamill have to do with communists who hate queers?
I'm here for a lot of your delightfulness, but I'm especially here for the rock n roll. You sing stunningly.
I want every piece of your mind and body... sorry that was too much. OMG your musical talent is amazing!
Thanks for defining degenerate, as I fit the criteria I will be sure to laugh in a sinister manner at future accusers.
That's what I love aboutcha,  Commie on the streets Libertarian in the sheets.
First time upon your channel. Such a talented and confident person.  I aspire to enjoy life like you. though I have my ambition to become a person who's able to understand others.
Classic!  Keep up the great work!
I say that if this youtube thing doesn't work out; you better get your ass into music.
14:19 needs to be on iTunes, please. EDIT: And 20:04
YouTube’s hottest channel is Contrapoints. The vibe while watching is surreally ironic, yet excitingly decadent, like your sex dreams of oiling up The GoldenOne while you’re dressed like the Dark Mother. This channel has everything: degeneracy, absinthe, a pinked haired lady doctor, Abigail’s damage, milk-baths to an underrated 1987’s power ballad by Heart, unchecked mass immigration, MTV’s Dan Cortese, the T’s and the D. It even has the jingling-oopsie-oy. It’s that thing when you’re doing ASMR while trying to drip hot candle wax on your body, but then you drop the candle and blame a Jewish person like our non-white supremacist president would.
Nietzsche thinks master morality is bad... Nietzche thinks morality is bad... He is a self identified "ammoralist" Stop using the fascist interpretation of his work!
Ok, I didn't see anyone mention this so I need to say it: I'm glad you brought Foppington into this. Thank you so much, Nat.
Hey Contra, do you have any views on Jayme Louis Liardi? He's a vegan and somewhat spiritual YouTuber who's also a white nationalist of sorts.
How do you make that lighting? It looks nice. A E S T H E T I C even.
This video gives me liiiiiiffffeeee.
i dont understand why a guy would ever not want to fuck a girl ever, it just doesnt make sense anthropologically, but if a guy doesnt want to fuck a girl im fine with that btw its shocking to see your fans supporting you because youre funny, and not because ure a transgender or whatever the fuck you are (i really dindt watch the video just listened to it, sorry) ure lucky in that regard, ppl dont laugh at ellen degeneres jokes becouse they are funny, but becouse they are feminist or whatever, i find it cringe worthy and sad...
Is this a goy or a goyrl ?
Always impressed by your creativity and humour. Another great video.
We all know that you just want his man-meat. This is okay.
0:45 Why did you do that? Now it will feel awkward playing as Orion :\
Jesus Christ, I love all your outfits! So pretty!
Yay for pointing out  that the Romans actually existed in the medieval times. Thank you, I'm going to subscribe to you because you're intelligent enough to  distinguish that Byzantines did not exist,but were Romans instead living in  the eastern half of the empire as there was really no change of government,culture and people in that area  until the   Ottoman conquest.
How come nobody talks about how feminists culturally appropriated the word 'fuckboy' from black people? God, I hate that word so much.
Came here from the GoldenOne's channel and I must say the production level, the work you've put into making this video is admirable. You made great use of humor for making good points while not being insulting.
(But also oh my God don't be the Brunhilda to his Siegfried... He forced Brunhilda to marry a pal of his and then raped her so she would provide her husband with sex...)
*quietly sobs in the corner about how beautiful Contra is*
the gong's debut performance
Cuck
ContrASMR is the next revenue stream.
Not enough people talk about the connections between fascism, racism, and the erosion of reproductive rights, so I really like that you mentioned abortion as one of the "degenerate" things that fascists oppose. To go even further down the rabbit hole, opposition to environmental protections is also in the fascist/right-wing playbook, not just because it favors their corporate donors, but also because environmental toxins are most likely to contaminate poor, non-white neighborhoods, leading to lower birth rates and higher infant mortality. So, ban abortions to get more white babies, and poison poor neighborhoods to get fewer black and brown babies.
19:46 So you want all of the rights with none of the responsiblities? Society is usually a give and take kind of thing, why would you even be allowed to take part in it if all that you do is take and not give?
i wrote and deleted a comment about you completely misunderstanding nietzsche. i do not believe you actually read or understood him, 100% certain you would love it. you picture him the same way dumbass social darwinist nazis that never read him do  also, your shit is just genius, best channel
This video gave my son transabilies
Nic, that fleetwood mac cover is super fantastic! You recorded a full version? Great video. Xxx
What the frankfurt is going on here?
"[nietzche] is every edgy 19 yr olds favourite philosopher" damnit. fuckgin damnit
Gold dust woman. What are you trying to say?
My boyfriend and I call each other degenerates all the time for dumb stuff like using dry shampoo instead of taking a shower, not washing your dishes ect i love that word; it’s so much fun. Like plebeian
age restricted?! what the fuck for?
wow dude DEEP
If only I could be so grossly A E S T H E T I C
12:18 Well, I'm a pussy-ass, whiny, lame, weak, sick, poor, gay SJW moralfag Christian, so I fit slave morality almost to a T (although I'm neither decadent nor poor) But I do like Nietzsche from a Deleuzian perspective.
this was fucken great  and that is the highest compliment i can give as an australian
Is absinthe and coffee a thing?
*hears carnival of the animals* I ALREADY KNOW THIS WILL BE AMAZING. *16 minutes pass* GODDAMMIT IT IS EVEN MORE AMAZING THAN I DREAMED.
This may have already been said but your singing is amazing and your voice sounds great. I would buy an album of you doing covers but I know recording studio time don't come cheap. So in the meantime looking forward to hearing more music in your vids :) :) :)
Emilia Paglia talks about history and current events the way an internet community discusses a tv-series that they've been binge-watching. She's pitching all these fantheories and believes that they have value because of how gosh darn interesting they are. But this isn't Twin Peaks, people believing the shit she says affects people IRL.
May we have a bluesy ContraPoints EP?
If you were more worried about the ethics of silencing those that disagree with you through violence rather than it's "optics", I might take your "live and let live" mentality more seriously. As it stands, you look like an authoritarian-at-heart who's just waiting for an opportune time to oppress others.
It's weird how social conservatives and fascists think that queer people are simultaneously weak pathetic degenerates who should be eliminated while at the same time holding so much influence in society that they can single-handedly take down entire civilisations.
It sucks that it now says this video is age-restricted 😕.  But anyway I'm loving your work, Nat.
keep takin your meds
Word degenerate used a lot by a racist: The word is FASCIST.  Planned Parenthood founded by an admitted eugenist: What's the problem?
Keep doing your thing. Meanwhile me and my fellow "fascist" will be strength, combat, and weapons training
Could you put a warning up about the flashing lights - they come out of nowhere. helpful for people with photosensitive epilepsy  Loved the video as always your stuff is excellent
The Golden Ones response video brought me here. I found this odd, but hilarious.
Stop consuming porn
@ 11:38 or you know, don't trade a young princeling for dog food. Unless you want them to rebel and bring weapons into your society.  If we pretend this is a justifiable debate.
As much as I dislike white nationalism, (and since I am a transman, the mere thought of becoming pregnant gives me a lot of dysphoria), it is my life goal to have as many of the golden one's pure, white, non-degenerate babies as possible.
Ok, I seriously need a wiki for ContraPoints characters.
How dare you try and drag our Golden Leader down to your fucking level!
"The fascist quest is to be the only survivor"  You hit the nail right on the head here, main reason being is because I see this desire to be The Fittest in the Survival of the Fittest mindset fascists seem to be so enthralled with mirrored in escapist post-apocalyptic stories riddled with neo-conservative politics. You can especially see this in The Walking Dead comics where the running theme is that collectivism is portrayed as a weakness while the Individual is praised in all it's Lone Survivor trope-filled glory.   It's also why post-apoc fantasies tend to be a favorite of fascists, because the setting of the apocalypse allows for any sense of morality or ethics to be thrown to the wind in favor of self-preservation of you and your Tribe.
Sad
Fuck I puked
HAHAHAHAHAAHHAAHAHAHAHHAHAAHAHAHAHHAHAHAA
Fuch fact: Castro apologized for his regime's treatment of LGBT+  people.
"Surgery, an opera? How WONDERFULLY decadent."
is there an argument, that homosexuality is not damaging to society in this video?  I saw the whole thing but all I got was a refusal. Did I miss it?
Loved your version of "favorite things", wish someone talented could properly animate a full length version of it.
I disagree with most of your points, but your production value is relentless.
weaponized. nanotech. unleashed. cull. enslave. extinction. event. post. human. incarnation. god. like. beings. conquer. beyond. this. rock.
I drank Alcahol once and I ended up iN a golden shower with Trump Aa
I hope your OKCupid profile is just a link to this video
Don't get me wrong, I liked this video, but it also made me want to kill myself as well.
I thought Trump was years your daddy?
Please sing more pls
I fucking love you (and Riley, great shout-out). You're an artist and a revolutionary. Never stop being so shameless ~ ❤️💛💚💙💜
2edgy4me
In your perfect society there is mass immigration and open borders, you're suicidal.  See how you get on with the LGBT friendly third world Muslims.  There's a balanced point between the fash and the regressive left, you don't have it.
These are by far the highest quality videos on Youtube at the moment IMO. Keep it up!
Where can I buy the whole degenerate song though?
Its a broad term, but it is still obviously metaphysical. Someone is not degenerate simply because they are not White. Half of my role models are Asians who are the antithesis of degeneracy. Biological devolution is actually an offshoot of the much older social devolution theory, which is observable in the earliest mythologies known to humanity. Btw, we know degenerates will always exist as long as people are allowed personal freedoms, and rightfully so. The social movement is more about countering the degenerate influences that people are subjected to by society as a way of leveling things out.
When can I purchase your new album 'Songs to Annoy and Enrage Fascists' with the hit single 'These are my Favorite Degenerate Things'? I need it for, well, reasons.
I’m pretty hard to the right, not going to lie, but I appreciate that you have an honest and clear refutation to this concept.  I disagree with a big chunk of alot of this but it was very well done and I appreciate the intelligence behind it.
>im a fair maiden now  Hahaha no
Sodomite
I'm noticing an influx of negative comments. Most sound like The Golden Ones fanboys. I thought you two made peace
This dude is kinda creepy.
What the hell is this creature? .. it genuinely concerns me people listen to this MAN dressed as a fucking woman as a source of news. Amazing as hell. Lmao. Society is fucked.
HAIL THE GOLDEN ONE  TAKE THE GLORIOUS PILL  👱🏻🤚🏻
I like how you call these people "fashy" and expect them to take it as an insult
Jesus fuck drink some bleach.
Love the song at the end piano was divine
Weirdly passive-aggressive for someone who claims to not care about disapproving opinions. Seems like if it really wasn't an issue to you, this video wouldn't have been made at all. Destructive "degenerate" behavior should be reduced as a general rule. No one is perfect but embracing inherently damaging actions should be discouraged. Seems you're a little flustered because you might know this already.
Excellent video as usual comrade
What is it
You’re disgusting
Puke. Didn't even make it to 2 minutes in. What the fuck is this channel you desperately need to be gassed. You could have been so much better yet you chose to become this blasphemy against nature.
God rest your soul.
Not to mention, Way the fuck to vindicate everything these people say about the right... /golfclap
You are but a dog and the golden one is your master!
I love how you guys think you can lob insults that they haven't heard a million times over.   Do you imagine you're being hurtful?  Creative?  WTF are you doing?
disgusting untermensch you are, repulsive
The only thing that made sense in this video was Camille Paglia, which you cowardly didn't even respond to.
0/10! Not enough bedazzled swastikas on your chest!
An absolute masterpiece. Brava!
Let's get into semantics and not discuss the DEGENERATE BEHAVIOR of the current year. Lefties love talking about the current year but you seem hell bond on dismissing the notion of our society embracing degenerate and decadent behavior. I'm not even white and I can see the dangers of this rampant societal degeneracy. These weird fetishes do nothing to further our society. It's okay for little boys and girls to be twerking in the streets because reasons... Kek. it took you awhile to make this video but did you honestly think about the consequences to our society if we all just embrace decadence?
2 min into this and had enough.  vile!
As always, good music choices.
gross
This is the greatest video i hve ever seen and i realized i know tons of proto fascists
I thought they canceled 'Tales From The Crypt" a long time a go. Good to see they brought it back. Much more frightening than I initially recall.
You creep me tf out. You have every entitlement to live however you want, but you're creepy as fvck. Lol
disgusting
Common for leftists to view everything on an individual level and missing the bigger picture.
Damn this guy is a full blown genius.
God, youre so fucking hideous
PURGE THIS DAEMON FROM THE WARP! WITH LAS SHOT AND BAYONET, I WILL BRING GLORY TO HIS NAME!
Contra doesn't give a shit about his society or its future, he just wants to bask in temporary narcissism and pleasure and burn through society's capital as termites like him eat away at its foundation. He lives in a fantasy world of his own creation existing within the space materially secured for him by fascists.
Didn't know you liked Alfonse Mucha. Neat!
I can see you're not addressing the strongest possible arguments, especially in regards to miscegenation. It isn't about pearl clutching or mere preferences about how we want things to look. It's about the well-being of children. Check out these findings, sources included: Mixed race kids suffer from low self-esteem, social isolation, and poor family dynamics. https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC1448064/  Mixed race children are more likely to have health problems, high stress, smoke, and drink. https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC1448064/ http://www.unc.edu/news/archives/oct03/udry10302003.html  1) The highest rate of ADHD, at 15.2%, is in the mixed race category.  2) The highest rate of 'Learning Disability, at 14.6%, is in the mixed race category.  3) The highest rate of 'Behavioral Difficulty', at 12.8%, is in the mixed race category. https://mchb.hrsa.gov/nsch/07main/national/1child/1healthstatus/pages/05adhd.html  White-Black babies suffer higher risks of prematurity, low birth weight, neonatal death, and stillbirth.  https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC2867623/  https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15994621  Black-White children have family incomes similar to those of Black families, similar rates of fatherlessness as Black families, and are more likely than BOTH Whites AND Blacks to engage in risky behaviors like drinking, fighting, stealing, and doing drugs.  http://www.nber.org/papers/w14192  In the United States, an estimated 32.3% of multiracial women, 27.5% of American Indian/Alaska Native women, 21.2% of non-Hispanic black women, 20.5% of non-Hispanic white women, and 13.6% of Hispanic women were raped during their lifetimes https://www.cdc.gov/mmwr/preview/mmwrhtml/ss6308a1.htm#Table2  Why encourage something that will increase the likelihood of children suffering and dying?
What is so hard to understand about this?   If it is harmful for the society, society should disencourage it. And this is true if and only if it is harmful for the society; the case for the or the perspective from the individual is irrelevant.
So you`re basically a delightful, insightful life loving decadent, like Roger from family guy? Yay!
"Degeneracy isn't real" says the degenerate.
Have fun hating your self lmao
Degenerate freak.
If you want to eliminate your reproductive fitness and ensure your genes are wiped out, be my guest, but don't force society to be dragged down into your nihilistic oblivion with you.
You look like a disgusting creature, I sincerely hope you didn't go through transition surgery.
Ur so hot gotdamn
Meat's back on the menu boys
Cannon fodder what a fucking weirdo equating 1000,s of pushups and miles of jogging with "popping E "and brushing your gay hair
Poor Nietzsche, always misunderstood. Well, at least it is the Nazi's fault. I'll just leave this here... https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ti9zdpLlXf0
There are only two genders, male and female. There is no such thing as sexuality, as heterosexuality is the default and anything else is crime against nature.
14:19 for the outstanding modern reinterpretation of Julie Andrews' "These Are a Few of My Favorite Things."
I'm a fascist who was pleasantly surprised with your fairly accurate representation of our views - even if I obviously don't agree with your characterization of them lol
Fascism is cool :)
"The right of degenerates to exist" HAHAHAHAHHAHAH
That unhide-able laugh at 1:07 was so adorable.
Another great video Contra!
Ew, you didn't rinse them grapes.
another masterpiece. Congrats!
Degenerate
While I'm definitely not a huge fan of his thought whatsoever, the 'fuckboy' reading of Nietzsche was largely a misinterpretation of his writings in the first place. I mean, Nietzsche would loathe The Golden One (or the Nazis for instance) for being a mediocre shell of the 'masters' they claim to be.
Your videos about the golden one are among some of your best. He really is your muse.
Im sick
Gurl I just gotta say I love your voice in this video. I have watched some of your live streams and honestly cringed at your "femme voice". I am a trans woman who never really tried to change my voice because, even though I do have disphoria about my voice, I have seen many TransFemmes go through this process of voice training where they will put on this fake voice that sounds like a man trying to sound like a woman. However that is a step in the process of actually finding your real "femme voice". You had to shoot too high then settle to a less straining middle ground. I think this video shows your middle ground and it sounds SO GOOD
Great video.  That ASMR was... unexpected :O Love the outro song!
contrapoints, you're beautiful  also, please tell me how you source/search your history so well
Pin the golden ones comment
YEEES!
2:33 omg what's his name?
ROCK ON COMRADE!!!!!!!!!!!!!
15:41 the ASMR part...
I discovered this channel tonight and fuckin... First of all, you're really pretty! Second of all, this video's hilarious.
Dat George Soros nod though.
Damn, I really liked that song you sung. Who wrote that? I've never heard it. Could you do a full cover of it? Put it on itunes or something.
Contrapoints music: find you a gal that can do both
Was that a Notorious B.I.G. reference...? If so that's old school!
Good fucking God, Paglia is an idiot.
i absolutely loved this video but i do hope i misinterpreted something and that you didn't actually just say all kinksters are q***r / lgbt by nature...
Thank you for the lovely content! You must work so hard on these videos!
It's supposed to be laudanum, not sugar. Do it right or don't do it at all.
Camille Paglia gets my noodles so WET. You know what I'm saying?
this is one of the best videos i've ever seen. this is great even beyond the point it is making
Love that you brought the forgotten Max Nordau into this so brilliantly!
Who wears a bathing suit in the bath tub? Fucking degenerate.
I like cultural appropriation
George Soros as main patron!! :D :D
Natalie! I came across these vids today & wanted to pass them on because I think you'll appreciate. Many of the same topics/talking points on your channel are presented here (i.e. why "debating" reactionaries is inherently ineffective, how different sub-communities of deplorable bigots are all still tied to and brainwashed by reactionary propaganda, how to use their own language and tactics against them, etc.) and your politics seem similar as well.  The Alt-Right Playbook: An Introduction https://youtu.be/4xGawJIseNY  The Alt-Right Playbook: Control the Conversation https://youtu.be/CaPgDQkmqqM
1st impressions: HOLY SHIT DAT OUTFIT.
I don't agree with you about everything at all, but you can drip candle wax on me anyway, i'm down for it.
Holy shit this was art if I have ever seen it.
I think these ideologies have a problem with decadence/degeneracy because these more collective ideologies are responses to perceived threats and so they want society to be as healthy as possible to fight the threat i.e less feminine males who are seen as weak, less barren women who aren't sustaining the tribe, less self destructive and addictive behaviors that destroy people who can make a contribution to the defence, upkeep and advancement of the society... A society of extreme plurals that exist in total opposition to each other can only exist for so long before it boils over, decadence can only exist if we are powerful and determined enough to defend it and if most of society have lived decadent lifestyles do you really think they will be able to defend it from those who abhor it, have grown up in hardship and are determined to destroy it?
With every video you make, you give me hope. Thank you.
The fall of Rome stuff isn't necessarily pseudo history, nobody can really prove why Rome fell but the theory has some validity. Also from what I gather they aren't blaming transgenders for the fall of Rome, I don't think you listened to what they said, they postulated increased androgyny was just one of the many symptoms of a weak culture in decline.
NO alcohol for higher awareness self-realization. REAL King Cobra venom is dripped onto ganja, dried in the sun and smoked by Indian sadhus for union with Shiva . Clean  up your act and keep everything else.
Your videos have a good quality to them, a unique style and aesthetic. You are a bright and creative individual. Such a shame you fell for the tranny meme. You could've been a brilliant, respected man in society instead of living a self indulgent fetish lifestyle. I hope in a few years when the wall is approaching fast you have an epiphany about all this nonsense.
Lamarck is BACK with Epigenetics
Try Huysmans "A rebours"
Ａ　Ｂ　Ｓ　Ｏ　Ｌ　Ｏ　Ｕ　Ｔ　Ｅ　Ｄ　Ｅ　Ｇ　Ｅ　Ｎ　Ｅ　Ｒ　Ａ　Ｃ　Ｙ
This is interesting.
Nobody who has been moved by the Frist Symphony would ever put it into that montage. I understand your disgust at the plebian aspects who hound you but this is a transgression of the spirit, not the body - and the argument of the blood-science folks was that the blood contained the spirit. As indeed did Absynthe... the Green Fairy.... Art is spiritual in nature... thus the argument was the degeneracy of the blood-spirits (which look a lot like mameshima) lead to the products of Modern Art. For example Tracy Emmin was described as 'this generation's Da Vinci' after she emptied a bunch of filth and condoms onto a bed and called it 'art'.  I mean, we can't entirely reject the possibility that Dan Brown might write the Emmin Code in the near future - but it seems unlikely. Even the lowliest club-footed hunchback recognizes that Da Vinci and Emmin do not belong on the same page of human history - so what the fuck is going on with these critics? One can only assume they have poisoned their blood-spirits... Your blood-spirits must be fairly irritated to put Beethoven into that Montage - but the fact you know Beethoven's 1st and chose the 4th Mvt speaks entirely of a betrayal of your own love for Beethoven... yet you claim the cultural suicide-instinct is debunked? I would recommend you buy a large quanity of Kelp capsules from Holland & Barret. Kelp heals blood-spirits.  It's entirely optional of course.
My god, I love you.
It must have been expensive AF to get that Swedish lake water shipped to the US.
Well I learnt something, never bathe with fascists...... ....suppose its back to throwing shit at them.
Wh   DOes anyone know the source of the clip Contra used of the TERF telling how effemenate men led to the downfall of the Roman Empire.
Who the heck is this Lars fellow? He looks and sounds like a Skyrim character come to life. I'm presuming he is of the Stormcloak persuasion, of course.
these somehow keep getting better! holy crap
EUPHORIA - hell yea - Brandon Walsh & Emily Valentine are in the know
Contra "the tuck" points
God please tell me you aren't actually funded by George Soros.
there has never been a finer youtube crush then natalie
Didn't Nietzche set the ground work for post modernism and inspired thinkers like Foucault, the very people that alt-rightists detest because of "degenewacy"
wtf I love degeneracy now
This white, male, cis-hetero, recovering libertarian preacher's kid is somewhat envious of your "degeneracy".
how is there even a channel this good jeeeesus
i like your videos.
Degenerated.... degenerated.... and our minds are... vegetated!
Please strangle me with your thighs.
Condoms and orgies And mass immigration Malt liquor 40  And miscegenation  Boys who use dildos And girls with cock rings These are my favourite degenerate things
Thank you for bringing up the "think about the children" crowd. The whole "Think of the children" debate has always been dense; children usually don't care or hold any judgmental attitudes towards things such as people within the LGBT+ as an adult would and if they do, then it's usually their parents passing down those views or some other adult figure. Shielding children rarely works, educating them does.
16:24 fascist hand signal confirmed
I see contrapoints, I hit like.
Nietzsche ironicly hated anti-semites
I've been arguing with this guy on and off for the past month or so and he's just sat there calling me "diseased" and "a degenerate" for arguing in favor of trans rights. I swear, they all talk like they played Europa Universalis for five minutes and became convinced they're the pope or something.
contrapoints is life
I like you! :)
Finally! Ever since I learned of this morons existence I wondered when Paglia would pop up in one of your videos.  Also, since the Golden beefcake below brought it up: you should totally cosplay as a daemonette.   I also want to point out that your voice sounds much better than last time I heard it. You're getting there.
You REALLY REALLY REALLY need to hear 1993 calling, the banlization rant of a The Great Seal eyeball, https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WNAKr1TQ0xc&index=4&list=PLA34681B9BE88F5AA What kicked off the Arab Spring:  Self-immolation - they learned form 2010 in North Africa.  They learned, trust me as truth.  "Geese are but Geese tho' we may think 'em Swans; and Truth will be Truth tho' it sometimes prove mortifying and distasteful." (WHO said this in social context? historic principal?)  If it were in Mexico, the journalist, the reporting of *truth*, not the "Fake News" of Fox News, how many   Self-immolation  of journalist would it take to get the American attention to vomit out Donald Trump?
Pop all the estrogen you want. You'll still be a cool dude.
I started laughing at 0:34 because I could already see who this was going to be about =)
Can you make that a full song?
This might be my favorite Contrapoints video yet.
So talented, this channel deserves more subs.
i don't mind getting into that bath tub lmao
Four seconds in and I'm already laughing. You're a legend, Contra.
Your eye makeup looks so good in this video!
I said no to alcohol but it wouldn't listen.
I'm drunk, but I love your channel so much!!! There is nothing better than coming home after a long day of bla bla at my Institue of romance studies in Germany and watching your Videos again and again. I just love your channel.   But there is one Thing: the third time you sang  your favorite degenerate Things Songs it was somewhat of. MAybe you just started to early but there ist something odd about it.
Gotta love how Contra just assumes that her interpretation of the fall of Rome is _the_ definitive historical interpretation. She's acting like it's settled science. I'm not Alt Right, I'm just a fan of history, and you can't just say that decadence had no effect on the collapse of Rome.
I have no idea what I just watched XD  But I very much enjoyed it :3 I disagree with loads of things you say,  but your presentation style is infections XD
My queen is back !!
Your body of work is amazing and I would follow you into the damn ocean. Bless.
You R by far my fav youtuber ❤😍
Thanks again for great video!
your voice is so pretty, i love that you sing in so many videos!
Your blending has improved so much lately bb
Funny thing: at first I thought that 'feminist' lady must have been an old tape from the eighties or something. Couldn't believe my ears when she mentioned ISIS. Jesus Christ that's sad.
You've really found your voice and style, this is entirely delectable and pertinent. Long live Contra
Please add modern art and artists to you list of degenerates.  As you may recall, they were targeted by the Nazis too. Thanks.
i want someone to love me as much as zoe loves the golden one
It's all about respect. These people droning on about degeneracy just want to disrespect others at will with little consequences and pushback.
haha  when your pathetic safety net falls and you sheep realise that you have nothing but yourselves when shit goes down your limp noodle of a frame wont stand a chance against the wolves. The strong prevail and the weak are crushed!
you have such a good voice!!!
"I blocked my T, I popped my E, let's talk about degeneracy" is a really strong slogan.
Well fuck, I guess I'm a fascist. Thanks Contra. I'll be ordering my swastika flags and browbeat Jews on the internet very shortly.
Every time you poke fun at The Golden One 3 hours are added to my lifespan
We are born of the blood, made men by the blood, undone by the blood; Fear the old blood!
Please do a Degenerate Bath ASMR!
"The Gay movement is about survival, the Fascist movement is about being the only survivor." Absolutely brilliant distillation.
thx
Contra I'm a huge huge fan of your channel and I think you're one of the best videomakers in this left wing youtube community, but even though I enjoy your newer content a whole lot, and plenty of people on your side seem to enjoy it as well, I feel that maybe this new direction your videos are taking might have problems when it comes to engaging people from the other end of the spectrum. what i loved about your older videos is how extremely accessible and personable they were. the down-to-earth nature of them and the way they got right to the point probably made right-wingers more willing to pay attention to the content. even though i, and other leftists, love watching your new videos, i can't help but feel like maybe these videos are too strange and indirect and uninviting to engage right-wingers, and i think that should really be the goal if we don't wanna just keep preaching to the choir. obscuring your arguments in artsy experimental film stuff probably just makes right wingers less likely to make it to the actual arguments and get anything out of the videos, or even be engaged enough to watch past a few minutes. but maybe I'm overthinking it a tad, I mean your videos on free speech and 'The Left' were pretty stellar. I just think that you should generally aim for more accessibility for the sake of the other side understanding you, rather than obscuring everything to the point where your only fans are leftists who already agree with you. i'd love to know your thoughts.
Ill pray for your wicked soul.
This is the first new video of yours I've watched since I subscribed to you. I made the right decision.  Keep doing what you're doing, you're amazing.
EXCUSE ME, but aren't fascists the degenerate one's, since they're ultimately so destructive?
whats ellen got to do with any of this
My favorite degenerate back at it again
contra, you're so beautiful.
"Antifa Furries" hey there
This vid was clever, educational, and hilarious all in one but in all seriousness Contra, though I get that you have a little crush on The Golden One, I know from experience what it is like to be with a narcissist and it isn't fun. They are extremely emotionally abusive. I got a hunch TGO is too into himself to ever truly love anyone else, male or female. So EVEN IF he gives up the Nazism, you still deserve more.
conTRAPoints 🤔
Dat Fleetwood Mac ending <3
First time watching one of your videos, the amount of effort that went into this is amazing. Really enjoyed this, so have yourself a sub. Christ now i've more shit to add the the backlog of stuff to watch.
Pathetic misreading of Nietzche, his views on Christianity were much more complex.
Why was there a picture of Zizek next to that communist quote? I thought Zizek was cool...
Why all the hate for Nietzsche? Yeah he had a lot of fucked up ideas about morality but contributed a lot of work on the body of Nihilism which isn't inherently bad.
Good video.   DON'T YOU DARE SHIT ON NIETZSCHE AGAIN!!!!!
I would happily spend real money for both songs in this video.
I'M FUCKING LIVING FOR GOLD DUST WOMAN
Contra..... Please release an mp3 of your "favorite degenerate things". it might just make my life complete to have that as a ringtone P.S Edit. Also an actual full length ASMR video might also be a good thing. If anything you can continue to make this Leftist Hetero Cis Latino's penis even more confused, and if your confusing my penis then just think of the effect it's having on these puritan breeding obsessed Fascists!
This is damn sad
Is Dr Lydgate Contra's drag-king sister? (Such soft milky skin! Lars should wife her before she gets distracted from the important breeding by "science work" ;-s ) I was most amused by the irony of a person complaining about "androgyny being a problem" while performing her gender with short hair and a butch jacket. Contra is my spirit animal. *hugs*
My soul is lifted when Contra uploads.
Whoo! ROCK'N'ROLL!!
Degeneracy is heresy. Trust in God in his holy war.
You should do Contrapoints ASMR now.
alcohol sucks. I prefer heroin
I think the thing that annoys fascist more than anything about contrapoint is that she is more cultured them.
The small history lessons in these videos are great.
Gobineau also believed that aristocrats were less degenerate than the revolting commoners by virtue of fucking their sisters instead of fucking other races.
Thankyou for working, Contra. I hope your transition goes smoothly and it helps you feel good about life, the Universe and everything.
Contra, your poor liver :(
In the 21st century two kinds of western identity have arisen. The first has embraced western culture's increased tolerance of homosexuality, feminism, and degeneracy etc... as part of the European tradition of liberty and individualism. They believe this liberty is under threat from the invading Muslims who will take away our liberty. People who believe this are Bill Maher, Sam Harris, Dawkins, and Douglas Murray. The second kind of western identity harks bark to a supposed golden age before all this degeneracy and tolerance took hold. They see the rise of liberalism, feminism, individualism and even liberal secular democracy it self as weakness. They think the weakness is what is leaving the west vulnerable to the ostensibly more alpha blacks and Muslims. People who believe this are The Golden One, Richard Spencer, David Duke etc...  It is interesting to see the conflict and conflation of the two. However, I think leftists have to understand the two are very different and require a different strategy to defeat.
''Riley J. Dennis, why did you destroy Rome?'' I haven't laughed out loud that hard in a long time. Thank you.
Did you ever read about  John B. Calhoun's experiments with large rat populations? It's fascination stuff.
I'm a valiant follower of The Golden One, and I certainly think you are a degenerate, that being said I don't want to gas you. You seem like a fun dude and I appreciate the effort you spent on this video and at least you're not fat. But don't touch me or come near me or I will throw you out of a helicopter above Saudi Arabia.
oh and I love your song and your singing!!
10:50 hold the fuck up for a minute, did she actually just say ISIS are the "sane fringe" who uphold the moral ideals of masculinity as the rest of society goes to shit around us? what the fuck is reality anymore
how can you claim feminism and support gender stereotypes for men? for shame Camille
"LOOKS LIKE MEAT IS BACK ON THE MENU BOYS" I fucking lost it
Do we try to normalise our lifestyles or claim ownership of degeneracy as a concept? Anyway wish I could give this more likes I am in love
Fucking hell, Contra. This video is too decadent. I'm literally pregnant.
So you need a drug to "feel good" and "have fun". That is quite pathetic.
What is your current pronoun? P.S. you look fabulous!
15:46 I feel as if I've had this dream before :\
this is so perfect. thank you..
"Most people will probably always be monogamous." I hope not. That certainly was not true in the past. And one can argue most people are not monogamous for themselves today. Universal Polyamory FTW.
Any communist -who- *that* opposes sexual freedom should go directly to gulag.
Not a single argument was made in this video
I dislike decadence that you have to have in order to fit in, or elitist decadence, which is conservatism, decadence of choice or lack of decadence is good liberality, if a gay man doesn't want to do the gay parade he should still be accepted as a gay man, or if a gay man decides to become a monk and asexual then he shouldn't be hated for making that choice, just because he broke your heart Brad, get over it, also getting all those muscles is decadence and frankly kinda gay, I mean he's obsessing over and touching a man's body all the time and squeezing so hard
Man I wish I knew people, fuck A person like you in my real life. I think I would really grow stupendously (selfish)... Are you one of a kind? That would break my heart...
To be fair to Neitzschezewhdzhicdwqjdoiwqchesaezeee, the book he supposedly wrote supporting nazism was an utter bastardization of his views by his nazi-sympathizing sister.
Degeneracy...aslo women who DAF about infantile fuckbois and walking labotomies like " the golden. one"...the are plenty of good dick with personality....
"Feminist, Camile Poglia"  TERFs: vindicating Rush Limbaugh for making up the word "feminazis" since before he was born. Holy shit she's going full-on BlackPigeonSpeaks.
instagram......my pegging spankbank needs MOAAAAAAAR.
I like how you splice in parts of your old videos. It really shows how you've progressed as a creator and as a person.
I do wonder if excessive exposure to radiation over multiple generations would actually overcome evolution and cause slow creeping errors to destroy a population? Not that this actually applies to human civilizations, but I've definitely seen it happen in simulated evolutions.
this is such a thing of beauty.
I'm not sure social conservatives of the Angela Merkel sort would call queers, non-whites, and communists degenerates. That seems more like a hard right thing.
"Auto-gynophilic narcissist" Literally the last problem in the universe. Like, once we solve heat death, we can think about this.
follow up comment: I would pay good money for a full rendition of "these are my favourite degenerate things" as a single
How can androgyny be the sign for the fall of a civilisation when the Renaissance was a turning point in Europe and all art depicted people as angelic and androgynous?
Tubs Talks with Contrapoints continues. And I am here. for it.
SEEING NEW CONTRA UPLOADS IN MY NOTIFICATIONS IS LITERALLY THE HIGHLIGHT OF MY MONTH
Someone mention furries?
Contra everything you create is a work of absolute art, you are a work of art, and thank you.
Does it as degenerate if I just act like a miserable dumbass?
It took FIVE minutes for the video to start. I don't know about the rest of your fans but I'm not into the theatrics that are becoming the major part of your videos.
What's wrong with Nietzsche? :( #TriggeredFuckboy
I love how you pay homage to your old videos
I KNEW RILEY WAS BEHIND THIS
These videos are fun to watch high.
I spend roughly two hours of my day masturbating to X-rated Star Wars parodies. Am I a degenerate?
Will you marry me
This has to be the best created Contrapoints video made so far. It had characters with depth that interacted with each other. Well orchastrated music. Thorough history research. Breaking down of complex philosophy concepts into simplistic chunks. Just beautiful. 😍
Is no one going to mention your singing and playing though? I thought it was great!
god damnit riley
The idea that acceptance and prevalence of LGBT identities eventually leads to the collapse of culture is an incredibly Eurocentric one, there are thousands of cultures all around the world and all throughout history which readily accepted LGBT and gender non-conforming people and which had lasted for centuries and still exist to this day. To say that LGBT acceptance causes the collapse of civilizations is to ignore pretty much every single culture and civilization on the planet!
I thought Neitzsche wanted us to move past both Master and Slave mentality? Or was that Hegel?
At 12:05 is that TolstoyKafkaEvsky? He’s one of my favorite youtubers ever. I am shocked to seem him pop up here, considering his small subscriber count.
Contra, you are the amazing degenerate hero we need <3 thank you for posting videos and not giving a fuck. Huge fan here!
baby i love you
Riley J Dennis single-handedly destroyed the Roman empire RIP
i need "favorite degenerate things" on itunes
How did you know I was taking a bath while watching this? Anyway, thanks for the offer but you set my rug on fire.
Not your best work. Takes far too long to get to the point, There is an art to saying more with less. Still good points but I didn't have all day to sit through this.
I am all for being a bougie bitch.
Contra is the sexy libertarian hero we need. 😍
Tankies and terfs get the wall, too
Mao killed a lot of gays because they were an individualistic and bourgeois idea.
Loving the Fleetwood Mac at the end! "Sex, Drugs, Feminism, Rock & Roll" is how I wanna live my life
Generates FTW
God, your videos are just the best.
the masqarade Fopington regalia is my new aesthetic. one of your best works to date Contra, it was awesome!!!
I see someone received their check.   I'm still waiting on mine.
Just wanted to say your voice training is really amping up your singing! Love it! <3
I see you brought back the air horn in this video as you said in your last livestream. I quite like it.
As always, love the decadent aesthetic of your videos and the different perspective that you bring.  That said, I hope that you might consider Camille Paglia's arguments again in a future video.  Her perspective certainly does warrant a response given that she wrote the book on art and decadence (her "Sexual Personae" is the extension of a doctoral thesis advised by Harold Bloom and has been an influence on people such as David Bowie).  Not to mention that she considers herself to be transgender.
only contra is allowed to say "meat's back on the menu, boys" from now on, istg
Contra, was the "communists" with air quotes supposed to be the Jews? Well played. haha
Contrapoints ASMR channel!😎
Brilliance
Why do your videos look and sound  so much like porn, I have to watch them at midnight to avoid the explaining.
Contra you're the best oh my gosh
OMFG you combined pretty much everything discussed in the last livestream into this video!! Love it! XD
3:40 Pause. Frantic search through literal Nazi's instagram. Dodge actual literal Nazi memes. Is that a squirrel knight? So I should have coffee and a pretzel dog before a workout? Too deep. Send help.
how the fuck do you even drink absinthe to begin with, it tastes like licorice corpse  good video btw
I love your videos and wonderful degenerate ways. Also, since when could you sing??!!
Here's the thing: if you don't tolerate degeneracy, the only option is the empowerment of puritanical individuals and giving them control over our lives. If the choice is allowing some weird practices or giving our rights to choose our way of life to some moral busybodies, I'll take the degenerates any day. If that makes me one of them, then so be it
DEAR GOD NO NOT CAMILLE PAGLIA
Really love that you go after right-wingers and right-wing sympathizers with humor. It works better than any overly emotional reactionary response which takes itself too seriously. I've been waiting for a long time for somebody to call out the bullshit peddled by people like Camille Paglia and Dave Rubin  while being thoroughly entertaining. Good job!
Great cover!
Love your science outfit.
Damn. Perfect.
Nietzsche just wanted us to be happy, and what does he get in return?
Great video! Thank you
Your robe is so nice! I want one! That transformation was magical.
14:20.  I'm in love.
You are the master of viewer retention lol. I didn't realize this video was 25min. Oh my God, you're creative. I love your channel omg.
0:48 is that something The Golden One actually made?  Does he really see himself that way?  Performance enhancers.  Not even once.
This might just be your best video IMO
When will I be able to buy your new hit single “My Favorite Degenerate Things” on iTunes???
Fuck yeah Antifa Furries.  Make the Fandom Great Again. Punch all the Nazis out of the Fandom, tell em to choke on their Bad Dragons, in the not sexy way.
Yeah! Nietzsche sucks.
You hate yourself, he loves himself. It’s obvious his views are healthier than yours.
Holy fuck, you're a talented musician.
"The queer quest is to survive. The fascist quest is to be the only survivor." Wow, great line!
[sees the golden one and immediately presses like]
lordy, stupidity of camille paglia really triggers me. on the other hand it's almost amazing to watch that kind of nothingness passing as an intello while doing no more, than recycling really very 19th century common places bullshit. (a prank that went out of control!)
Big fan, always love your show - but on that Nietzsche jazz, for reals, pls watch this yo-  https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ti9zdpLlXf0
There is no way I'm going to stop fangirling to you and there's nothing you can do to stop me ♥
What is the english term for "vergonha alheia"? Third party shame? Cause everytime the golden one in on the screen I feel so ashamed for him that I literally have to look at my phone and away from my computer screen until it is gone x.x   Anyway, always great to have our lovely Contra back on our screen.  Amazing video as always
Abigail! Don't listen to Contra! Get back to the trenches and ready your baseball bat! The Fash are coming!
I cannot believe Camille Paglia was EVER taken seriously.
Love that song at the end
I'm so glad you are working more Heathers references into your videos! I love this!!!
I've never really thought of myself as queer, but if it's that "your gender is all fucked up or you have creative taste in sexual partners," well, then, damn. I guess I'm queer af.
ZIZEK  ps your voice sounds great
Funny how you don't want to get on Nietzsche's internet show. Heshtig bi-iz
As a student of all things Rome, the traditionally feminine and degenerate traits that I assume these 1800s writers are discussing are present in the later weak willed puppet emperors. Nero was somewhat traditionally feminine and Elagabalus was possibly driven insane with power-coated gender-dysphoria, however batshit crazy emperors like Commodus and Caligula were sex craved, fighting, rich bitch, killers. Commodus was a manly af man. You should also consider that many Rome was so patriarchal it makes today's men look like slaves in comparison, if you wanted to make an emperor look bad you said they were sex crazed or feminine, I was just what they did because that what the antithesis of the classical roman morals.  The reasons for the fall of rome are beyond numerous wealth divide, all the economy, climate fluctuations, political landscape, military changes, (fuck it you can hate me) Adrianople, le Huns to an extent, and many more. What annoyed me a little is how you disregard the idea that the actions of the political leaders of 1st and 2nd century could have any baring on the 3rd, 4th and 5th. It would be like saying the actions of the founding fathers have in no way effected the america today. I mostly agree with your conclusion but your reasoning is weirdly off for you. You can see how the lack of attention on dividing barbarian groups in the 3rd century led to larger more organise groups of barbarians to deal with in the 5th.
god damn it you're fuckin brilliant
*drops glass* Could the jews be responsible?
I love this and I love you. Excellent video! Great job. : )
I have to idea how or why but sadly, even some people who understand the need for economic equality can't come to terms with social equality
your weakest video yet. Only further convinced me of your degenerate faggotry
spicy ANOHNI-style at the end
Lol yes more golden one
damnb contra u thicc
TIL NOOOOOOOOOOOW
I _loved_ your little song there! "These are my favorite degenerate things..."
Great production value.
Thank you for the entire video but especially that hysterical ASMR bit and forever changing (enhancing?) the way I watch The Sound of Music from now on <3
Listing George Soros as a patron hahahaha I love you.
Every contra video has lead up to this point. This is truly peak contra.
I love that you made a video about this! I've been wondering if other leftists were noticing the huge uptick in use of this word among the right and "centerists" who like to be edgy.
this video is so aesthetically delightful
Gold Standard now
Watching a ContraPoints video is like an acid trip. Always a lot of surrealist mind screwing going on.
damn girl you put down a 40 better than I do
Contra i hate that youve made me an avid youtube fan but youre just too fantastic ily and ur pink light and ur feminine vaporwavy a e s t h e t i c 💕
An epilepsy warning would be nice. Still liked the video though.
If I may be so bold to ask, you use q*eer as a umbrella term for the LGBT+ community, right?
"antifa furries" hi contra! thanks for the acknowledgement!
Yas bitch tickle them ivories <3
You are drop dead gorgeous in that outfit! Those legs are amazing <33
Im eating an apple in a hot bubble bath right now in your honor.
I can just feel the testosterone from him lol
Listen Contra, that's not how you prepare absinthe. Any real hedonist would know this.
I ship The Golden One and Contrapoints  This is now canon.
OMG I LOVE YOUR VIDEOS , I like you MIAMI 80s soft KITSCH STYLE
W H E A T  F I E L D S
I must've watched this 100 times today...oh mama! 😁😁😁
We don't deserve Contrapoints.
You're my favorite youtuber right now! Thank you for posting consistently awesome content, I've learned so much through you :) keep it up
How many of the repulsive imbeciles offending you wank at the radiant knight of the 4th reich's instagram, I wonder. The GO might one day change due to your videos :D. And even Abigail...and Paglia !
<3
Drink every time Camille Paglia says ok
You are so incredibly educated and well spoken. I'm intimidated just watching your amazing videos.  Yesterday, my father asked me how to get to my daughter's school, I couldn't form a complete sentence, in order to answer him.  I'm certain, writing a script helps. Are you this articulate when the camera is off?
I guess what bothers me is that everything in your video is really typical stuff from elementary school. It's the Nice White Lady view of history, where white people's racism is the only geopolitical concern, that the only ideology we have to deal with is Nazism. There are other things going on in the world that affect and constitute the Pax Americana opulence you're lazily adrift atop.
Wow, from now on I won't be able to avoid associating the sound of music with cock rings... Thanks, Contrapoints!
i love u so fucking much
Can I just say the doctor's makeup is straight up G-O-R-G-E-O-U-S; Like fuck lady you're givin' me complexes on my makeup game~
Would bathe degenerately with Contra tbh.
RILEY. J. DENNIS!!!! WHY?????? Ohhh my lord that killed me :P
Contra and the Golden One. I ship it.
Ok i just gotta say that you are SO CUTE
TL;DR Degeneracy is literally anything that any right-winger personally dislikes.  Also, ancient Greece and feudal Japan were possibly the gayest societies of all time. Both lasted for centuries. If anything, the Chinese believe that libertarians destroy societies and weak government combined with libertarian ideas is associated with societal weakness and dynastic or revolutionary changes. South Americans believe that authoritarianism destroys societies since South American dictatorships and illiberal democracies on the continent tend to either fall apart or get conquered.  What usually causes societies to fall IMO is a lack of legitimacy. Nationalism and tribalism literally ruin more societies than anything other than being invaded. Nationalism literally caused the destruction of both Yugoslavia and the Soviet Union and even today, the United States and European Union are being ripped apart by competing nationalisms.
That Abigail closeup....cinematic masterpiece
contra's voice sounds a lot like a cartoon character from a show when I was a kid but I can't figure out what show ??????
I'm barely 3 minutes in and I have to say in this video feels great to watch. It's got all the humour and sauciness that first attracted me to your channel and you just seem so much happier and present within yourself. Also I'm so pleased you're doing a recap on The Golden One hahahaha :P You look amaaaaaaaazing darling <3
The Late (Western) Roman Empire was the Empire at its most conservative and religious.  How come none of us on the left talk about how descent into introspective racism and conservatism destroyed Rome and let everyone keep up the myth of "the orgy and the fall".
trans people are isis? God paglia is trash and no wonder the righties and internet trash cite has as one of the, like, 3 'good' feminists.
You're wonderful. Your videos are wonderful. "These are my favorite degenerate things."
God I loathe Camille Paglia
The unintentional homo-eroticism of most of TheGoldenOne's content is so thick, I swear it feels like parody.
I think you're reading too much into the term degenerate, most people just use it to mean "thing i don't like". When I use it I specifically use it as a shorthand for a range of behaviors that are risky and don't lead to good outcomes. Drug abuse, promiscuous sex, criminal behavior, or any overindulgence in something that becomes unhealthy. Also keep in mind that a degenerating civilization has been part of western ideas since the ancient greeks. See: The origin of the term "Golden Age"  https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ages_of_Man Also that's an extremely bad and uncharitable reading of Gibbon who actually blamed Christianity for the fall of the Roman Empire or at least a contributing factor.
Contra you have my entire heart ❤💛💚💙💜💖🖤
his name is lars?
Yup, we degenerates get to claim Rock and Roll, fellas! The Godmother of Rock 'N Roll is Sister Rosetta Tharpe, a bisexual black woman. She influenced Chuck Berry, Elvis Presley, Jerry Lee Lewis, and literally everyone else who came after.
brilliant
There is a dot. . . There is a dot at 6:41 that remains in the same place a majority of the of the illustrations and the reading. Why!?!?!
Hey are you aware the link that is meant to go to free speech part 1 actually goes to Christopher Hitchins' speech in full?
Well you have just made my evening Contra! 😍😍😍
Really enjoyed this Contra redux <3
lol fuckboy philosophy WHY IS THAT SO TRUE?!
I seriously want a ContraPoints ASMR channel so bad.
Getting both Jim Sterling AND The Golden One in your comment section? Your net (and presumably, legs) is spreading wide and deep, now!
Pleeeeeeeaaaaaaasssssseeee actually go on the Rubin report
20:22 "fascists want a society where only people like them are aloud to exist"... sounds like riley dennis
The golden one can work out all he wants, but it won't make his face any less ugly.
I'm not sure what to say except, ContraPoints, I love you and your videos are the best stuff ever. ♡
This was a treat from beginning to end. #BlessedByTheDarkMother
CONTRA I WANT TO HOLD YOUR HAND IN A ROMANTIC SITUATION
Ugh I'm in love with you 💖
How fuckin disgustin
Probably my new favorite ContraPoints video. What I wouldn't give for an mp3 of a full-length version of 'My Favorite Degenerate Things'
longest, weirdest set up to a porn i've ever thoroughly enjoyed
100000/10 vid
instantly liked the video when i heard the words "the golden one"
The moment I saw the King Cobra I said, out loud, "oh no!" in am embarrassingly anguished way.
"Thus, a good man, though a slave, is free; but a wicked man, though a king, is a slave. For he serves, not one man alone, but, what is worse, as many masters as he has vices." - St. Augustine, City of God, writing at the time of the collapse of the Roman Empire. St. Augustine both revolutionized and brought to a close antiquity's idea of freedom. A man was not a slave by nature or by law, as Aristotle claimed. His freedom was a function of his moral state. A man had as many masters as he had vices. This insight would provide the basis for the most sophisticated form of social control known to man.  Sexual liberation has, from its inception, been a form of control. Those who wished to liberate man from the moral order needed to impose social controls as soon as they succeeded because liberated libido led inevitably to anarchy. Aldous Huxley wrote in his preface to the 1946 edition of Brave New World that "as political and economic freedom diminishes, sexual freedom tends compensatingly to increase." These days, we are experiencing the converse of that statement. The rhetoric of sexual freedom is used to engineer a system of covert political and social control. Over the course of the two-hundred-year span, the development of technologies of communication, reproduction, and psychic control - including psychotherapy, behaviorism, advertising, sensitivity training, pornography, and plain old blackmail - allowed the Enlightenment and its heirs to turn Augustine's insight on its head and create masters out of men's vices.
This whole video is my aesthetic.
I think we're going to need an MP3 track of Degenerate Things
'Queer' is not so much tinged with a connotation of rebellion as it is tinged with a connotation of strangeness or abnormality. The rebellion thing is a contemporary attempted reinterpretation in some circles.
woulds't thou like to live DELICIOUSLY?
fun fact, in Spanish (and some other latin-based languages), "genus", "genre", and "gender" are all the same word (not surprising seeing as how they come from the same root word), so "degenerate" is typically also used to mean "away from traits associated with your..." you guessed it, Gender! (which, of course, is seen as unchanging and locked in place at birth given to you by your sex, because......????)
There's a pretty strong parallel here with Eugen Sandow, one of the first bodybuilders and originators of 'physical culture'. His whole schtick and popularity was bound up in high-empire/late-colonial concerns about lost golden ages and degeneracy/emasculation. He wanted to imitate Grecian statuary (which itself was anatomically impossible and, unknown europeans at the time, very gaudily painted not austere puritan marble), unsurprisingly Eugen did not live with his wife but with an similarly buff Dutch pianist (a fact that usually gets purged from his wikipedia article).  The whole charles Atlas/mr Universe/Golds Gym thing owes everything to him and Victorian ennui, Oh and his parents were Jewish. Oh and he was born in Prussia but left to lecture everyone on masculinity and coincidently just in time to dodge the draft.  Also in terms of dionysian new-man progressives there's always Charles Fourrier and his fairies.
The worst part of finishing a new Contrapoints video is knowing you'll have to wait weeks for another 😭😭😭
Post Contra, all TERFs will be forever known as Abigail :D
Uhh, can we get a recording of the music number
19:04 Don't worry, the classical liberals have your back
God I love you...
Your content gives me an intellectual orgasm.
voice of an angel.
YEEEEEAH!
When you and Jim Sterling show up in the same comment section, you're doing it right
I need a piano tutorial on that rock n roll cover of Gold Dust Woman.
There HAS to be an iTunes complete version of "my favorite degenerate things"! Please Contra I need this!
I actually hope you can get on the Rubin Report one of these days. That would be awesome, and would let Dave Rubin prove that he really is accepting of many viewpoints. You’re pretty reasonable, too.
actually, it WAS the jews. give us some credit :)
Oh my. Natalie, you're the greatest. I find myself looking at you the same way you look at The Golden One. Keep up the glorious work! <3 <3 <3
ABSOLUTELY BARBARIC
Easily your best video yet. Nearly burst a blood vessel holding in laughter when you knocked the glass over jfc
Best of your videos so far, your show is really developing its own style, very fun, weird and an unusual kind of joy. Keep it up. Ever thought on buying a big glass goblet?
If I get charged 10 before I get paid tomorrow and can't buy cigarettes today, I swear to god, GULAG!
Some people would call me fascist, or nazi, or racist if you prefer, I'm not really sure anymore(my quess would be just nationalist, I don't really care that much about economics for as long as it makes my nation rise) but anyway if you want opinion, here's mine: you can live and you can enjoy yourself. But not in my country(people are dumb, when the degeneracy is present it will eventually poison most of us even if we warn about it's consequences). Ideally this would be resolved(in my mind at least) by giving you your safe space(piece of conquered land or something like that, maybe part of country, if it's one of the larger ones and not as small as mine), and giving us our safe space(you could not enter or contact citizens of that country that created said safe space for it's decadent citizens). Would that be acceptable to you?
I loved this video
YOUR SINGING IS AWESOME!
Your voice is sounding so good!! Thanks for another fantastic video!! <3
...is Camille Paglia drunk in that clip...? O.o
What can I say? I love you Contra! Marry me!
A good thing to ask White Nationalists is the point where individual queers/jews/etc become "international jewry" or "the gay agenda" and watch their reaction. They inevitably dive deep into the intangible large scale forces at work in our culture, which is the best time to point out that forces like systemic racism and sexism work in the same way, and ask why social conservatives treat them as absurd. This is the point where you can start having a human conversation, in my experience, as you've thrown out as much ideological baggage as possible and engage them at a point of similarity. It's a starting point for empathy, which might seem repugnant to some, but unfortunately even nazis are people too. We can't change anyone's beliefs, but we can encourage them to think deeply about them (and our own). As much as it's sexy to think that we're fighting against these people, we aren't. We need to live with and work with them, as the only alternatives require that we give up our humanity.
Dang... might be my new favorite. Excellent
I love you at the piano, Contra.
I seriously love this... So much
Awww, I like Nietzsche. He's very funny, if nothing else. He just has a lot of bad fans.   Just realised Nietzsche is the Rick And Morty of philosophers. Huh.
Bloody 70s Yankee Leninists. #NotAllLeft
i have notifs on and im gonna nut i love you
"Pace yourself".  You pounded that 40 pretty fast tho.  BTW, how is King Cobra?  I've never seen that outside of your videos.
Your videos are works of art.  Thank you for all you do!
And the video closes with one of my favorite songs.
Not enough Beardsley giant cock drawings for a video references decadence IMO, though I don't know how Youtube feels about illustrated cocks, so fair enough missing them out I guess. *pouts a little*.
is Foppington an example of the effeminate baddie trope?
20:25 Hmm... to survive or to dominate... for human this should have obvious answer considering that we are dominant on this planet. Pig is surviving, human is dominating.
Good but not enough Golden One™
i just had a degenerate bath and now i can relax and look at the golden one and get more degenerated with contra. amazing
i keep falling deeper and deeper in love with you with each video
Your videos are always on point~ <333 Let's be degenerates together!
Degeneracy is all it's cracked up to be.
i think Lars is an autoandrophile
Damn, the whispering bath scene was hilarious and your ending monologue was beautiful...
Ironically, Paglia is the physical manifestation of androgyny.
As a hard-core tankie communist, that paper quoted at 18:42 really pisses me off. In the poorly translated book, Engels was referring to "Boy-love" or Pedophilia found in Greek mythology.  The author trying to rework it into an anti-LGBT message is nothing short of revisionist garbage.
invent him? he's the rocky to your frank
Possibly the best one youve made ever hot damn
I knew it! George Soros is funding you! ;D
This pal is a Contrapoints fan
Hello, The Golden One follower here. I don't know why The Golden One was brought up in this video so many times other than you're trying to shame him and suppress his work. I follow his teachings because they've basically become lost in this generation. Everyone wants to stand out and be edgy and be unique. Be different. I get it. The ideology of wanting to be normal has almost become lost. As shown in this video, He can't even promote living a normal lifestyle without being attacked. His primary teachings are go to the gym, be healthy, successful, read, respect women, don't attack others, don't sabotage your life, don't sabotage others, etc.. These are values that seem to be slipping away from society. And this video is a part of the problem. He's being sabotaged for it. It's symbolic of what's happening in the world. Suppress the thoughts of those who don't agree with you. The Golden One isn't doing that, you are doing that to him. As are many others. And about the race thing, I've seen him support the likes of Assad and Gaddafi. Support the RIGHTFUL governments of their respective countries. Is saying, "We don't want millions of people flooding into our countries at once" as bad as bombing the ever living shit out them like liberal leaders have been doing the past 8 years? "We came. We saw. He died." Liberals are the ultimate hypocrites. Not saying you're a liberal or anything. But you're at the very least on the same page with them as to where you stand with the suppressing of the views of those who don't agree with you. We're in an era where you're shamed and attacked for just wanting to be normal. I don't see any of The Golden One supporters out rioting in the streets, shaming people for their views, telling people "hey it's ok to sabotage yourself!" It's the total opposite. And his following is far from just whites. Try reading the comments on his videos or see what his followers look like on other social media. His channel is about improvement, not "hey let's tear each other apart." That seems to be more along the lines of what this video is doing. . . On another note, One day civilization is gonna collapse and it's gonna be survival of the self sufficient. Another TOP PRIORITY reason why I feel it's important for me personally to follow The Golden One. We're gonna reach a point here where all these petty scuffles are gonna be meaningless when we're all on our own. So I choose personally to follow a man who's made me aware of that and help prepare for that. Overall you've helped me even further understand why I choose to follow The Golden One. You're doing to him what you're accusing him of doing. . . That part where you read YouTube Comments attacking you, I actually don't agree with that at all that they say that to you. That was indeed rude and uncalled for. But I can ASSURE you those aren't The Golden One followers. That is definitely NOT what he teaches. Sorry but by bringing him into this, you missed the mark. Maybe you can convince people who don't actually know what he's about, but anyone who's followed him and his teachings will quickly be aware by how far you missed the mark on this
nietzsche did nothing wrong :(  well ok maybe the misyogynistic language and the reproduction of antisemitic rhetoric aswell, ok i take it back i guess
So glad I saw this on the Sterling subreddit. You are genius!
😘
George soros is a patreon. Hahaha
You're terrible at pretending to be a woman
Amazing, as ever. Thank you for making my morning significantly less shit. Also, you're such a beautiful singer Natalie ❤️
My gender's all fucked up, so I guess I'm a degenerate!
I need a "My Favorite Things" - Contra Points edition; just have my money plz.
lol George Soros
Luckily communists have mostly dropped social conservatism over time. The major exception I can think of is the KKE in Greece.
This is fucking the lowest point of humanity, what the actual fuck is this degenerate doing alive?
My favorite recurring character is the bathub.  Just kidding, every one of Contra's characters rock
How have I only now found ContraPoints? Everything about this is stellar. Content is great, production value is great
OMG, this was wonderful. Needed this because I have to deal with this bigoted internet troll of a coworker at the grocery store I work at, and all the snark in the video has made me feel much better.  Also, hi comments section, you are so fun to read!  And now I really need an "Abigail, What's Your Damage?" t-shirt. And for Riley to know she was mentioned in the video because I'm an internet fangirl and I have no chill.
Am I degenerate if I want The Golden One to beat the shit out of me?
I thought Contra identified as genderqueer? Has Contra come out as trans since then?
Really!!!!  Because some communists didn't agree with homosexuality IN THE 70s, that must mean that ALL COMMUNISTS are calling the LGBT community "bourgeois decadents"! wtf!
Never has degeneracy looked so sexy. Goddamn.
Now I'm going to have the song stuck in my head
This may be your best work yet.
Once again,brilliant. I don't know what wizardry you use,but as a staunch centrist,you are the only ''sjw'' channel i enjoy. Your work is benefiting more people than you realize. Stay fabulous and awesome,you degenerate you
i never really appreciated the word decadense as much as i should.
Yasssss, your videos just keep getting better, i love it!! Omg, i just watched that Paglia trash the other week, lol.
I thank you for doing the favorite things bit. I loved that song from Fear and loathing
they say degenerate but all i am seeing is trans-generate  transitional genius , progressive creative  mindblown
admit it, you just make these videos for a excuse to get really fucking drunk.
Yas The Golden One Video!!!!
Contra I'd go straight for you
RILEY J. DENNIS... Why did you destroy Ancient Rome?
the beauty and the beast theme intro made me cackle when I realized you were going to talk about the golden one  amazing work as always 💕
This is some of your finest work, you are officially my degenerate queen <3
Looking forward to your inevitable and inevitably stunning one-person show on Broadway.
Pure Genius!
Do you guys think ”The golden One” is a secret bottom?
you would like anti reptoid radio
MMMM! PINKLITE FOR LIF!
Etymology does not dictate meaning
Maybe my new fav video of all time I mean damn girl.
Why is it that mighty gods die yet The Golden One stands incorruptible?
I saved this video for when I got home so I could unwind with it... I am quite happy 💕💕💕
Awww, I was reading Nietzsche when I was 19... Great video, I think I'm scaring neighbours laughing loud.
I never realized Camille Paglia was such a loonie.
Cease this heresy Slaanesh.
This channel is pure fucking art.
Mother of God that first scene was just abusive. You don't treat Green Fairy that way you fucking fairy. That's Alcohol abuse, it should be taken from you and brought to a good Bartender. You know absinthe has paraphernalia to make the better drink for you. Makes me sick seen absinthe being treated that way.
One thing I'm a little surprised you only briefly touched on is the idea of bourgeois decadence. I.e., setting aside acres of land just so the wealthy can play golf on it, driving around in a giant SUV you don't need, plating your penthouse suite in gold like a certain president I could name, etc. I think the resentment toward that kind of decadence comes from a very different place than the fascists' idea of decadence.
I'm a gay furry mentally ill communist. I guess you could call me an Uber-degenerate. Take that, Nietzsche!
Every time I watch a video by The Golden One, I can't help but be amazed at just how big the closet he's filming is.
Take a shot everytime Abigail blinks.
1855: "Humans have an inherent disgust toward the crossing of bloodlines." 2017: "Uh...yeah, we have DNA from a half-dozen other hominins in our genome because we fucked everything we encountered."
as someone who enjoys alcohol, from the bottom of my heart i loathe the fact that alcoholism is glorified or that alcohol-drinking in general is positively regarded  i mean enjoy yourself all you want, but these people who go around saying if you don't black out every weekend you're not [insert positive trait]  fuck
My longest "YAAAAASS" ever.
I've done it. I've found the perfect YouTube video. I'm a transfeminine historian that has studied EXACTLY what the doctor was talking about. I. LOVE. YOU. You brought back the alcohol, you made fun of your past videos when you burped and you sang your beautiful voice regardless of your transition (which I still have issues with myself because I also have a half-decent baritone and used to LOVE singing). And the caveat at the end was great for deflecting criticism. Perfection, Nat <3
That surprise ASMR gave me serious tingles. Then cracked me up.  This was quite a trip. A rollercoaster. One of your best work to date.  But please take the time to sleep and care for yourself - we need you to age like fine wine, not to burn out.
In an attempt to regain a certain magic this video ended up being completely derivative. You've folded into yourself contrapoint
So my idea of calling you "generate" doesn't work either . . . I guess I'll have to just have to settle for the less fascie "super swell."
so fucking talanted
That antigay commie quote is kind of cherry picked, most communists I know are queer of some sort like me
The guys in the article at 19:00 can go fuck themselves.   Sincerely, a Marxist-Leninist.
this video is oddly erotic and i love it
I disagree with u on a few points, but overall your video was not bad. One of the things I would disagree on is pride parade. I’m a gay guy and I think the parades are too sexual. I believe they should be kid friendly. That way young LGBT teens can attend. And Gay parents can bring their kids. At its current state though, I believe pride parades are too sexual.        I think doing this with also improve the LGBT’s image with more culturally conservative people’s views of us. That doesn’t mean we can’t have sex or finishes. This just means to keep it in private. Keep all the sexual stuff in the bedroom. This just means dress appropriately and act appropriately in public. And by dressing appropriately, I mean not dressing super sexual. There is a time and a place for everything.
I think my friends are mostly antifa furries and enby drag kings
i love the development of like your own very specific internal visual vocabulary to indicate tone (like the science getup to indicate we are no longer being joking)
This is maybe your best video yet.  So damn good.
This is the best one yet!
Just want you to know that (most) communist parties today have corrected their line on LGBTQ+. There cannot be full liberation from capitalism without LGBTQ+ liberation. A communist newspaper written in 1976 by one party does not mean that the vast majority of communists see you as one of our comrades :). I love your videos btw ContraPoints, but just felt I should say this (if you even see it). Keep rocking and rolling comrade ✊️
H Y P E
Just throwin it out there but wash your grapes before you eat them.
I feel like some of your skits/gags drag out a little too long in this video. Its funny for a brief moment, but I found myself skimming through them to get back to your video essay's main thesis.
I am so happy I have been keeping up with your channel for over a year. You get more awesome as time goes on and you have educated me as well.
This is the best YouTube video ever created.
Hey Contra, Glad to see you having fun :) there's a real celebratory atmosphere to this video that your recent episodes have lacked. I feel like you had fun making this episode, so I had fun watching. Your fellow degenerate, Charlotte
(((patrons)))  hahaha
Love you!
Wasn't Nietzsche's first book about dionysus? Also the song was fabulous.
Awesome cover btw. 🤘
Damn, I’m gonna have to google search what EVERY SINGLE SONG listed in the description has EVER BEEN IN just to figure out what I recognize the opening from, ugh
I... I think it's working Contra. I'm normally the most masc kind of gay man there is, I'm all about the bears and the daddies and the rampant body hair, but after watching your video today I felt a bit... femmy. I got out my Heart records and wine and had an herbal bath. What are you doing to me? What is the meaning of this?!
Don't understand why you're so against free speech. A lot of people probably want too shut you down. But even being alt-right myself, i appreciate learning you're point of view.
By Macragge's Honour, what Slaaneshy heretic is this?
"This doesn't deserve a response, let's move on." I love your vids, and wish you the best on your journey, but you'll always look weak when you consistently fail to respond to these arguments.
Could we get a supercut where its just your argument and cut all the gay shit out.
ew
Your videos literally keep me alive, by the way. Thank you for giving me a fucking reason.
Is the doctors hair pink or is that just the lighting? Also good video :)
My Favorite Degenerate Things Song: 14:20 , 15:28 & 18:05
I just discovered your channel a week ago, and I've burned through everything in a week. Love the channel, girl! Keep it coming!
She didn't say that queers make the decline she said queers are the symptom!
Definitely the most wtf is going on contra video in a good way
If I can defend Nietzsche, his original works were repurposed and reprinted by his sister and her husband after he died. They were huge anti-Semitic fascist assholes. Because of that, most of his original works never made it to America; only his altered versions.  His original works would actually piss off a lot of edgelords, and is kind of uplifting.   The slave morality in its original form was just a declaration not to receive your moral systems from people above you without any element of critical thought.   But, yeah, fuck Nietzsche, at least in his popular incarnation.
I dont think there's very many modern communists who argue that gayness is bougie.  Using a tract from 1976 seems pretty misleading to be honest.
I need to be more degenerate
Do a more thorough takedown of Camille Paglia. I'm being slowly converted to the dark side by "Sexual Personae"
omg contra how do you keep one-upping yourself this is amazing
love your new blues voices !!!  In my fanfic cockbane's mother is friend with angela davis and has been fighting since the 60, being the SJW warrior she can never be.
Oh, any to any fash: degeneracy will win.
Wagner is boring af
You're pretty 😍
Wow, not only are you really funny, your a good singer too!
I fucking died at (((Patrons))), how long has Contra been doing that?
she's not a mom but contra gives me serious milf vibes
You really look great!
Would that pink flashing text be a seizure risk? https://youtu.be/9BlNGZunYM8?t=502
george soros! lol
#RileyDestroyedRome
Riley J Dennis, destroyer of empires.
I love when you sing also I love you
"There's plenty of time to blackout when you're dead"   I found that oddly comforting.
Fucking amazing, as always. Stay beautiful, Contra :)
Teach me mommy.
I really need a full version of the degenerate things song
Marijuana is safer than Alcohol.
Lost it at George Soros being the top of the Patron list. Awesome work.
18:36 well they're tankies Contra what do you expect?
your best video yet.
I don't want to be *that* girl but my Marxist tradition, the Trotskyist tradition stemming from the International Socialists, never held the reactionary position that queer liberation was bourgeois.
Don't lump in social conservatives with fascists.  Most social conservatives have nothing against racial minorities and the disabled.  I mean it can depend on what you mean by social conservative, I think of people like Ben Shapiro, who is anti-fascist.
Pretty tangential, but at what point does the process of being a cultural melting pot turn into cultural appropriation?   If we allow minorities to adopt "white" customs but not the other way around, isn't that effectively suppressing the spread of their cultures while encouraging the spread of "white" culture?   Why should we be discouraging white people from wanting to participate in other cultures? Culture isn't necessarily a zero-sum game; Contra wearing a grill doesn't prevent any black person from wearing a grill.
I often use the word degenerate but I use towards things like Abrahamism/religious totalitarianism, traditionalism, blind patriotism etc. I view them as elements of our society that often degrade nations. Am I the only one? Before coming across trad culture online my understanding of the word from reading plays and what not was that it's your subjective values of whats considered bad in a culture. Oh well
I -love- how Pur Ti Miro has come to symbolize pouring milk on yourself and your thing with The Golden One. Are you insinuating that TGO is a bit like Nero?
OMG this vid!!! :D a couple things :  - I died of laughter at Abigail being told to respect a woman's privacy, just to resurect from the dead to learn about the history of degenerates like me, and how we are actually... kind of like priests ?!!!  -The communist movement used to be as homophobic as general society, but things have changed ! Just to give a couple examples, the New people's army in the Philippines recognises same-sex marriage and a  couple maoists recently congratulated me on joining an LGBT org, so don't worry  we have allies :) -But MOST IMPORTANTLY : STOP LYING TO YOURSELF GIRL YOU ACTUALLY WISH YOU WERE AN ASMR ARTIST. You have been making way too many videos mocking ASMR not to actually join the gang of weirdos like me whispering stupid shit in a microphone. And i'm sure you'd be good at it :)
Degeneracy is underrated.
Just. Marry me. Please? ❤️
Nietzsche went to my boarding school (or I went to his former school) and I can totally see how he would come up with his philosophy there.
Why am I disturbed by the color scheme? Part of me is wanting this to be more sunny. Is contra getting enough vitamin d?
I love you so much, Contra. I disagree with you on like 65% of your opinions, but I'll never stop appreciating the amount of effort you put into making your videos entertaining.
This IS a new favorite term, of a certain set isn't it? But then, I've been using "reprobate" a lot the past two years....
1:40 Alone by Heart again! Yay!
VIDEO OF THE YEAR
I'm watching this in public and trying not to look like a laughing lunatic... I'm only 2 minutes in xD
Oh my god. I was not ready.
That 19:46 disclaimer bit is key. Instalike.
According to this video essay at least, Nietzsche’s philosophy doesn’t say that the master morality is superior. Instead it’s that slave morality was created in response to Master morality. Slave morality stated that they were superior only because they we’re suppressed. The person who sees both of these moral structures as wrong and learns form them both, moves beyond their moral constraints and becomes an übermensch. https://youtu.be/ti9zdpLlXf0
Your video making gaming is ON POINT! I hope my subscribers all subscribe to you. I especially like how you give historical context for terms and movements. It helps a lot to understand everything you're talking about.
I really appreciate all of the callbacks to previous videos.
love all the callbacks to previous videos in this one. theres the golden one, the king cobra, and the airhorns. im sure theres more im missing but this is not only a really good video but also a fun one cuz of all the callbacks
I think modern communists are generally very pro-LGBT now. I know I am.
Contrapoints, planning on doing a video of redice?
I watched your stream on your original Golden One video and how that was your most Contrapoints video, and this one is not only referential in the most glorious way, but you have out Contrapointed yourself more than I thought possible. This is max Contrapoints. I don't know what would happen if you get any more Contrapointsy than this, a societal restructuring of catastrophic proportions?
Also thank you for dragging Paglia
Degenerates like you belong on a cross.
I really need a list of all of the Counterpoint characters and their names so I can start identifying them in conversation
this is a beautiful, glorious masterpiece & i love the singing! <3
Why Dan Harmon?
omg The Golden One *actually* commented on this video, wtf?! I guess the fascist couldn't run away from some leftist flattery.
You're a good singer/pianist
... that opening music brings back memories
Here's my question:  Is ASMR degeneracy?
ASMRpoints <3
I cant decide what’s hotter...your brain or your body in that bathing suit. Luckily I’m a bacchanal degenerate sexual anarchist so don’t need to choose.
I wonder if the Golden One has seen any of your videos on him
(wiki) Among the very ancient people of Sardinia, who were called Sardi or Sardoni, it was customary to kill old people. While killing their old people, the Sardi laughed loudly. This is the origin of notorious sardonic laughter (Eugen Fehrle, 1930). In light of Vladimir Propp findings things begin to look different. Laughter accompanies the passage from death to life; it creates life and accompanies birth. Consequently, laughter accompanying killing transforms death into a new birth, nullifies murder as such, and is an act of piety that transforms death into a new life.  In 2009 scientists at the University of Eastern Piedmont in Italy claimed to have identified hemlock water dropwort (Oenanthe crocata) as the plant responsible for producing the sardonic grin. This plant is the candidate for the "sardonic herb", which was a neurotoxic plant used for the ritual killing of elderly people in pre-Roman Sardinia. When these people were unable to support themselves, they were intoxicated with this herb and then dropped from a high rock or beaten to death.
Oh, my god, I ADORE you
this is a modern masterpiece <3
Dear ContraPoints,  I really like your videos. I wanted to mention though, that it is not "Rikard Wagner" but closer to "Rishard Wagner" The German 'ch' has it's very particular own pronuncation. I hope you don't mind me contrapointing this out, but I really like the German language.  Grüße aus Deutschland! Apelyn's Entertainment.
@5:20 >It's cute Contra thinks that actual humans review these videos.
The production of your videos is always so top-shelf, gotta give you love for that
1:40 The Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim Special Edition (2016)
I like Nietzsche :'(
after watching your commentary on your alpha males video on your live channel, and hearing you express disappointment that your pre-transition body could be funny in a way that your current body (and women's bodies in general) can't be, the first few minutes of this video made me so incredibly happy. you rule
Holy shit, your voice is great. Like, I’ll hella buy this cover on iTunes. Gold dust woman is pretty appropriate for this video and I love everything about it
How is Contra able to talk to the presenter through the TV screen?
Purple lighting (purple-r than the usual pink) timed for Spirit Day? Or just a coincidence?
This degenerate queer loves you. This mentally-ill autistic leftist anarchist feminist aroace-spec pan polyamorous demisnowflakeflux demigoddess abso-fucking-lutely loves you. And I love being me because I can be both, a filthy decadent waste of space and a proper little partypooper SJW.  Would down a bottle of vodka in your honour but I'm afraid I wouldn't be able to stop at one.
Tbh tho, would you smash the golden one?
Contra I love you. Never go away.
Rojava reference!!!! Long live the Revolution! Also Camille Paglia sounds like the Golden One in that clip, wtf!
happy birthday to me :D dis is a good gift  <3 love your  hard work, hope you are resting now!
Hey lady, every time I think your work can't get any better you put out a new video out do yourself.
FUCK YOU NIETZSCHE
I wanna be Contrapoints when I grow up
Notice me mommy <3
How do I become more degenerate? 🤔
Most costume changes in a single video?:)
You look more beautiful than ever <3
When you're trying to ex an King Cobra but still look like you have some kind of dignity.  Also props to the impressive work on tucking your testicles between your thighs, looks pretty painful, daddy  P.S. ContraPoints is Daddy        ContraPoints is life
Rock on Contra!
This is better than every kubrick movie hands fucking down
Camille Paglia has a lot of interesting ideas about civilization and degeneracy. I think the LGBT stuff is mostly a non-issue. How are we being oppressed by white people/civilization today? We're not. What threat are we? I think it's overplayed by the media, most do just want to be left alone. Now when Queer activists talk about massive immigration or Islam as a religion of peace or whatever and allow the radical change of demographics in certain cities, regions or countries to Muslim majority, well then we will really have to worry.
Stalinists and Trotskyists aren't communists.
So much creativity, wow.
I find it fascinating that Fascists (of multiple eras) frame racial purity as a healthy for the supposed "meta-biology" of the state.  It makes it sound like they wan to make a Mono-culture crop,  and well, ask the Gros-Michel strain of bananas how long their perfect potassium based  ethno-state lasted.
all those callbacks, i love it <3 soo well done
Nat i don't know if u know but Elagabalus was trans! (or at least very femme); might be good if you ever do a video on historical gender variance http://www.outhistory.org/exhibits/show/tgi-bios/elagabalus
My dissertation was on Gobineau & how he spread this racist BS to Iran.  After Gobineau Iranians bought into the fiction that we are the descendants of the Noble Aryans too; & therefore better than the Arabs(semites) around us.  The last Shah bought into this big time, calling himself the Light of the Aryans.  Pre-revolution: It was taught in schools that the Arab conquers forever poisoned Iranian society with Islam. This is PARTIALLY the reason why non-religious Iranians hate Islam & Arabs.
Meanwhile the "degenerates" in The Queer Insurrection and Liberation Army (yes, it spells TQILA) just took part in kicking those manly man-men in ISIS's ass at Raqqa.
My only concern is whether or not you're with the Thalmor.
<3333
I don't criticize you often but this Quote about homosexuals is from the fucking 70s by someone who grew up learning homosexuality is some kind of illnes. I think it is save to say that homophobia has pretty much disappeared on the far left.
Happy to see your return the Youtube malt liquor community.
"continual adulterations having gradually affected the quality of the blood" buddy are you a vampire?
Que delicia verte de nuevo!!!
Hey I just want to say you're very pretty and make excellent videos and I hope you're having a good day.
What if I can't choose any favourite degeneracy over the other? That's quantum degeneracy!
Oh my goodness Nataly I feel like I'm seeing you for the first time! You're so vibrant and beautiful!
Another kick ass video, Nat! Adding to my intellectual arsenal against fucking fascists. Thank you!
Today has mainly been waiting to watch this video.
Praise be Nurgle, lord/lady of decadence.
You poured the absinthe so fast!
Damn, you are setting a standard for content creators with this top notch material.
This video sucked.
AND YOUR ROCKY HORROR REFERENCE AHHhhhhh!
I'm absolutely obsessed with your TERF character. Its perfect.
Your t charts are the best
Great video, but I was expecting more golden nuggets from The Golden One, the Michael Scott of fascism.
I grew up in a very, very socially conservative and religious family and went to Catholic school for 10 years from junior kindergarten all the way to Grade 8 and I never once really fit into it all. I was an INCREDIBLY effeminate child, I was questioning why God would send gay people to hell from the earliest moments of my religious education, and I had fantasies of tying men up from my earliest memory, among many other things. So, yeah, I was a very weird kid, and the kids around me at my Catholic school really let me know it. This, of course, left their scars, but now, as I sit here at 25, I am a proud degenerate! I'm a skinny gay dom who loves to dominate and humiliate guys who are bigger than me, I'm agnostic, I'm somewhat androgynous, I'm a proud intellectual and intersectional feminist, and I've never been more comfortable with my identity. In short, degeneracy is a blast and I think everyone in the world should be a little degenerate because, maybe, degeneracy is actually about finding yourself and learning about who you really were all along.
Fun facts on the ancient Spartans, who had strict policies on racial purity:  Any child born deformed would be abandoned at birth.  Non-Spartans were never allowed to marry Spartans. They kept slaves, but segregated, and procreation with them was forbidden.  Strict class structure meant that slaves could never become citizens.  This suicidal combination meant that after a few hundred years, Spartans were massively interbred, and what we now know as hereditary diseases were rampant. And, of course, babies born malformed due to these diseases were abandoned. In effect, their population was in drastic decline.  There are historical examples where the late Spartan 'army' would show up to fight with the other greeks, but was just a handful of men.  I just wanted everyone to know that the Hellenic Spartans, who advocated some of the strictest racial purity policies, literally bred themselves out of existence.  Have a nice day, Fascists!
"Hello boys" unsubscribed  In more serious conversation, degeneracy is fucking awesome. Shiny things are awesome. The Brass One is hilarious, but also a creepy dangerous fuck who I'm sure Tabby would happily castrate.  Well fuck, didn't know that about degeneracy. Interesting. I now like that word even more. I am a decadent degenerate and proud. Go cult of dionysus!  Also, I see all the clear influences from your prior Copper One video, including that cheeky cobra swill.
The most "decadent" of videos on youtube! <3 Fantastic work!
hahahahahahahah best
"Joy, beautiful spark of the gods, Daughter from Elysium, We enter, drunk with fire, Heavenly One, thy sanctuary! Your magic binds again What convention strictly divides; All people become brothers, Where your gentle wing abides."
Your rendition of "Gold Dust Woman" was fantastic!
I swear you get more beautiful every video.
Nietzsche is the best continental philosopher
3:37 when a muscleman has bigger tits than you xD
conTRAPoints
Really good video,very funny in parts.
Contra i love you but cultural appropriation is bullshit you know that. ps: now that you are a girl would you sit on my face? edit: Nietzsche is king
thank you for my life, contra.
King Cobra .. ha ha the purity of culture doesn't stand a chance after one and a half of those.
I'd say the concept of decaying civilization goes back to classical Greece with their concept of a lost Golden Age
how'd you get so smrt?
YAAAAAAAAA
I uncaringly, or perhaps to be more precise proudly, label myself and other kinksters as "degenerates" as an almost kind of joke. Wondering if maybe I should stop that, based on what I saw in this video. Thing is "degenerate" has such a nice ring to it, and is vague enough that it doesn't force me to say "people who I met through mutual interest in this fetish/weird thing."
"In a perfect society, created by me, there'll be plenty of beefy studs around. So, don't you worry about that." ContraPoints for World Empress!
i absoltuely NEED to know where that dressing gown is from
This channel more than any other gives me hope for the future.
Can we get Contrapoints: The Musical?
QUEEN STEVE NICKS
The only two threads holding me onto to my masculinity are the spirits of 'Transformers: The Movie' (even though I do feel a bit bad that because that flim flopped at the box office the same creators ditched the idea of making a 'Jem and The Holograms' animated movie) and the dystopian future (we're all heading for - so fuck I guess?) of 'Mad Max' - cut those threads and my god basically I'd just end up a levitating boob in the middle of a flowerhead in a field of rainbows farting out of unicorns butts.
I really like your videos ContraPoints.  You're a proper artist. And a degenerate.
absolutely wonderful video!!
Good job
Good video! The gong is smaller than I expected tho.
Damn, you have a lovely singing voice
The gong was a nice touch.
God that scene with the TERF!  "Riley J Dennis - why did you destroy ancient Rome?"
I've decided that low fi hip hop grills and bath bombs is my aesthetic now.
Please release an album! I love your covers (yes, even the Sound of Music one).
On the history of 'degeneracy'.  Be honest with yourself. Whenever you yourself refer to others as 'deplorables', what exactly is it you are doing here? Whenever you call people that, you are kinda doing the same thing. You're defining people in a way that degenerates their humanity. You  afford them less empathy because you have defined them as 'deplorables' in your mind.   It's the same thing.    The problem with the nazis wasn't that they had a conception of 'degeneracy'. The problem with the nazis is that they felt it was reasonable then to go 'cleanse' society of them.
Where did you get that necklace for Dr. Pink Pigtails? It's sooo cool!
this makes me want to dress like a peacock and dance in a Catholic church
This is a very good analysis of the concept of degeneracy (as used by fascists) and your production values are top notch as always. But I can't help feeling a bit more critical towards this than your other videos. It gives the impression that it's the far right who are concerned about conserving and defending moral standards (heteronormative partiarchy, white supremacy, etc.) against their transgression and that we, as leftists or liberals, should instead embrace these "degenerate" practices and happily transgress these boundaries. This implies that "degeneracy" is an inherently rightist concept, which as you point out emerges from their idea of society as an organic body.  But don't liberals and leftists also have their own concept of degeneracy? They wouldn't call it that but for example the whole liberal narrative about our society falling apart under the weight of resurging racist and sexist sentiments, populist leaders and fake news, which manipulate the masses into voting incorrectly, is essentially a story about a society in decay. That's why it's selling so well among worried liberals who demand the calling out and purging the society of all these toxic sexist, racist and nationalist elements. Of course I'm not against that. I'm just saying that it's essentially the same narrative, just in a different form.  And if degeneracy is not inherently a rightist concept, then transgression is not inherently a leftist concept either. Here I take my cue from Angela Nagle (who you should invite to your channel for a conversation stream, btw!) who has written extensively about this. She notes, I think totally correctly, that today it's the youthful far right who are really the transgressive ones, even if only in style (e.g. Milo Yiannopoulos). That's why they love to break social taboos against open sexism, open racism, etc. and rally against leftist moralism and political correctness. It's kind of ironic that all this whining about degeneracy is coming from the darkest corners of the internet, which are otherwise known for their shockingly repulsive content and support for Trump, who isn't exactly a champion of morality and public manners.
Yaaaaaassssssss best one yet!!!!! Love you xoxo kisses forever
I fucking love you mommy
The queer quest is to survive. The fascist quest is to be the only survivor. Killed it
As a furry in a gay interracial relationship, I love this. I hereby vow to be even more degenerate.
So happy to see a new video! Also I love that outfit.  I love being a degenerate. I feel like I am in good company
I would die for a ContraPoints album
I applaud the productions of these videos!
Yes more golden one videos!!!!
that one piece is the most gorgeous thing ever omg
Getting more beautiful and funnier with each new video <3
i'm glad you've admitted that your supporters are all jews
I love you, make more videos :D
"This doesn't deserve a response... we're moving on! (11:30) I think it does deserve a response. Why do you think this is bullshit? How would you answer that?
Would you please upload a full cover of My favourite degenerate things? I promise to play it whenever I engage in gay degeneracy from now on. #bestvideoyethoney
you make me feel really really gay inside :')
This was so easy to fap to.
I, for one, ship it!
You are out of control contra. LOLOLOL
Heck any "communist" that doesn't stand in solidarity with the degenerate workers of the world. They can get out of the way of progress or get the bullet too.
If this isn't a sign that I'm long overdue to get high, eat snacks, and sext my partners, all from the comfort of my bathtub, I don't know what is. The world fucking sucks. I've earned a little decadence.
tl;dr degeneracy is a spook
You're so talented it hurts.
Another episode I can't watch on the bus.
Your videos are so delightfully weird.
DAT GRILL THO!! SLAY
Whoop whoop, Dionysus - god of actors! Loved this!
Another brilliant video
i'm a proud homo weeb degenerate  (btw, sick editing)
This video is almost explosively fabulous. Contra, you're a goddess.
God, you're gorgeous.
I'm a white, somewhat leftist male with no interesting facets to my identity or views. I'm totally on board with decadence, even if I don't indulge much myself. If the world around me got more decadent, I'd welcome it. I'm bored.
you are perfect and lovely!! thank you so much for making this video!! love the outro too!
19:46 oh if only this were true...
The most brutal take-down of degeneration theory since George Bernard Shaw's The Sanity of Art (free .pdf is available online, look it up).  I love it.  Love you.
Contra you are My favorite youtuber!
The Golden One's name is Lars? holy shit
Contra, you rock as much as Fleetwood Mac!
Yes yes goyim, the degeneracy is the path!
The day I get to be with a woman half as cool as you is the day I could die happy. Really, very informative video with great insight. Will watch again. ^_^
this episode was weird
Those who want homogeneous society don't want homosexuals, yet those who want heterogeneous society welcome all including homosexuals.
Contra burping whilst listening to Camille Paglia's 'speech' is my kink.
Is Paglia still a thing?
Ayyy yo would you mind not ruining great music by associating it with your content?
When the Feminist Empire has triumphed, we need to put the Golden One in a little cage and make him dance for us.
every single communist i know is queer. i wouldn't put too much water in one article
It's ironic that Paglia is referencing John B. Calhoun's "Mouse Utopia" experiment as evidence for transgender women's harmful influence on society, considering the experiment showed not just a "feminization" of the male mice, but also a "masculinization" of the female mice. You could just as easily conclude that civilizations fall due to short haired, leather jacketed "dragon ladies" like Paglia herself. Of course the experiment was complete BS to begin with. A bunch of albino mice living in a crowded cage doesn't even come close to the facsimile of a human city it was intended to be. For example you could also argue that civilizations fall due to unlimited food pellets. Surprise, when you torture mice, they don't do well. Also you spoke a lot about procreative straight couples vs. teh gays. I just wanted to mention that not only are there plenty of gay people with kids, a 2010 study showed lesbian couples actually make better parents than straight couples. Anyway, another brilliant video. I laughed my butt off.
Amazing timing. Yesterday, a twitter leftist who was trying to defend a really creepy leftist dude who sexually assaulted a woman who spoke out literally suggested that people stop reading Lacan & start reading Paglia. She also called the assault "persistence" .
Contra stop you can't you're too gorgeous
YESSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSS videos with The Golden One are my favorite Contra videos!
Love you :))
Thanks, Contra. :)
at the segment at 7:13, I thought i had dirt on my screen, but it's just an odd tiny grey dot over the text. Why Contra why
you have a beautiful voice and i could listen to you sing all day.
That credits song was great.  You should release it on iTunes.
I'm going to shine a pink death ray into the heart of western civilization. Not because I want to but because I can (and apparently anyone else).
based contrapoints your frank n honest talk abt transition and how its evolved throughout ur journey in content creation is making me feel a little less shitty about putting my music from before i transition out onto The World Wide Web so thank u for that.... stay decadent u daemonette of slaanesh
I wish I had more time for degeneracy. But between my health issues (obese, acid reflux) that require a diet to fix, a full-time retail job (please end my miserable existence), taking care of my aging grandmother, and helping my mother with the death of my stepfather, there's just not enough hours in the day to get a good alcohol-soaked orgy going. Plus I'd have to be the one to clean up after it, because eeeeeeeeverybody loves a good orgy until it's time to fumigate the cunt-stench and dick-splatter, and then it's "oh look at the time, I've gotta do a thing at the place, bye!"  Excellent video, as always, Contra. You're my favorite A E S T H E T I C degenerate bringing down the culture of the West. <3
I never got the whole idea that the greeks declined bc of homosexual decadence. The period of Athens that everybody likes, around 400 BC was super gay (Socrates openly teases Glaucon about all the young boys he's doing), and that supposedly strong, idealized masculine society of sparta was unbelievably gay. Hell, the Macedonians weren't as gay as all that, but their art sure is enamored with the male form, and they produced Phillip and Alexander, everyone's favorite genocidal conquerors
This video is Gold. Would love a full verison of The degenerate song lol
Why don't you base your opinions on facts rather than made up nonsense? I know the answer. You are seriously disturbed and need to have a rhetoric to defend it.
Nice, a whole video on me.
Oh my god I love your vids, the opening just made me giggle and squee XD <3  You're doing great, I'm glad to contribute to your show <3
This is like a ContraPoints greatest hits video and I LOVE IT!
Wow.
ASMR is everywereXD
First time actually watching a full video.. you're really talented ;O
This is amazing, Contra. I love you so much 💗
Why am i turned on by you ?
The Golden one returns!!!
Oh - my - god Look at his BUTT. Daddy, can I have some meat? Oh, DADDY!   I'm not like the other girls, I've got the Ts and the D
Fan of the Golden One, and I thought that was funny as hell..
the problem is nobody wants to have kids with them
I love your videos but every time I click on one it's like a bomb goes off in the suggestions algorithm.
this video needed a tankie contra for the anti-decadent communist line :P
Another triumph. 👍
I love you
What a fantastic return to old school Contra with new sensibilities and topic. This was amazing
K I N O I N O
degenerate with a decadent purpose <3
I like being weak and feeble yet having the power to destroy society. The contradiction is palpable
Wait, do you actually want to fuck the Golden One? I'm not judging; the heart wants what it wants. But I am a little surprised that you can look past his hateful and possibly brain damaged interior and see the beauty on the surface. Especially since I'm not remotely into beefy guys myself, so whenever other women (or men or whatever) look at one of those musclebound freaks and say "Yum, I want a piece!", it takes me a minute to remember, "Oh right, most people are into this"
I will never trust people who *unironically* use the term "degenerate" or "degeneracy". Ever.
Also to the loser against decadence, remember the goal is decadence for all. Automated Luxury Gay Space Communism is the goal people.
youtube is so lucky to have you, contra <3
You going to the rubin report and helping him get views is the real decadence eww rubin is trash
Contrapoints is love.  Contrapoints is life.
White supremacists insist white women should have white babies, but they themselves procreate with Asian women, if at all.
You have out done yourself Contra.
I thought 'decadent' & 'degenerate' were words used by communists to describe capitalists, materialists & the bourgeoisie.
OMG I was like YOU GOTTA POUR THE ABSINTHE SLOWLY lol
/pol/tard: "Leftists are crazy!" Same /pol/tard: "Pornography is responsible for the fall of the West!"
Loved the video, but I think its hardly fair to accuse communists to think that gays are bourgeoisie decadence, thankfully our movement has evolved way beyond of what Engels said at the time (which  there were pretty few , if any allies for homosexuals, although thats hardly an excuse). We should not shy away of criticising the main authors of communism, specially when its about intersectionality.
Contra you sexy degenerate devil, your doing the good work. The best work.
Camile Paglia and Dinesh D'Souza agree that the queers caused 9/11.
there are political ideologies that are actively working on including queer people, the anarcha-queer movement has had a big impact on anarchists in the last years, sure there is still work to do, but most people realize that anarchism and phobias are not really compatible, so there's that. WOOP WOOP for the IRPGF.
I think you have achieved at least one thing: there is going to be ContraPoints Golden One shipping now.
You've got a lovely singing voice.
The concept of degeneracy is actually way older, stemming from ancient Greece, and perhaps best highlighted by Plato's Theory of Forms. Plato saw the forms (genera) as sacred and perfect, with speciation through change as the cause of all later evil in the world. Politically he mapped it as the shift from his philosopher aristocracy ("perfection") to tyranny, then timarchy, then oligarchy, and democracy as an end state in the cycle in which everyone is a tyrant. Personal freedom was seen as the ultimate chaos.  The problem with his theory was that the truth of genera was placed before that of singular species, unlike Aristotle's idea, where demonstrable complex forms exist prior to the deduction of simple ones. Plato assumed singulars must fit genera, rather than genera only ever describing similar singulars, ironically tied to the idea of confirmation through 'white swans' rather than disconfirmation through 'black swans'.  Anyone curious about this would do well to read Karl Popper's 'The Open Society and its Enemies', which looks at how degeneracy theories tie in with fascism and early communism.  Thanks for the vid Natalie <3 Resplendent as always.
Best one yet.  And that's the third time in a row i've said that!
8:37 Gautier!!! <3 You adorable little punk kitten, I'm glad you got a mention in this video. (He would be so happy)
Witty, informative, colourful, cheeky, tastefully edited, intellectually scathing and deliciously decadent. All the good things that make for another brilliantly-made ContraPoints video.
Yeah, I'm going to need "Loud, Nonconformist Queerness" on a shirt.
Oh dear. Not the King Cobra.
I strongly disagree with your assesment of Nietzsches philosophy of slave morality. I do agree that a lot of edgey losers do read weird shit into his philosophy, but that does not make it an arbitrairy rorsarch test.
Well, fuck, I'm a degenerate.
Poor Nietzsche... everyones bought into the lazy Hollywood interpretation of his philosophy.
I loved this so much I cried at the end when your song. I LOVE YOU, I LOVE YOU!
Lol Cobra made a return....  Try Colt 45 in a forty you heathen.
<33333333
antifa furries!!!!! yeah baby!!!!!!
I would pay money for a full version of "My Favorite Things" parody.
You'll answer to the church of eternal fire, freak.
I've never clicked on a vid so fast, degenerate my society mommy <3
Camille Paglia is hit and miss but when she's good she's great.
Seriously love your videos, thank you for everything you do.  I've been wanting to start up my own series, but find myself hesitating, which is really just a lame excuse to avoid criticism.  CHEERS!
God contra just gets more attractive 😄
*_YES YES YES YES_*
This is ten out of fucking ten
Your merch line is called contraband?? I LOVE it 🌈🌈🌈
15:00  yo girl, I thought you were cool until you started that moral fagging :^)
fuck yeah degenerate life
alt right fuckboys just aren't mentally strong enough to handle dat sweet sweet Dionysian ecstasy
So, I started to make a list of all the things I liked in this video, but then I realized I was just listing all the things in this video.  You are awesome and this video is awesome.
I wish you liked women...
Divide the number of people calling you degenerate by at least 5, and then you have the real number. Those fuckers love harassing people with fake accounts to seem more intimidating.
Degenerates like you belong on a cross.
As Derrick Jensen often said in Endgame, to truly understand someone's position, you have to examine all the assumptions underneath it. Contra has undermined racism, degenerate theory, misogyny etc. I don't know if this is her intention from the start, but it's a great way to discourse.
I LOVE YOU
I am only at 1:03 BUT I ALREADY FUCKING LOVE IT CONTRA! Please never stop.
FIRST
Rome deserved to be destroyed
3:31 I'm the guy to the far right lmao
Contra's videos keep getting better and better.
Nice singing voice.
Today is my birthday. Thank you.
"Degerneracy" as a concept is idiotic in every way, shape or form. Greek hoplites did each other constantly and Alexander conquered the world with them. Romans were open as heck and it wasn't their openness to sex that caused them all lead poisoning and overstretched the realm's boundaries.  Ultimately, it's a rationalization of "I don't like that person over there! Make them go away!".
Abigail looks so much like Winona Ryder. Gets me every time.
ALL OUR FAV CHARACTERS IN ONE VIDEO YAASSSSS
This entire video is one giant splash zone; you will get wet.  <3 <3 <3 Thanks you for being a thing
Wow you got all of the good old memes back together.
disneys not gonna sue for that audio? o_o
I love you <3
This are so freaking elaborate and going by your twitter, you do them all by yourself in 2 weeks. HOW?
I wanna be Contra when I grow up.
fuck yeah contra rock n roll
Oh what a coincidence. Just saw a clip of that Camille woman in a lecture today.
Love you so much. Your voice is amazing♥♥♥
Are you gonna address Bearings "I don't hate gayz but I wont vote for them" video? Because the phrase "I don't have anything against gays, but against the overly LGBT agenda." is basically the only thing you read in the comments... that and that gays should be happy that they don't get thrown of buildings.
Okay, first yasss @ the musical choices, specially the Stevie track (the HOME track is my fave by them as well)  Also I love the commedia dell’arte dottore mask, it’s gorgeous!   Also also you look fabulous in that bathing suit. Jelly tbh
0/10, didn't put wolf's milk in the bath. Unwatchable.
You’re literally the best user on this godforsaken website
Yeah so I'm gonna need a musical outro in all of your videos from now on k thx bye  love u Contra ❤ never stop posting, never log off
As a Democratic socialist, I am not concerned about anyone's sexual orientation or how they express themselves as long as consent is given and nobody gets hurt in the process.....well okay expect you want to be hurt, but consent still applies then.
as a straightish man... contra's getting hotter.
I can't wait to be so degenerate that I destroy all of western civilization.
At this point the word "degenerate" is a /pol/ meme
wow so many throwbacks in one video
Contra your YouTube presence is the best thing on the whole wide web.
So when is your record gonna drop?
I love your videos, but your analysis of Nietzsche is wrong. You are putting forward the misinterpretation of master/slave morality - fascists coopted the terms of übermenschen etc to make a point about Social Darwinism.   What master morality really means is that you create your own values and don't subscribe to a prescribed ethical framework; you go beyond good and evil. If you decide to be 'degenerate' on your own terms, be degenerate!
You sound like a pretty woman
Damn it! I'd like to be more degenerate, but am sadly cis, straight, white, male, have a white child, don't have a bath, don't do drugs, and mainly can't make great videos like this one. All I have going is some alcohol, tobacco, colourful clothing choices and a generally positive attitude towards queerness and gay rights and a rejection of gendered roles in the home. Damn it! =8)-DX
10:00 that lady sure likes the word "okay" a lot. I think I'll spare you the southpark joke.
You need to release "my favorite degenerate things" as a solo post.
I don't think the "right" would argue against pleasure, as utilitarianism is a concept people take theological stances on as well. Pleasure in a negative context, to me, seems to be about excess more than moderation, if anything. So, like you're little caveat about alcoholism- pleasure can have an abstract, logical consequence.
"antifa furries and enby drag queens, these are a few of my favourite things" Same.Also I appreciate the ContraPoints continuity nods (And am really glad that contrapoints continuity is now a thing)
GODDAMNIT ABIGAIL
ContraPoints videos are part of my favorite degenerate things <3
I think moral foundation theory really helps shed some light on this idea of degeneracy. It basically highlights that conservative types base some of their concepts of right and wrong around this concept of purity and disgust triggers. Liberal folk place a higher emphasis on fairness and harm.  Theyre two fundamentally different ways of looking at the world
What if the fascist in the bathtub is really really cute? :/
do you have to always say "queers" ??? can't you say LGBT people for Fucks sake
Fuck that newspaper from the 1970s. We commies love degeneracy. We can't have Communism without FULLY AUTOMATED LUXURY GAY SPACE COMMUNISM!
This is amazing, completely amazing.
Beyond phenominal!
ok but...HOW IS ABIGAIL'S MOM??  also, does doctor have a name? I like her.
That necklace is gorgeous and it looks great on you.
You will be spared from the Inquisition as you have observed the correct levels of admiration for my aesthetics :-) Moreover, in regard to the Degeneracy Question, I have no problem with individuals like you (in fact I rather like you - no homo). However, I have a massive problem with the porn industry for example; an industry which destroys women's lives and saps the life joy from young men.  Lastly, you are indeed a perfect arch-nemesis, like a Daemonette of Slaanesh to my Golden Primarch.
That Engels quote is taken entirely out of context. And it was mistranslated
+ContraPoints Dear ContraPoints I love you, and this might be my favorite video you made so far, how ever thou looking alluring is befitting in a video about decadance, It seams to me you dont know about (what I call) the blood surge effect. Its when engaging in media with powerful eroticism the brain starts shutting down (like when watching porn) and following the plot becomes difficult for instance [Seikon no Qwaser]. Please explain complex phenomenon more slowly when warring sexy lingerie.
Antifa furries love you too <3
Why is Contra calling him Lars?
I feel like this video was less content than usual. What's ties all the things fascists see as degenerate together? What isn't seen as degeneracy, that most people would see as "gross"? Furthermore, I think you'd be hard-pressed to argue that people should be allowed to use heroin. Many people would say using heroin is degenerate; if "degeneracy" is fine, what's the problem with heroin? I don't have answers to these questions, but I was hoping to find answers in your video. Tbqhwy senpai, if I wanted a history lesson I'd go on wikipedia.
"You know what you get in Gulag is every Sunday you get this disgusting plastic penis to use. Well every Sunday you will get two penises, so you will live in a gulag with a human face": Karl ZeZizek
I really want an Abigail Cockbane redemption arc. Please Contra, present a gradual character change where she comes to realise that sexism isn't dependent on sex; for example, no TERF can deny that a female person born with no vagina or uterus (only a urethra) is still socially a woman, even if devoid of reproductive sex.
"riley j dennis, why did you destroy ancient rome??"
You weren't kidding on Twitter when you said this was pandering. THANK YOU FOR THE PANDERING. We got dat sweet asmr AND singing AND baths. You spoil us, kind mother. 😭😭
Fascism isn't necessarily tied to race. Nazism is absolute and modern Fashys of the alt right are. But Mussolini who could be looked on as the father of fascism, viewed the Nazis and their fixation on race as naive. All you need for fascism is a unified culture subservient to the state. So for Nazi Germany that is German Arayns as the ideal. Fascist Italy was the ideal of a New Roman Empire, along side an alliance with the Catholic Church, while Nazi Germany and the leaders were less religious. Anyways rant over. Great video as always.
So does this mean I can't call Nazis degenerates? Because I really like calling Nazis degenerates.
Like it's not possible to be masculine and homosexual
the godess is back.
Has anyone else noticed that the golden ones facial hair looks like someone glued a broom to his face?
That's the second best cover of Gold Dust Woman.
Thanks for the Nietzsche stuff. Hate that shit.
I rarely comment on videos, but you're absolutely incredible. Intelligent, talented, hilarious . . . You're making the world a less crappy place. Thank you for putting out content like this.
I guarantee you that the golden one has a stack of gay porn in his closet.  let's not forget that most Spartans were bisexual...
Contrapoints, the fairest maiden.
My siblings just sent me this video and so far I’m both intrigued and kind of terrified. Also you’re very pretty.
I'm very weirdly aroused, is this allowed?
Oh my god I'm getting all sweaty from watching you Contra, I think I'm going gay for you.... XD (I'm a woman)
I'm glad that you got George Soros to sponsor you. It was about time! :P
What is right about a bunch of poor migrants coming into my already poor eastern European - country Bulgaria, we can't feed our own and now we have to take care of others, not to mention the crime we are experiencing, or the religious prejudice from a predominantly muslim migrants, I am jewish myself and it's a nightmare, also most of them illegally try to bypass the Dublin treaty and move to rich countries, these people are not escaping the horrors of war, they are just trying to get to a country that is willing to support them for free.  Anything to comment on this @ContraPoints?
This is high art.
That certainly was a fun, relaxing and informative degenerate time, thanks for that Contra
This is your brain on Bertrand Russell and Michel Foucault
Wow I like you contra but your analytic dogmatism is out of the wall. Stop reading Wittgenstein and pick up some DELEUZE, oh then you'll also see btw why Nietzsche was actually a great philosopher pushing out Hegel and putting very interesting contexts for a more modernist Spinozism. What's the deal anyways with despising both Hegel and Nietzsche? You just hate all continental philosophers?  Oh and also you are so pretty and artistic and funny like dying idk will you date me or something </3
"degeneracy" used unironically is degenerate.
It was so beautiful why did it have to end 😭
Great informative hot video as always, but I think your philosophical skills are making you underestimate the psychological, nonrational side of things.  "What is so bad about pleasure" – nothing, when it's pleasure for *me* , but there are few things that generate as much collective resentment, fury and white-hot rage as *other people* having fun and pleasure and good sexy times; particularly if it feels like they can just go and enjoy life freely, without consequences, while I am not allowed to.
I'm a big fan of the Contra Points extended universe
i want that pink wig so much!!!!!
You're my favorite degenerate, Contra.
Contra is transcendent art
this is a good thing to wake up to
The grace the elegance the humour! So glad I found this channel
This is one of my favourite videos in a while and I love all your videos.
I feel like there was a "play Salieri" joke lurking in here
Twenty minutes of Contra.... I'll go fetch the lubricant
Holy fuck. My ambivalence grows. It was still really enjoyable to watch though. i think you have defintely out done yourself. Bravo.
So Much Winning!!
Whenever the idea of degeneracy or decadence comes up, I'm reminded of Jeremy Bentham's posthumously published 1785 essay "Offences Against One's Self", which is about why buggery shouldn't be illegal. You can read it yourself here (http://www.columbia.edu/cu/lweb/eresources/exhibitions/sw25/bentham/index.html).
I'd degenerate all over that pretty face....  Ok but seriously this video is incredibly well produced. Hats off.
Can we have the song separately from the video, please?
"You never see old people being trans"  Search for Laerte on google.
cannot be unseen ...
14:20 I think I found my new ringtone.
Fuckk I really want to watch this but I'm in the library and I'm afraid someone will see lol
Disagreed on the cultural appropriation, pretty much loved everything else. Good video! Again!
Well said.
Wonderful video, minor request: more covers.
yay, decadence!
Proud to say that I stan Contrapoints
I need a sing-along video of "Degenerate Things"
I'm going to need a track of "These are my favorite degenerate things" stat.
As a nonbinary degenerate, it means a lot to have a place on the Internet I can turn to for insight. Thanks <3
I hope everything works out for Abigail's mother.
talking about degenracy of Rome and  and the masculinity of the Han. i'm sorry?
Shoutout to the antifa furries out there.
ｓｐｅｅｄｒｕｎｎｉｎｇ  ｉｓ  ｔｈｅ  ｍｏｓｔ  ｄｅｇｅｎｅｒａｔｅ  ａｃｔ
aaaaa such good content! your singing voices are so beautiful, too. ❤️ great job as always sweet mother cold mother warm mother cruel mother dark mother kind mother ❤️❤️❤️
Oh my god why don't you make music Contra. Your voice is amazing.
Anyone who dislikes this is a nerd prude who goes to TPUSA meetings
YEAH! The Return of The Golden One :D Your video about him was one of the first I saw. Glad to see you covering him again. I really hope he responds.
I love you Contra
woah what's with the inclusion of comrades in the opposition of degeneracy? all the communists I know are either pro "degeneracy" or are anti "Liberal degeneracy" but accept lgbtq people
I'll start identify as anarcho-degenerate from now on I think.
I love your videos so much.
I love you Contra your videos are amazing :D
"Patrons - George Soros" - i almost fell of my chair laughing with that one. Girl, you are really something special.
the amount of references to the livestreamm had me crying this is my fave video of yours
I thought I was your favourite degenerate thing.
Every video I think "We have hit peak Contra, the aesthetic can go no further" and with each new upload I am so happy to be proven wrong.
you are more Loki than Brunhilde
HOLY FUCKING YEEESSS
queer is rebellious bc it's a gay slur cishets arent queer
Dear ContraPoints   I'm wondering if you could inform me as to when your check from Soros arrived? I've been waiting for mine for AGES and yet nothing seems to be coming?   signed, another virtue signalling, left fascist, SJW, feminist, communist, controlled opposition out to destroy western civilisation
Yup you have to be my favorite Tuber now.. Red or otherwise .
Excellent video - degeneracy is so attractive now. :)
I can't wait for this channel to get more exposure to show the moderates and conservatives just how shitty their social ideology is. They probably won't change their opinion, but at least they can see you share your well articulated points.
Classic subversion: All we're asking for is coexistence.  No, you're not.
That Uruk-hai quote made me cringe so hard. And I hate the term "cringe" and do not use it lightly :(
Alcohol doesn't make me feel good. :(
As a degenerate communist, thank you for bringing up both Paglia and the article from the labor magazine. One day, when me and my pals have turned Silicon Valley into full workplace democracy mode, you will have a place at my game publishing co-op. :D
The content quality is just out of this world!
FUCK CAMILLE PAGLIA.
Love you momma Contrapoints
It's been with deep disdain, that I've seen the rise of news about the Family Research Council, the Alliance Defending Freedom and their ilk. To understand how these inflict their misguided, Christo-fascist agenda, it takes time to explore their brand. Their sick puppies, sad sick puppies, is a sick ,sick world. Daria would play that best... https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rESpXVl149A I don't see a need to debunk Christianity, let faith be what it is, what I do debunk is the inane fantasy of the evangelicals fomenting their family values lie. The FRC and ADF, etal, are imposing an insanity upon politics, families, municipalities, states, and now the nation as they've ramped up to invoke their new standard bearer, Der Leader Drumpf! News, to easily manipulated to present stupid and insane as needed equal time with reality, enables a sense of normalizing to those at the FRC and ADF. Note, the Southern Poverty Law Center has named those and other of that ilk, as Hate Groups. Best wishes. Last, a reminder to seek contacts, make connections.
I like that reference to previous online bios hehehe
Best video yet. Also, that absinthe spoon is the most extra thing you have done yet and I love it.
Thanks for these videos ContraPoints, recently found your channel and you're a real inspiration! Keep fighting the good fight.
Now I worry about Abigail's mom... :(
I just want a 10 hour cut of the "FUCK YOU NIETZSCHE" interlude.
Here we go again, back in the tub.
George Soros number one patron HEH
Please Contra tell me that was apple juice and you didn't force yourself to drink King Cobra again!
This is a bad video because you didn't sit backwards on the chair when you talked about drinking responsibly
I really need to see Golden One and ContraPoints make a collab video of the decadent kind, wherein The Golden One teaches the naughty Contra the power and vitality of pure Aryan™ manstuff
Where the heck did you get that bathing suit! I frikkin love it and want one!!
Every video you make is an achievement, and Natalie, with that 2 minute Nietsczhe bashing I think you made the ground shake. L  oooo    llll
Also also (if you get to sometimes actually use your philosophy post grad, I get to use my medieval studies one!!) the idea that even the western empire "collapsed" is highly suspect.  The 6th c. date usually trotted around is simply inaccurate.  We have writings from Romans, in mainland italy and the provinces, from far into the 7th and 8th centuries displaying a solid continuing roman identity, despite the lack of precise emperors.  The barbarians were not storming the gates.  They were trading and intermarrying and culture mixing.  The horrors!! Yes, Rome got sacked.  But that, in historical context, was not seen as it is portrayed to have been seen.  It was an act of war, yes, but just as many other acts of war.  It was not the collapse of a culture, it was one bad day among many, often likened in situ to pompeii.  Basically Germans and Goths were sexy and Romans liked sexy people, even if they sometimes also liked killing those same sexy people.  Cultures evolve, they do not suddenly implode.  There are no hard lines in history (or in biology).  Nothing decays, it only changes.
Watched the live stream where cOmtar spoke about gender deployment in her videos. Really brave of her to attack that so openly in her very next video. Huge props.
Why won't Rubin have contra on his show?
why do I always end up on a trip with your videos, Contrapoints
This white beefy cis heterosexual procreative male supports your inalienable right to corrupt our children by being an alcoholic, crossdressing degenerate any day.
The pink wig and the goggles look even better on you now.
Someone please link me that Instagram picture at 3:39 I can't find it
wow so many callbacks to ur past episodes. this is great. peak contrapoints.
make an album you wonderful human being!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
Aw come to my furry bacchanal contra ud make such a good maenad.
This was excellent. More songs. More production. More lighting. Well done. Great work.
The Gong appeared in the video! I was right all along!
Okay but your videos lately have been consistently amazing.
This is fucking hilarious
Damn Contra!
That Gold Dust Woman blues cover is exactly what I needed to wake up to. Truly, today is blessed.
Aw I hope my favorite terf's mother is doing well
1) That was an epic Dave Rubin diss.  2) I thought I had a handle on how unhinged Camille Paglia was just from reading her, boy was I wrong. I feel tweaked just from listening to her.
omg riley j dennis! love both of you!
Geez I wanted to try and listen to contras points because I liked her how to identify a fascist video but this is just really hard to watch without wanting to vomit
I love warhammer and specifically the high elves, and I have recently learned the golden one does as well...... Now I'm ashamed about my hobby
AT LONG LAST   M Y   B O D Y    I S   R E A D Y  <3
Quality video, as always, Natalie. :)
your house looks like my gramma's
Maybe you are becoming to self reverential, watch out you must continue your journey
That relaxing ASMR bath part was actually  really relaxing
ABIGAIL, WHAT'S YOUR DAMAGE?!
Starring the whole contrapoints expanded universe
I adore this episode, wonderful pice of work on history and facts and wonderful work of art from start to finish. I absolutely want to live in your world.     Lots of love, (((Fan)))
Adam Curtis visual reference! 16:20
Don't bully ZIzek!
That Fleetwood Mac cover at the end was fantastic! Hell, do some music videos (collaborations with Adam Neely?), already!
ARE YOU READY?
this one is kinda like the writing of your old videos with the acting and production value of your new videos.  I'm not sure if I like it or not.  maybe im just upset cuz im an edgy teenager who likes nietzsche  I look foward to seeing what you do next : )
Again with the golden one? Do you have a crush on him or soemthing? :D
Oh, Nat, I love you so much, if you didn't exist I'd have to invent you.  Your new singing voice sounds great, btw!
I don't know why it's the far left that gets afflicted with the furthest fringes of society when it comes to social issues - I've actually met in London a small Luxemburgist group that wanted to completely abolish the of consent - a little on the flip side of rallying against 'bourgeois decadence' there, so for whatever reason we manage to attract both extremes.   Sexy video, though I'm disappointed that at no point were you sniffing any kind of powder.
I think this is your most aesthetic video to date
Social anarchism is pretty much the ONLY modern (1800s onwards) political tradition that's been cool with queerness basically from the get-go.  A lot of Emma Goldman's words on homosexuality, women's liberation, birth control, and polyamory seem fairly commonsensical by today's standards, but at the time (late 19th and early 20th century) even the most fire-breathing radical revolutionary thought they were extreme; and yes, "decadent".  She and other anarchists who wrote about sexuality, relationships, and queerness (e.g. Voltairine de Cleyre, Adolf Brand, Otto Gross, Paul Goodman, Daniel Guerin) are also good examples of radicals who understood that social transformation must not only change the political-economic structure of society – in social anarchism's case, to a voluntary confederation of directly-democratic communes and worker cooperatives – but also the cultural structure, seeking to transform popular consciousness through the arts, entertainment, education, and everyday relationships.  In their own weird way, the _better_ parts of tumblr (not the puritan "self-crit or ban!" parts) are sort of carrying on that tradition. It's called "cultural Marxism" by the fash, but it's got more in common with the joyful anti-hierarchical ethos of Emma Goldman than the stodgy pessimism of Theodor Adorno. It should be called cultural anarchism.
Upload the song somewhere so I can put it on repeat
The communist movement at large (ML, MLM, Trotskyists, AnComs) have no issue with LGBTQ people. You found some dickheads who follow Engels' writing as if it were the gospel and apply 100 y/o philosophy whilst ignoring all advances that have been made since. This dogmatic approach goes contrary to dialectical materialism and can be rightfully dismissed as reactionary bullshit.  Other than that: Great video! Keep it up
I need a full version of 'Degenerate things' because it needs to exist. NEEDS TO.
that camille paglia speech just sounds like what a panic attack feels like
Whenever you make a video, I get so happy.
I love you so much. Keep being awesome.
Mutter!
Goddamn, you look like you had so much fun making this thing.
What the fuck is Camille Paglia going on about? Isn't she supposed to be the patron saint of defending very radical sexual outlaws back in the 90's?  Her views on Trans people is so laughable it almost makes you wonder whether or not shes on drugs everytime she runs her mouth these days.
I can't believe Riley Dennis destroyed Ancient Rome.
The ASMR bath bit gave me goosebumps and i had to leave for a bit i loved it
Stop doing this to me.
does this count as a musical episode because i'm p sure it does
You made my new theme song, thanks Contra!
All we needed was Jackie Jackson and we could've had all major Contra Characters in a single video.  Well, except Fritz, but there was already a nazi in the video...
<3
It's kind of a nice touch to have Zizek appear for 'ideology', especially when I'm pretty sure that his position on the failings of 20th century communism were precisely that much of the communist ideology didn't properly take into account that people want their pleasures and enjoyments, and therefore it restricts itself to a moral/social conservatism point because really you just shouldn't be having any decadent fun until communism is achieved.   also don't @ me, I'm sorry that this comment generalises more than it should but it's a gat dang youtube comment what do you want from me.
I need a full version of the degenerate song. For science reasons.
I love, love, love every second of this!!!
OMG I'm late to the party! Why isn't my notifications on?! Bad bell! [click] Now stay on!
As usual I like the videos. Feel like the video started with to much of the comedic set up, and flaming of some random dude.
I'm SO ready for the perfect society created by you.
˜”*°•Ｋ Ｕ Ｌ Ｔ Ｕ Ｒ•°*”˜
What is with the Alt-right and statues?
Awesome video except for the misrepresentation of communism/communists
contra you're state of the art <3 <3 <3
I adore you, you gorgeous degenerate;)
I love the little throwbacks to old contra videos. Hail King Cobra!
Hey you know this one time I had a sex dream about TGO and I've basically never felt clean since.  We sort of fell in love a little bit and I want to scrape my skin off like so much sad tomato soup.
LOL, he really quoted Lord of the Rings.
I lost it when the Sound of Music parody kicked in.....
Your videos are fantastic and I love your clothes!
This is so goooood
Nothing but praise for this video.  Brilliant stuff :)
I'll be honest, I thought the title was "Democracy" and it took 5 minutes to realize that it was "Degeneracy".  Although, to be fair, what's the difference?/s
queen of YouTube...... i love contra so much
Natalie is my favorite pure degenerate maiden.
When can I subscribe to your ASMR channel? <3
So happy to see the return of so many awesome characters! Doc might be my favorite
Let's run away together.
I just love this "subtle" weirdness.
for your next project can you please make an album??
"My favorite things" playing in the background during the decadence listing montage was hecking brilliant.
Not often some big content creator sticks up for the oppressed degeneistani people, thank you for your thoughts. Gonna go watch anime and browse 8chan.
Frankly I don't care what a person does as long as they are productive. Living on a planet is like waiting for space to kill you and if people are fucking idiots and don't realise that them not doing things because they are hard to do or slightly unpleasant can lead to the extinction of humanity. Im not saying everyone has to work in the coal mines. Productivity can be very subtle and hard to see. Your contributions to this world could stop the next Einstein from killing himself as a teenager when it seems like you just work an office job and party every weekend. However people who use identity and kink as a way to shirk on their responsibilities in life are not nice people in my book (like people who want to be treated like a baby again despite they being a 45 year old man with children). Things like songs, music and videos like these I would argue are productive as in they allow people to see new views or even just relax after a hard day at work. Basically I take fascist biopolitics to their obvious conclusion. The entire human species is one macro organism and making sure it doesn't die should be a top priority of every person involved. Ignoring things like climate change, space travel and ecological disasters is basically asking for your species to die out. Once humanity dies it out it basically means everyone's existence before that was ultimately meaningless and humanity as a nonadaptive species was rightly purged from existence. Which is why I'd argue the transcendence of human limitations should be a top priority for humanity. But thats enough edgy talk from a 19 year old Nietzsche loving guy.
You beautiful talented queen. Love it.
Great video like always but very crude reading of Nietzsche
Despite that segment Camile Paglia kicks ass.
Your best video yet! It was gorgeous.
You keep using that word...   https://youtu.be/Pi818Ieypvo  For your learning pleasure.  Otherwise great video. I love your content even though I disagree with some of your conclusions. Most of it is measured, reasonable, and well informed, but you're wrong about this particular term so I thought I'd post this. Fascism isn't just national exceptionalism combined with eugenics. It's doing whatever is necessary to ensure the survival of your nation in a constant state of total war. Thus many fascists simultaneously support both mild capitalism and socialism but hate communism and completely unregulated free markets. It seems clear that you can't be a fascist if you are pro free speech and pro free markets and pro nation since not socializing anything is in direct contradiction to historical fascist tactics.
i laughed at loud at putting the picture of zizek on the communism excerpt
I love everything in this video. Your continued fascination with Golden Boy, the return of the King Cobra and the burping at the TERF, the Fleetwood Mac... if this is degeneracy then sign me the heck up!
I just want to hear you sing
YAASSS. More GoldenContra fuel for our ship!
King Cobra and burping is the best response to bullshit
Awww come on miss! I'm working and you just go up and update? ;w;
Awesome. You really make my day every time you do a video.
Hail Caligula!
Thank god I'm a morning person. Oddly enough, I had a dream about making out with you....which is super creepy and weird of me but maybe I sensed a video coming???
Love me some decadence <3
Polygamy is not really an issue for most fascists.  If a man were to take multiple women and have a harem of sorts that would be fine with most other fascists.  I for one have wife, I could not imagine having more than one as women are pretty insane... they are pretty, and insane in equal measure.
If you opt for a full surgical sex change operation, you can always go back, by having a nose job and crafting a substantially sized manbits out of it - how cool is that!
I love this dudes sense of humor
The george soros bit cracked me up
IT'S HEREEEEE
🅱️ack on the menu 🅱️ois
“there’s plenty of time to be blackout when you’re dead, and you’re gonna be if you don’t take it slow.”
Also way to go babe your voice hasn't slipped at all (at least not noticibly) 😙
I loved this, thank you so much for all your content and hard work.
Most interesting and another good video.
Why are your videos so good?
Waking up and seeing a notification of a new Contra video? YES PLEASE!
This video is a good way to start my school day
Oh god. Oh god. Camille Pagila brings back memories.
Golden one isn't exactly a Fascist though, he believes in limited democracy. I.E. thinks voting is a good thing.
Golden One is still a thing now??? Urgh
You look absolutely gorgeous all the damn time
I don't agree with everything you say (okay, a lot of what you say), but your videos are really well done and entertaining. Also, that Thor looking fuck is retarded. Dave should have you on his show.
ContraPoints is best ASMR channel
Idk how I got here but this channel is awesome!
i got a huuuuge Harry Potter feeling from the beginning
I'm ace, disabled and a commie. Am I a degenerate degenerate degenerate? :o
riley j dennis, why did you destroy ancient rome?
and here I was about to go to bed.
Queen 👸🦄🌹✨
Is Camille Paglia blaming twinks for the fall of Rome?
Waking up after a late night of drinking and watching Contrapoints is the best way to wake up! Also I love your wallpaper (I know this kind of late to say) where did you get it?
Damn you Riley, how could you!!!
Gods forbid anyone from setting you straight
I'm extremely anti puritan I'm miss the 90's Hedonism it's why I find Millennials such a boring bunch, when I was a child in the 80's and early 90's aids was a terror. But by 1993 rave culture and medicine caught up and the fear of toilet seats was gone (yes kids used to think you got STDs from toilets) and I had cocks in my but by 1999, fueled on alcohol and e's dancing doing karaoke in bumuda shorts with 1 of very nice series of holiday girlfriends boy friends and once a ladyboy. But post 2004 a unhealthy drive of puritanism has washed over the west.
i blocked my t, i popped my e, let's talk about degeneracy
I like your propaganda. I think you are odd, but you offer a good look into the mind of leftist ideals.  Ideals that I find worthy of combating keep it up, I'm learning how best to counter you.
I NEVER REALLY CARED UNTIL I MET YOUUU 👐
oh boy, can't wait to see how many milliseconds it takes youtube to demonetize this
Absinthe!...***LET'S PARTEE LIKE IT'S 1899!***ヽ༼ ຈل͜ຈ༼ ▀̿Ĺ̯▀̿ ̿༽Ɵ͆ل͜Ɵ͆ ༽ﾉ
I have met old transvestites, honestly have these people never met a British mp. Also you are looking lovely today. Extra point that first clip of the golden one is sort of hilarious given that it’s about a society with matriarchal tendencies I guess he envisions being dependent on a woman.
Had to pause the video to put Heart Alone on Spotify and bust insane power ballad microphone poses. With a hair dryer. What am I, 12? Get me soft focus and a sheet of taffeta to wrap myself up and whirl around in. And a broadsword, please.
Also I am IN LOVE with that Mucha poster <3
Also, sorry that I am not totally up to snuff on my Contra-lore, but does pink hair science girl have a name?  She's my favourite of your characters :)
I have been refreshing your channel on and off for the past 2 days waiting for this video... I think it's time I joined your patreon lol.
YESSSSSSSS
We're discussing my favorite faschy once again, I'm so excited!!
Siddhartha Guatama says that suffering is caused by our clinging to things, it is only when we overcome all want that we will find true contentment. But fuck me Buddhists go a bit far with it eh? I mean how does listening to music cause suffering? I don't even..
Bath Bombs are the definition of decadence and degeneracy
Have you ever thought of suicide
3:50 "I'm the Eva Braun to your Adolf Hitler"
What could have been a humble, brief and coherant comment has been taken over by an insensitve glorified grandious pomposity for the sake of the youtube comments section and because I have a v.painful torn hamstring/slash sciatica and am being a miserable git. Lmfao – the following probably doesn’t remotely represent my personality, thoughts or opinions, but somehow here they are. The video is a great because they all have been. And as usual I’ll get triggered af.  RIP British Comedian Sean Hughes, aged 51.  Six points I was thinking about before watching this video (in order they popped into my head) i.e. I don’t need your fucking videos to provoke my consciousness bitch, though it is nice to share I guess (even if I am like a fly just buzzing around in the comments…   or maybe a fly in your soup…   Or, or, maybe a fly that buzzes into your teleporter, yes, yes, that’s right – insect politics! Be afraid, be very afraid!!! BE ONE WITH THE FLESH!!!! - You're afraid to dive into the plasma pool, aren't you? You're afraid to be destroyed and recreated, aren't you? I'll bet you think that you woke me up about the flesh, don't you? But you only know society's straight line about the flesh. You can't penetrate beyond society's sick, gray, fear of the flesh. Drink deep, or taste not, the plasma spring! Y'see what I'm saying? And I'm not just talking about sex and penetration. I'm talking about penetration beyond the veil of the flesh! A deep penetrating dive into the plasma pool!….ahem…  ok, ok, I’m fine…. It happens…): -  1) If there is no difference between the design processes involved in creating Wernher von Braun’s Nazi V-2 Rockets/Saturn 5 Rockets, a Barbie Doll, a Porsche and an Incubator for Premature Babies – then can the process ever be considered evil? Don’t we all just have a JOB to do? – American Pragmatism vs German Idealism vs Western Enlightenment Materialism vs Scientific Realism vs Constructive Impericism vs Instrumentalism vs Structuralism vs Queer (post-structuralism) vs Information Theory vs my god how many other perspectives are there? (and I don’t understand any of this!) woh ho ho ho! objectivity and subjectivity, ‘Fake News’ and plates of spaghetti hoops in tomato sauce covered in icecream and sprayed with coca cola to chicken slaughtering voodoo rituals with a skinless Frank from Hellraiser dancing the Macarena with flaming kebab sticks in each eye while killing it in a stand up comedy performance on meth and putting down a heckling of one-liners such as “I’ll tear your soul Apart!” from PinHead. ‘The Bureaucrat Song’ from ‘Futurama’. The amnesia effect of cash from Goldma Sachs. 2) An artist, a scientist and an engineering walk into a bar. All three of them go “OUCH!”. Then the engineer apologizes. That was a joke about epistemological debate. 3) Do you now feel more of an urge to suck a person’s whole body completely into your belly from between your legs if they have a good sense of humour rather than cock-twatting them in the face until they are unconscious from your comedic prowess? 4) There are three measures in-which males and females perfom more or less the same on average: - - The cambridge empathy and systemizing quotient tests (in which males were only slightly more systemizing than females, and females were only slightly more empathetic than males… but at the fringes only females had the very highest empathy and only males had the very highest systemizing) - The milgrim experiments in-which males and females showed the same outcome (if with different levels of displayed anxiety – also there were 30 different experiments….    The ‘classic milgrim experiement’ showed 65% of people shocking someone to death, whereas in some experiments these percentages were as high as 100% or as low as 0%). Though I don’t know in detail if there were any differences like in the cambridge tests above. - Both males and females have equal rates of commiting embezzlement and financial fraud….  Again, I don’t know if there were any differences like in the cambridge tests. 5) The Hilary Swank trilogy of movies: ‘Boys Don’t Cry’, ‘Million Dollar Baby’ and ‘You’re Not You” – are we all just ‘products’ in as much as a Ferrari or a hand bag?… Even if you fully consider that we are flesh? FLESH!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! Buzzzzzz…..  Has the word ‘Even’ now been ruined? 6) Freedom?... Help from state establishment institutions works by getting you hanging by your finger tips over the edge of a cliff to satisfy their conditions before they'll hold out a hand to help you up to freedom from your plight... As you reach forward with one hand towards theirs and loose your grip with the other hand as the cliff edge gives way, they pull their outstretched hand away with a sadistic grin as they watch you fall... ...with the realisation it was them who put you into your plight in the first place. While the crime is excused and disguised under the 'freedom' of democracy and libertarian 'free will'. 7) (Bonus) When the only choice is between a horse cock with blue balls you can’t control, or, being raped followed by having a painfully full milk udder. How is being non-binary/genderqueer/queer ever gonna get you away from masticating grass between continually throwing up from your stomach while being surrounded by tonnes of shit and lower life forms with David Lynch symbolism before you are eventually slaughtered by a leather face wearing chainsaw wielding maniac? 8) (bonus bonus) Bill Hicks joke about those who work in marketing should kill themselves. 9) (Fuck it) If am in a Contrapoints IdPol Cult (if?….), then do I have an identity? (identity?….) 10) (Christ) I am just scared I made it to ten points because it means maybe I’ll have to list all my points in terms of a ‘top ten’ and I just don’t know if I can handle it?  The theme tune to the above thoughts comprises ‘The Forgotten Robot Soldier’ theme From ‘Castle in the Sky’ by Hayao Miyazaki and Studio Ghibli (1986), ‘F.E.A.R.’ by Ian Brown from album ‘Music of the Spheres’ (2001), ‘Fitter Happier’ by Radiohead from album ‘OK Computer’ (1997), and ‘Spacer Woman’ by Charlie (1983 – KitLand remix 2013).  Stuff. Sigh. We’re doing the ‘Limbo’ all wrong.  Episode 42 of The Twilight Zone: Eye of the Beholder (1960).  11235 83145 94370 77415 61785 38190  99875 27965 16730 33695 49325 72910 Pingu the Penguin.  23571 37939 17137 39171 39397 13793 Hakuna Matata. The Incredible Shrinking Man…
Funding for ContraPoints is provided by satanic storytelling drag queens, fash bashing Juggalos, hissing antifa cat women and the bike lock wielding college professors who enable them, the DNC, a huge pair of googly eyes on a flaccid penis, George Soros, and viewers like you!
So is the Golden One part of the Contrapoints expanded universe?
Trudging up apartment steps,crushed by late capitalism Sees new Contra Points video Literally runs up last flight of stairs "Today just substantially improved"
Absolutely incredible
i was gonna watch porn but then i saw this
oh but what an amazing YT power couple you two would make...
I need to up my game.
epic
THE DARKMOTHER RETURNS
The more vids of Contra's I watch, the less I understand. I feel like I'm just watching a giant flow of conscious memes, what is happening???
Oh god why does the golden one still exist
ugh i'm so ready for this, get me that contra fix
if anything we need more degeneracy in this basic ass world
Uhh Art Nouveau... gettin fancy <3
>>>Virgin Natalie<<<  Someone better up update those fanfics.
Oh yes
Fuck me up mommy
... his name is LARS?! I can't take that seriously.
I'm so early gotta leave a comment but its too stressful I cant handle the pressure
that swimsuit really suits you!
I've been waiting for a week 😍😍 the $5 a month was worth it
<3
I HOPE YOU HAD A GOOD FLIGHT.  I AM SETTLED IN WITH MY THIRD COFFEE AND READY TO DEGENERATE.
decadence? this early in the morning? I deserve it. Opulence? I got it.
New Contrapoints!!! My shitty day just got a lot better. :D
Yes yes yes yes yes yes I love you
Oh my god I’m going to die contra you’re adorable.
yo
I've never clicked on a video this fast
You searched: Degeneracy  Did you mean: DeviantArt?
I'M SO READY
yessssSSSEBEUEJE
esketit.
I usually drink absinthe with a little ice and nothing else, but I wasn't about to pass up the chance to use an absinthe spoon on camera.
