THAT BURP WAS ROYAL TIER
Fuck niZchy
And now... three years later... Natalie has proven herself the chosen one.
I’m far from a leftist but I do keep finding myself watching your videos.  You aren’t preachy and condescending.
Fifty Shades wtf?
I really enjoy your videos.
They still make King Cobra?! Yikes!
Honestly one the greatest titles for a YT video EVER! cleveraf.. edit, maybe cleverest title for anything ever. Literal lols over here. I know I know I'm late tot the party but I'm glad to be here nonetheless 😍🤷‍♂️🤟
Back from the future, Natalie pretending to Gag is Amazing!
I should out Milo as a pan boy XD   Never mind that sounds like a lot of work
This is amazing
You are not the chosen one... You are the Golden One!
"Drunkenness and robotripping" Damn.
Milo Yiannopoulos is a paedo enabler
Milo Yiannopoulos is a paedo enabler
Two years later, Milo's career has been reduced to a footnote in the Shitlord History Book. Sometimes, there is a sprinkle of justice in this world. :^)
SHE BECAME THE BALANCE!! NATALIEEE
Your birthing video...I live 😍
Balanced, as all things should be
"Milo thinks he's Oscar Wilde, but he's not. he's fucking Dorian Gray! just like Lord Henry, amirite"  ok, so the ping-pong noise was the perfect complement to the pwning, but also to the mild arousal i just experienced. thx
contrapoints is the chosen one
Vintage 👌
TOGTFO
As a gay, I am *NOT* attracted to Milo. Anyone of good taste could never be attracted to such a buffoon.
You are indeed the choosen one Natalie
Anita is hot 😵
Hell, it’s been 3 years, and you certainly have brought balance to the force. You ARE the CHOSEN ONE. Rock on, Natalie! Never fucking stop (because where else am I going to get the goodness that you give?!)
You are God/dess!
I fell down the Anti-SJW rabbit hole after I had been hazed and sexually harassed by a group of female friends. All of whom where hypocritical left wingers. Anita reminded me of them, that’s why it was so easy for guys like Sargon to reprogram me to be a goosestepping Kekistani type. The leaders of this reactionary group on YouTube are morally reprehensible, but their following consists mostly of lost and confused young men.
Fun isn't something one considers when fighting for social justice but this does put a smile on my face
Accidentally just watch 2 mins of this at 0.5 speed because I forgot to set it back to normal. Just thought you should know that I was fully prepared to accept this as how you edited it. Great video btw
You should do a follow up on milo & look at what he’s posting now. Maybe look at how deplatforming isn’t revoking freedom of speech. Maybe don’t listen to me
Was 5:36 "being in the right side of morals" a pund?
Keep it warm and humourful, my fellow SJWs.   Nathalie on point as always.
ContraPoints: "That doesn't make it a good thing to do, like taking psychedelic drugs..." Me: *hold my beer* ContraPoints:  "...at Dave and Buster's" Me: "...yeah fair"
Yeah, I agree with Natalie here: Anita is hot.
Explain the title please.
Just to clarify when she talked about moral vs. aesthetic she did mean the apollonian vs. dionysian principles right?
Natalie, are you saying that you are *not* one of the leading clowns in the, quote, "circus" you say American politics has become?
“What YouTube needs, what _humanity_ needs, is someone who can balance the two principles: moral and aesthetic, light and dark, male and female, drunkenness and robotripping, daddy and mommy”  Contra would go on to balance the two principles, cure depression, save humanity, and look fantastic while doing it. And we all lived happily ever after, the end.
Well considering history of the right Milo is better than Nixon...
"it is I who must bring balance to the force"  And lo, she proceeded to do so. And it was good.
Thank God for this God
i wish i was this bomb ass bitch
Amen 🙏🏻😂
I can’t stop laughing lol
Yes, you are better than Nietzsche
Lol the king cobra beginning had me dying! Also damn it Nat you didn't finish that 40!
Nat maybe cool it on the booze. I don't want to lose you to liver failure.
It's amazing that this channel has followed the same philosophy preached as it went on. You have made great works. Please keep up the good work!
Did Anita say "pernicious" or "pornicious"  ??  It really sounded like pornicious to me.  Hah, pornicious!
You ARE the chosen one, by the by.
I love how in 2019, it's "Milo who?"  Not giving people platforms WORKS, people.
I'm starting to think there is a whole different kind of feminist culture of it's own on YouTube. I have been a feminist 20 years and I don't know who this woman is.
You're a genius and I love you.
Sam O'Nella Academy music playing in background (that's a great channel, as well)
ok, woah. king cobra was designed to be pounded, not sipped.
this is the non-canonical prequel to The Left and no one can tell me any different
This was like a shitty family guy episode but less funny and more face-palmy
Have you noticed that Milo always wears sunglasses and avoids looking directly into the camera?  I then noticed that he is cross-eyed and has a lazy eye.  His entire schtick is based on his insecurity about his lazy eye and cross-eyed condition.
Pallas Athena in the left upper corner.
milo is a provaca turd
Rewatching this while knowing Milo is now in $2M debt is blissening. Totally recommend it.
I listened to you on Ezra Klein's podcast today and was really impressed so I checked out some of your more popular videos like "Are Traps Gay". You're rightly getting praise for how you tackle complex issues and distill uncomfortable truths in a way that is palatable even for those that the truth may make most uncomfortable. You've made me question some of my positions even though I like to view myself as a pretty progressive guy, so thanks for that. But that part I kind of expected based on the interview. What I didn't expect is how fucking hilarious you are. I'm simultaneously getting a fantastic, nuanced critique of popular issues and absolutely laughing my ass off throughout. Thank you so much for your content.
This video goes really well with "the Darkness"
Sam O'Nella called, he wants his opening theme back
im crying. contra, you are beautiful baby
going to play floral shoppe
the sam o'nella music.....
and what's funny is that now three years later contra is indeed god
Now, you see? If Free Milo were glasses of chocolate milk, then maybe it would matter.
I thought this was about the Milo you put in Chocolate Milk... What a let down. It's just some guy who talks... I mean, this Milo person, not even good in milk. XD
According to vidcon you are the chosen one
first line: "mmm, snakey!"
so on point
I hope in my life I have the opportunity to use the line "I'll bitch all over your nips"
Such a straight dude... :) The gays have your number, Ms. Wynn.
I have subscribed! I fucking love you.
she was right, she’s the balance
Like the little creep I am, I am binge watching your videos and leaving comments everywhere 😍 I have a soul crush on you 💖 Keep doing the great stuff and totally agree on the importance of aesthetics. Beauty makes me so happy, as does play and it is sad when movements that are about beautiful ideals have slightly greying effects. Yay for you uniting morality and aesthetics 😍 Also - can I just pop in John Finnis? I know his views on homosexuality are.... questionable .... But that’s exactly why I am keen for a contrapoints breakdown of his work.
You are the chosen one.
I think more videos should end with the author announcing that they are god
I’m not a feminist, and a lot of the problem I have with a lot of feminists is not just aesthetic but with the ideas as well. I hear a lot of ridiculous accusations of racism and sexism that just don’t make sense, not to mention the double standard of phrases like “Girl power” and “Black power,” when the opposites would definitely be seen as offensive. I’m against double standards, and I think a lot of feminism is just misandry like a lot of antifeminism is just misogyny. Now that doesn’t mean I disagree with all feminists, nor do I disagree with all antifeminists.
What is Malt Licker?
Milo is the epitome of a lickspitting fuktard who is just a freakish sideshow distraction of the right to keep all their idiot believers from noticing the pain of being anal raped by trump and pigco.
Holy shit im watching her videos backwards so wow the transition is insane
I just discovered your channel and have been gradually bingeing on yours (and philosophy tube's) videos from the present and working backwards. This one is quite a skip back in time.  It's so fun to see how much you've progressed from here in 2016 to now in 2019! You've definitely honed your video-making craft, and while I think you're quite fetching here, you've clearly taken your fashion and poise to a whole new level now! Keep being awesome!   BTW, whatever happened to dear Milo? We haven't heard much from him lately. He must be missed... by.... um... someone.
You are good. I will keep watching
Contrapoints frivolously objects to academic feminism's objection to frivolity.
"Oh god the dysphoria!" ~ Contra, 2019  Jokes aside, I can really see the beginnings of contrapoints in these early videos. I absolutely laughed my ass off, and still felt like I learned something. Really happy that I got to watch her grow into the woman she is today!
Baby contrapoints is the coolest contrapoints
You are the chosen one. Your analysis is amazing. I agree with your critiques of Anita. I don't like her because it's clear she's not a gamer and just found a specialized niche for her basic AF style of Femininist/Cultural Analysis. She's not brilliant, she just literally did something that no one had done before at a time when there was a platform for it: apply literary/cultural theory with a feminist lens to video games. All of the points she make could be gleaned from a freshman survey course on feminist and cultural theory. She also ignores the nuances in the games she criticizes and doesn't acknowledge any games with strong female leads that challenge her basic assertions about tropes and representation. If she had even half the depth, mastery of philosophical concepts and arguments and speaking prowess as you, I would STFU and golf clap.
Natalie was awesome even before she was awesome. Maybe even before she was Natalie.
I'm rewatching Natalie's old videos just to smile at how much happier she's become after transitioning.  Natalie, if you see this, I want you to know that we're all very proud of you!
how many times can you obliterate some one including yourself and still come out as GOD?
Do you still stand by this video almost three years later? I'm really curious to know.
Something about you just tickles my brain in all the right spots... I WANT MORE! haha Love you 😘
ROBOTRIPPIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIING!!!!!!!
Did you really drink that 40? I don't know if I'm impressed or disgusted.
At the risk of sounding dogmatic, I'm starting to wonder whether ContraPoints is in fact God...
Takeaway: Fabulous procokturd got hard-hatted  by the commie sympathizers in the bleak world known as Berkeley where everyone goes around critiquing things, no one could have sex the whole time he was there, it was miserable and it was all over everyone's nips...the next day it was right back to the good life, the human life, the moist battle again' the Belle Trolls.
6:00  "Much better philosopher than......... HE!!!!"
I can't fucking stand REAL immigrant invaders and colonizers like Milo who have the fucking nerve to come here to the  Western Hemisphere, and point their dirty colonizing fingers at others who've been roaming this land as their ancestors roamed it long before disrespectful unwelcome real invaders like Milo came along, and having the nerve to call them illegals, invaders etc. Thing is I don't see all non Natives as colonizers & invaders, hell I actually love people like you Natalie being here, you are awesome, and I feel you have added & contributed so much to this country/society with your funny awesomeness. It would be a little boring without you being here, dare I say. Anyway as always thanks for the laughs Ms Points.                                            Fuck Milo, Trumperdinka, little tightie alt righties and the likes.
"Drunkenness and Robo Tripping"   Fucking lol.
So, I guess really cute guys generally make rather pretty girls.  (also, sorry for going back to your "older" videos when you repeatedly asked that I not)
Dat Hegelian Dialectic.
God damn, i love this woman
I am 100% convinced that heshehesheheshe is the chosen one to lead the internet to glory
You have become a good balance of both.
You are the chosen one
"I'LL BITCH ALL OVER YOUR GODDAMN NIPS"
In his war against people not paying attention to him. XD
Tripe.   another boy who wants to be a girl
This was pretty great...
Given Milo's latest attempts to stay relevant, this video has aged incredibly well......I am not sure if this is sarcasm or not
Sorta zoned out for the main part of the video, but I agree with the conclusion
the video where contra solves her own existence... she'll save us right?
Of course he condones pedophilia.
Perhaps some if the distaste for glamour and excess comes from the working class base and the influence of Punk music, which is itself (aside from the Sex Pistols) rooted in stripping out the excess and self indulgence of the acid rock movement that came before
On the bright side, 2 years later, Natalie is more relevant than ever and Milo has fallen completely out of vogue.
More like, your mothers soul was **CLAMMED** right??
Oh my god, thank you for making me imagine a Hunter S. Thompson book where he takes mescaline in Dave and Buster’s. I only wish I had seen this when it was released so I wouldn’t have wasted the last 2 years not thinking about that.
Jesus God. Contrapoints for President...I mean not really, but...really.
I think the main problem about Anita read that she lied a lot. Also she didn't have much constructive to say. She just complained and complained, often about things that weren't even real.
I died at "daddy and mommy" hilarious and perfect description
Literal LOL. That's a very rare treat in a video that's so philosophically deep, which I think is the very thing you are trying to accomplish.
Almost 3 years since this video, and it looks like Natalie won this battle of ideas
2 years later and Contrapoints is the one who is described as Oscar Wilde by Vice
The Anita picture always makes me laugh. It’s just there you know.
Beneath your dignity?? You are a man in a womans dress, drinking out of the bottle and telling us the same shit as always...go back to jerk of to jordans photos..i know you want to change things for the better..but it will lead nowhere..it will just speed things up..
Whomsthe*
Can we cut/tweak all the belches into Beethoven's "Ode to Joy"?
Natalie truly is the chosen one
I have gone from being a rad fem (after years, I couldn't tolerate the constant finger pointing and man-hating) to being a Milo fan and now... After 2 years of watching and listening to him, I cannot support him anymore. He humiliated fat men in gyms trying to better themselves whilst simultaneously bitching about how fat people are lazy and need to lose weight, etc. He's quite the shallow creature, no actual real depth to his words.  I don't always agree with Contrapoints but at least Contrapoints explains opinions and perspectives in an intelligent, coherent way that.
LOVE THE BACH!!! <3
I really like you videos, but using Bach >>specially Brandenburgische Konzerte<<  as background music isn't a good idea. This music is complex and distract from the words and the word distract from the music. I would recommend something less complex like Telemann, Lully or CPE Bach ;)
I CANNOT BELIEVE HOW BRILLIANT AND AMAZING YOU ARE HOLY FUCK
How many people out here have fallen in love with you? It seems so easy to do.
"OMG, I am the chosen one!" Back here in 2019 and, actually, you have become the chosen one.
Can you please run the world already? Thank you. X
Oh my god, watching this in space year 2019 and seeing that this is when Natalie realized her true power as the balance of aesthetic and moral...!! Your videos have always been amazing, but I feel like they've only continued to grow in amazingness.
I appreciate your way of speaking to the right. Actually making a point instead of screaming and getting triggered over everything. Even if I dont agree with everything i respect you alot.
That was a legendary conclusion
Interesting article  "The rise of Milo Yiannopoulos, the Telegraph years, and why I am partly to blame" by  Iain Martin https://reaction.life/rise-milo-yiannopoulos-telegraph-years-partly-blame/
Milo isn’t jewish lol. His maternal grandmother is. He’s just another catholic that wants to escape being called a neo nazi by bringing up jewish heritage that wouldn’t even have gotten him killed under Nuremberg laws. He’s a fake.
three years later and contra has created a youtube renaissance! influencing the biggest left-tube channels into embracing the aesthetic while pedalling their morals. contra really was the chosen one.
oh Ma Deesse, Mon Dieu, I love your balance! ♥
Actually I think the Pokemon theory that's running around now is that Marowak is actually a baby Charmander who's mother has died, goes through a physical change and wears it's mothers skull to make it a Cubone, then fuses into the skull to make it a Marowak.
Hello 2 years later Milo has fallen off
It's really not fair of you to give someone a hard time for not being funny, you don't know what it's like.
I love ❤️ you. You young, beautiful miss are my hero, my philosopher, my smart sister.
Milo is just an amateur troll. If you're not interesting and funny relatively consistently without being stupidly hurtful, you just get blocked into oblivion which is where he is at. To be fair, we've all been there - but we learnt and developed ourselves (and a new handle). He can't, thus it's over.
Jump to 2019 and ContraPoints is THE *QUEEN OF MORALSTHETICS* . Prophesy fulfilled. So proud of you and how far you've cum, Natalie <3
Our morally and aesthetically balanced Queen!
I would love to hang out with you
ah 2016 when anita was still relevant. It's good that nobody cares about her anymore, she really did not add anything.
Yikes, you are brave for drinking that crappy malt liquor, hahaha. Love your videos 93
Watching this now: you became the chosen one, and the internet is better for it.
Contrapoints has brought humor and aesthetics to the Left
oh hell yeah
Anyone else trying to see as many book titles as possible?  Just found your channel contrapoints and I'm in love. How did i not find you sooner?  Where have I been?  I need to crawl.out from my rock more often.
You're amazing!!
Your sound design has improved.
My biggest problem with Anita is that she's quite literally a scam artist, if you look at her history of misappropriating funds.  Not suggesting Milois great, he's a piece of shit too. And while Gamergate was a fucking mess and many of it's supporters were misogynistic douchebags, the movement had a valid point, and it exposed a lot of corruption.
if taking psychedelics at a chain video arcade makes me overly self-indulgent then you can call me Aristippus
'I do man things!' yes, yes you do xD
1:51 is that like, body armor or something?  wtf is he wearing?
Lé rlrlrlrleæßœ d’éætcchrêæa or the reason for existence
Liked for Nietzsche burn
It's really interesting watching this video from the year 2019, seeing how you've truly become the chosen one. Proud of you Natalie!
You do realize that feminism has to be hyper-academic to counter misogynists trying to  de-legitimize it by white male elitism dominating these arenas (as proven in your correction of her French pronunciation) right?  We want to give misogynists as little reason to call us whores, dumb bitches, witches, cunts and slags, slaughter and rape us as possible.  To stick to the point and be concise enough to hold their attention with the credibility we need.  Due to your socialization, you've very likely never had to fight tooth and nail for this credibility (certainly not for stating facts for which Anita was and still is endagered in many ways), and as a result you're more comfortable taking edgy, artistic risks for mass consumption (likely not critique) and critiquing Anita's bravery for not.  I guess optics really don't matter, though, as true feminism will be smeared either way.  It is like breathing in fresh air or drinking cold water to hear Anita, Lee Lakeman and Meghan Murphy speak so academically and undeniably about their priorities.
As an absolute shitlord who actually thinks Anita is a pretty bad person on many levels, she is, indeed, quite beautiful.
That Milo Toppulis-thing should keep his trap shut about gamers!!! We're a damn cool bunch. At least we have friends AND girlfriends who game with us! Big sad loser he is indeed!   The un-coolest gay outhere, that Milo. And he is up his own arsh.
05:52 anybody know the name of this song? i have a need <3
Are you belching through out this video or are you hacking up a hairball? My cat makes the same strange sounds and movements right before he barfs up a hairy mouth turd.
Three years later, ContraPoints really is the stylish mother Goddess of SJW philosophy, balancing entertaining sarcasm and self-deprecation with illuminating, wholesome discourse. The Prophecy came true!
You are the chosen one. Confirmed.
Don't you dare spoil Metallica's name like that!
You're God too? Gosh I'm cool, my goodness!
talking about viewpoints while drinking? instant subscribe.
Did I hear a sound from 3d ultra pinball?
Did you seriously drink all of that, Jesus. Respect.
I would like a T-Shirt that says "I'll bitch all over your goddam nips" plz
I just wanna be you when I grow up...
WHAT you do not despise Anita? i thought that is the whole point of her picture everywhere ;)
Natalie is The Goddess and i worship her who is with me
Woke up at dawn ... put your videos on went back to sleep   Who needs TV   Had some strange dreams
Not a fan of anita. Can't stand her. When I hear that games can make you sexist, all I can see "yet another Jack Thompson activist". Look bud, unless there is evidence of claims like "woman being portrayed as sexy can make people sexist" I won't buy it.  But I do agree that milo is far more toxic than anita.
Milo isn't all that bad. I think he is interesting to watch. Trying to read his book was pretty hard though. His whole first book was basically all about him and why people hate him.
10/10 burps
Drink malt liquor mixed with robitussin to achieve enlightenment
Two years later: you‘ve successfully fulfilled the prophecy, ô chosen one!
Ah... The hero we needed desperately. Finally, he is arisen.
Fifty shades😱😱😱😱
Except Contrapoints actually makes valid points while Anita’s just moans about how things need to be less provocative like she’s a Victorian era Protestant.
Hail Contra!
Right: Identity politics are silly and stupid! Also right: LOOK WE HAVE A GAY MAN ON OUR SIDE WHADDAYA GONNA DO NOW!
I mean from a leftist perspective i see the problem with Anita that shes dishonest,manipulative and mostly just out to get cash. All of the qualities Milo has, Anita is just boring though.
5:00
No Nietzsche D: I love him so much.  So se should ve like Voltaire...
i like the fuck you neetche part best
I don't really understand you at all but all Milo seems to be doing is just expressing and maybe exagurating his opinions for money, uncensored, and the reason people like him is obv bc of relatibilty, he is not boring and he does not "fit in", most main-stream people are boring and ALWAYS seems to fit in, most normal people does not feel like they fit in (just like Milo) and literally noone wants to be boring (Milo is tbh the opposite of boring) so naturally, people like Milo, this was maybe your point, i didn't listen to carefully
SIKE
You are the missing punk rock element that has been gradually sucked out of the left.
ugh! I'm such a rightie and I still love you somehow. fucking humorous, intelligent libtard. damn you
6:25:  C'mon say it, "Apollonian and Dionysian"
This was just too good!!
Dude....I luv King cobra.thumbs up
whats the classical piece playing in the background?
I thought I couldn't grok you more. Then I saw Moby Dick on your shelf... right behind your delicious, beer-swilling bod.
this video is pure gold. can't even recognize you ahah
Stop it, get some help
Do u read Chinese?
Natalie just casually dunking on Nietzsche... I love it
From what little I have seen of Anita her research is extremely confirmation biased. She doesn't do good research which is why I dislike her. Her way of thinking seems to be "videos games do X and I will prove it". Opposed to, "what do video games do, let's find out."
You should get someone to gender the pronouns in the Spanish subs correctly. I can do it if you want
Wow, your transition has been very successful. Good for you!
Immediate thumbs down on this video for drinking Kings Cobra I don't even care what the rest of the content is
FUCK YOU NIETZSCHE!
Milo was literally just a momentary and rather fleeting figure... Here is his google search trend graph now...  https://trends.google.com/trends/explore?date=today%205-y&geo=US&q=%2Fm%2F0crgcgb
6:02 - To be fair, this kind of attitude towards Nietzsche is THE most Nietzscheanic (?) thing a student can do. "A pupil does not not thank his teacher fully unless he becomes a teacher himself."
Goddammit, why are you so good at this?
Did not expect this video to explain Contra's origin story. Your aesthetic/moral balance is indeed the perfect way to cover political issues.
YOU ARE THE CHOSEN ONE! I LOVE YOU NATALIE WYNN!!! <3
revisiting this bc milo is poor as fuck lmao
You are so ducking awesome.
Milo is a provocateur, just wanting to stir up whatever contraversy he can to inflate his own brand. He certainly isn’t a conservative, but some of those of the right like him simply because of how angry he gets the left. “The enemy of my enemy is my friend” in their eyes, but sometimes, enemy of your enemy is just a jackass.
To be fair, the Left, on average, being disdainful of glamour and excess is hardly unreasonable. It's generally the realm of the wealthy and powerful, the oppressors to roll in mountains of ill-gotten wealth and are free to bury themselves in hedonism. So there's a negative association with it. But of course there's nothing inherently wrong with being glamorous or fabulous or even hedonistic. It's only an issue when the means of these things are generated through immoral means.
I subbed for the Fifty Shades and Anita.
shout out to the robotrippers, ill see you on the 3rd plateau
Did Anita just make a portmanteau of “porn” and “pernicious”? I swear I hear “pornicious.”
Great pokemon reference.
I'm hearing you say that without something to get off on in politics—but also something to die for—you have no hope.
What in the name of cuckoldry is this?
I used to feel more 'meh,' toward Sarkeesian, but lately I've really come around to liking her and appreciating her work a lot more. Not everyone is a great entertainer, and I just doubt if she were more 'likable,' which is subjective, she would not be hated as much. Carolyn Petit (whom now co-hosts with her on feminist frequency radio) gave Grand Theft Auto V a 9/10 and people still wanted her fired. Brianna Wu literally didn't do anything except make a video game and people wanted to crucify her too. Popculture Detecttive, a male feminist, whom was a producer on Feminist Frequency literally does the same academic, dry critique of games and pop culture in general and his comments section is full of positive feedback.    Also, as far as I can tell she was one of the first well-known people to take online harassment seriously,  which in the wake of incel shootings and mass shootings in general was ahead of its time. Most people did not take it that seriously, back in the day, and now more people are so that's a plus. It's always kinda pissed me off how women are treated in video games too, as much as I like video games. It's cathartic to me to have someone just call the industry on its bullshit rather than throwing in some lame jokes to try and lighten the mood. It's hardly escapism, when you try to leave the real world where women and others are treated like crap to enter a fantasy where women and others are also treated like crap.
2 years later and he’s $4 million in the hole.  COMMUNISM WILL PREVAIL!
The trouble for me with Anita is her lack of originality. Granted, that's ok. She just wants to present by now old second wave feminist ideas for an audience that doesn't know them. But as a theorist in her own right that makes her kinda  unnoteworthy. And given she's all that some people know of feminism, the fact that she doesn't usually acknowledge other feminist viewpoints probably confuses them as to what feminism on the whole is.
shit. Shit. I love you so much. Everything you do. I'm drunk. But Shit. I love you so much.
genuine belly laugh at the mommy daddy ending
You are an attractive human being male or female.
What's your Meyers-Briggs type?
This video and the video title especially are prophetic, both in Milo's fall from grace(and hella debt) Anita's feminist effect on videogames, and contras rise as a star among progressives(the chosen one)
You ARE the chosen one, dahling!
Friends don't let friends drink snakebite. Olde E is the only way to go for power over taste.
Your line about Milo thinking he's Oscar Wilde made me think of this song from a gay punk band from the 90's called Pansy Division. It's called Negative Queen and the opening is the following: "He thinks he's Oscar Wilde, but he's Paul Lynde Can't say anything good about anything He flips his cigarette with disdain You've failed to live up to his standards again He's a negative queen, he's a negative queen He reads all the latest magazines He's quick to follow, but thinks he's in the lead"
Snakey!!! bwa ha ha !
im sorry i leave the same comments in all of your videos but i love you so much
I like the counter-counter-counter-counterculture.
Actually I totally agree with the conclusion
You probably already know this but Kierkegaard wrote a whole book about the aesthetic vs the ethical
PSA: I noticed the bottle of robitussin on screen at 7:23 has guaifenesin in it.  This is the least dangerous additive that could be there with dextromethorphan, but it’ll still give you a bad time if you take a lot.
Milo Yingyangwhatshisname, liked before it even started, must be good!
Anita is pretty dishonest and uninformed about video games, though. And she cherry-picks and removes context like crazy. Also argues things like "damsel in distress" being bad, but ignores its inherent counterpart, "dude is disposable". Or like that time she pretended Batman's butt is shielded by specialized physics code on his cape designed to cover his manly cheeks at all times. Ignored that he has at least one costume with no cape. Ignored that his cape doesn't always cover his butt, but usually does because IT'S A FUCKING CAPE, IDIOT. The point is that she's basically full of shit and makes dishonest criticisms in the name of something that should be handled honestly and could actually be important or relevant.
What the fuck is the song played at 5:54??
This video was prescient
lol was that a metallica reference in the title 🤔
She's thea Gruimer because sjw=ickuy. Likr if game5s tise up
Moral and aesthetic have reached the perfect balance in contra's recent videos
This is one of the last videos of yours, at the time of this post, that I've yet to see in your channel, and having seen your latest ones far before this one; I have to agree with HBomberman's notion that prequels are good. Nats, baby, thank you for being such a much needed oasis of cool waters in this volcanic wasteland of shit in the land of thought-provoking Youtube channels.
The photo of Anita on the shelf is a perfect touch.
The chosen twink... Ok god, that no longer applies. Nevertheless, I must say that your new videos are more A E S T H E T I C. :3
I no longer buy into the bullshit hate mob surrounding Anita Sarkeesian (I used to, mainly for the reasons you mentioned) but I find her criticisms a bit petty and in some cases outright not picking. Then again nit picking can be fun. Also I agree with your attack on Nietzche I do not like that fellow very much.
I popped a 40 and belched along with you while watching this. Fantastic viewer experience, 10/10 will do again in a few minutes on another video, i have some wine around here somewhere
"Why do people hate Anita Sarkeesian." I think this deserves simplicity. There's a few reasons I can think of that Anita could be hated:  1. Anita makes bad videos or says things which are wrong. 2. Anita is made to look like she makes bad points and that she does this because of some evil intention to profiteer rather than to really forward social justice - essentially making her seem like a hollow messiah. 3. People believe in the above, and Anita isn't the straw man that's been told, but others believe it for a myriad of reasons. 4. People continue to hate Anita Sarkeesian in the face of contradictory evidence because them being fooled is a bad thing, especially amongst a culture of people who reinforce the idea of competence and shun people who are failures, basically. You must be an alpha male, because if you're not, you will be bullied by the other 'alpha males' for wrong think. 5. Fear of failure.
The left and especially radical feminists are hilarious. Please inform me of all the astheticlly beautiful, stylized humorous art produced by the wing nuts.
5:45 that free arm is elegant af
Holy shit that intro is like a mirror into my fucking soul.
Idk why you hate these older videos so much! Youre amazing, sexy and intellegent both pre and post transition! Im a huge fan.
Milo is consciously (it has GOT to be consciously) emulating the style of Michael Alig, or more specifically Macaulay Culkin as Michael Alig, combined with a little Hitchens and je ne sais qui, maybe Dan Lok? Discuss. Use the term "Party Monster" in the title of your essay.
1:26  you absolute legend
So, Contra does DXM.
I know I'm a bit late to the show with this comment but fuck it why not. When you asked why people have a problem with Anita's critiques (assuming it's not based on pure misogyny), I think it has, in part, to do with the theories she uses to evaluate games, and also that her ideas have spread into the mainstream and are perpetuating some inaccurate ideas about games as an art form. Liana Kerzner makes some interesting points about this and I agree with her. Anita uses linear media theory, such as film and literature theory, rather than looking more at ludo theory. She takes ideas like the male gaze and objectification that would describe the cinematography of a film, and applies it to games. The issue with this is that it misses that games are a completely different medium from linear media. When you're playing a fighting game, you're not looking at the attractive avatar you're controlling, you're focusing on the mechanics of the game, and not getting your avatar killed.  In other kinds of games the player controls the camera, so it's up to them how sleazy they want to make the imagery on the screen. The game itself isn't encouraging any kind of objectifying imagery, it's the player. So what you'll find is that misogynistic players will do misogynistic things with the camera, whereas respectful players won't. It'd be misleading to say that games encourage misogyny purely because it allows the audience more freedom than other media. Additionally, I take issue with her saying any female character with large breasts is problematic and harmful to women, because there are women out there who have those proportions and we shouldn't body-shame them by telling them their breasts are harmful to women purely by existing in a game. If the character is treated respectfully and empowered, it shouldn't matter how they're proportioned.
This is what I needed
Anita's style, reminiscent of a smug older sibling who's been left in charge while the parents are out isn't what really pisses people off. It's the things she gets away with that people develop blind spots for - the bitch is teflon and you can't help but resent that. I remember when she first came out she presented herself as a gamer and critic, showing a pic of her as a sprog with a SNES, but then there's that vid where she explicitly states she only recently looked at gaming, and thinks its 'gross'. Presenting yourself in different ways to gain credibility with different groups of people usually gets you marked down, but not ol' saint Anita. She pinched a bunch of gaming footage and didn't give credit (featured in those videos that got crowdfunded well over the odds), but meany heads abused their caps lock on the internet and said horrid things about her, so we'l let theft pass. Her shallow observations are based on cherry-picked examples, twisted to fit the conclusion she went in with beforehand. Add all of this to the fact she is quite happy to submit her opinions on public forums but will not defend them in any kind of exchange, then starts chatting shit about checking privilege, and you can see why the response is so visceral. Fuck that outrage peddling shyster right in the ear. She only fleeces credulous morons with more money than sense though, and turned the people that think they are opposing her into a weird sort of inverted PR machine for herself, so fair play for that part, it's a good scam she's got running.   Also Milos a twat.
"A gay jew, you'd think he'd be guaranteed to be funny." Thanks Contrapoints, I coughed up milk over my keyboard.
We R GOD/DrESSES
someone halp I haz crush.
oh my god you were so different
6:33  So drunk! 😆
I'm binging your videos backwards, and it's interesting to watch you transition from a woman into a man!
We don.t want feminist in our media comic or video game
<3
All hail the Chosen One, long be your reign.
I think I love you. I have a bf but... yeah..
You ARE the chosen one!
Why the hell do right-wingers use George Orwell to criticize leftists.  He was a goddamn Socialists.
never delete this one. If only so we know where the shrine came from...
How much do I have to pledge on Patreon to drink forties with you in a smoky parlor until 5am
I hope you're for real about representing thinkers that drink Cobras for leisure haha. It's something I used to do but I would pour it in a glass. To keep the home-bottle cold
I love you Mommie. I sympathize with your style.
You are the chosen one, ContraPoints!
whoa just came back from 2018 and she got so much better and weirder, video-making-wise.
I smell Samonella classical
When someone writes her dissertation about you one day, she will reference this video as a prolegomana of sorts.
Yeah, you are reminiscent of a result of the Conan O'brien sketch called "If they mated" but ideologies also considered.
Contra you ARE the chosen one! I'd proudly fight and die by your side in the equality crusade/jihad (same thing)
I know I shouldn't watch videos from before contrapoints transitioned, but I just want to point out that when transphobes claim with no scientific evidence that trans people taking hormones are poisoning their bodies that they should be far more conserned with the amount of alcohol Contrapoints consumes
While I do disagree with Anita Sarkeesian and the way she handles criticism heavily, I do stand by that this is a good video.
Bruns and reads. I'm hereeee for it.
7:26 This reminded me of Xavier: Renegade Angel
Look who's talking, Gaga.
You are a _vastly_ better philosopher than Nietzsche.
ehh did you know gameing isnt funny
Anita is cute.
to put it succinctly,  he ain't about shit
People like you are the reason I'm pansexual. Fuck, you're hot and smart ❤️
French viewer here, Anita's pronunciation of "raison d’être" was pretty good (for an english speaker).
One thing that Ive wondered, what does Milo care about other that provoking? Does he have values that arent controversial? Does he have hobbies or passions?
Apollo & Dionysus are not academic jargon, they are 2 full of life Greek god types. Apollo is radiating beauty thru self discipline and control, Dionysus is musical rapture thru spiritual openness and an emersive intoxication of life.   There is a distinction Nietzsche makes between the apolloniam spirit (which he sees in homer and Shakespeare, among others) vs the evil enlightenment spirit perfected by Socrates.. and inverted Greek culture. Well, Into something more lifeless and excessively moral
the long history of the right kidnapping the flags the left would traditionally bear to rejuvenate its vampiric leathery exterior
title galore
Record a video while "robotripping" or gtfo
You are most certainly the chosen one. I have many liberal ideas and many conservative ones. You are the perfect balance. Logic with humanity. And the self-depricating humor with several layers of irony proves you are an introvert with extrovert stylings.
That's a shocking conclusion, contra!
god damn it i love you
When you list your criticisms of Anita, you fail to mention the main point, that she's Armenian. And this is Murika! We don't take kindly to their kind!
fucken respect to anyone that can slam cobra.  Please share your thoughts on steel reserve.
You are indeed what we need my metamodern wet dream
I feel like Anita brought on a new era. Or at least she did for me. And now here, Natalie/Contra... basically precongizantly states that she’ll be the one to lead us into the free world. The two great women leaders of YouTube and online feminism tbh
Do you like witch house as well?  I know it’s been around since 2010 and by this point is as old as a dirty dish rag but I still love it
love to you and anita
3:09 is my absolute favorite part AHAHAHAH  anyway i just started watching recently and i love your videos! Keep em comin pls
Yeah, the treatment of Anita Sarkeesian is completely fucked. No argument here. Also Milo's day is done. _Good_ .
This is my mood today. You are the best person on the internet. Natalie, thank you.
I ❤ Sedaris
I am actually completely ready by this point to accept contrapoints as the new messiah, yep I see absolutely no problem with that in any way.
BEST PUN EVA AND I WANT TO HAVE DAVID SEDARIS' BABIES  And she does come across as whiny and kill-joyesque unfortunately. Why don't those butt-hurt mysognists just not watch her?
Did you decide to this video wasted?? 'The bottle'
Who else got distracted by the books and had to keep going back for the talk? That's a very nice shelf.
Post
Mmmmmhhmmm.. I could suck both milos and contrapoints dick. Maybe even have a threesome with them both. Mmmhhhmmm
Easily offended liberals are the low-hanging fruit who ruin the cause for everyone.
WHAT THEY SAY: "Feminists need too lighten up!!!1!" WHAT THEY MEAN: "My brain has an off switch, where's yours?"
Yes, Anita is cute
,,, "but something being beneath my dignity has never been enough to stop me before"  Now that is what I call inspiring! lmao!
Haha. You are the chosen one.
6:15 This is the essence of the video. Very good
I never cared- or will ever care- for Milo. I think some people, like me, just felt sorry for him. I agree that Milo is, essentially, a facade but underneath it all, I cannot help wondering if there isn't a gay man so enmeshed in self-loathing that one cannot help but pity him.  With all this said, I have long ago stopped feeling this way. It doesn't much matter, Milo has crossed a line and become a monster and trying to make excuses for his horrendous behavior is just an empty exercise to match the shell of a man.
ur my role model
"I'll bitch all over your goddamn nips!" -ContraPoint
I belive in you as the chosen one
It took three shots of tequila to get up the courage to tell you that this channel has become my new favorite, I love learning from you, and I'm so glad you exist. Three shots cuz I'm soops intimidated by your intellect, btw.
What's the song from 5:53  I hear this everywhere but don't know how to search for it.
3:57 oh, that is some serious beef.  I did not expect food porn.
I knew you were Slytherin!
It's like her whole youtube career after this is a reaction to this video
Honestly Milo is just a jerk. You'd think as a gay jew he'd be able to make self-depricating jokes. But the point is, you'd have to be not a self-centered jerk for that. So it is against the laws of nature for Milo to make himself the object of ridicule. Reality itself might collapse as soon as he does that.
3:54 is that image real or photoshopped? I don't know why it's bothering me so much, but I need to know!
So what exactly is Anita Sarkeesian right on? would love to see an actual argument since you haven't given any. She consistently misrepresents reality and media she claims to have researched.  Its pathetic. Everything to her is sexist in some way and cant see past her delusion
This was perfect.
we love u
Air horn and Brandenburg 5 (I think?). It can only be ContraPoints. OK, on with the video!
HOT DANG THAT'S SOME NIETZSCHE SHADE I CAN GET BEHIND
05:06....LMAO! "Confess. Oh, I confess." What was that? That was awesome. So, wanna know where it's from?
Anita would A Wynnyvitch a legendary Pokemon that has potent sound attack capable of inducing sleep upon other Pokemons and their trainers.
Well done, leftist. You walked away from the joyless Social Justice Warring, and emerged into the joyful Cosplay Youtube battles (where political debates happen nowadays). Great fast-paced editing.
Milo is only a quarter Jewish, and considers himself Roman Catholic. Have you ever met a funny self proclaiming Roman Catholic?
Dear Coquette sent me here and I couldn’t be happier - this channel is fkn outstanding
Oh yay another douchie white knight (milo) riding in on his horse (Coulter). Side note who is the person in the picture. I've seen her in several episodes and I'm curious.
The alcoholism in all these videos makes me feel like my family is normal.  Thank you.
What a weird creature.. why cant I stop watching?
I fucking love you. you aesthetically moral bitch 💜💚💙💛
Can I be your goddam campaign manager when you run for goddam governor of whatever goddam state you reside in?
Ive literally never expected to see Robo in this context
Was this video classified for like a year???not seen it in ages
he is not a jew, he is a catholic
**Sigh** Must we talk about this looney?
Why do you have 50 Shades of Grey? There’s so much better BDSM porn literature out there.
GO TRUMP 2020. BECAUSE  IM A SHITTY PERSON.
I think you may be one of the chosen ones. In a world of both right wing and now left wing shitlords somone both capable of wielding words and not bat shit gone to one side is a rare thing.
All hail the Chosen One!!!!
You're such a qt3.14.   Also ease up Nietzsche, dude's a founding father of existentialism.
Better philosopher than Nietzsche? Sorry, can't take you seriously while drinking a 40.  St. Ides > King Cobra.
Daddy Natalie; you /are/ the chosen one
It was a cliché and the translation maybe unnecessary, but her pronunciation was fine. For an American it was pretty good actually.
Eh, you had me up until Anita stuff. I've tried to watch through her stuff, it's absolute whiny trash. "You see, this character walks differently because she's a GIRL. And that's MISOGYNISTIC" like girls walk different because we have HIPS. and they are BEAUTIFUL. Girls have exaggerated curves, guys have exaggerated muscles. It's been that way sense the invention of art!!  The rest I'm okay with haha
Oh man, I just caught the sight gag that is Fifty Shades.
Biiiitch, did you tune that siren to the music? Fuck yeah.
This is a fabulous balance of style and substance. Please produce more stuff. Love it!
King Cobra and classical music....Sounds like a perfect tuesday morning!
I’m so confused about Milo I hate him but he’s Jewish and gay and fabulous you’d think he’d champion the left or the lefts ideas at least
7:33  I am no longer an atheist
Literally the funniest person I’ve seen in years keep up the fuckery you evil genius #fuckmilo #milothecunt #noticeme #loveme
Speaking as a Jew myself: I highly doubt Milo’s claimed Jewishness. I’ve never seen any legit evidence of his claims, or indeed any evidence that he even claimed it or had any alleged relation to Jewishness prior to his needing it as a convenient get-out-of-antisemitism-accusations-free card.
Malt liquor will make you feel like god.... Till you're praying to the porcelain one. LOL
He is a modern Jewster A narcissist.
.. penguin classics
I've been watching every single video of yours over the past few days. And I have to say. You're fucking amazing. Just absolutely fantastic
I bet 90% of Anita's haters have never watched any of her videos in full. She makes complains about games sure, but she also mentions games that do it better. If she hates games why is she bothering to mention games that do a better job of including female players in a better way?   Yes she is preachy, yes she gets things wrong and she she can act like a bit of an ass in the Vidcons but she also has a ton of haters just wanting her to go away and thinking there is a massive conspiracy between Anita and various websites that don't treat her like absolute shit.
I mean, you said it at the end jokingly, but you legitimately are a perfect synthesis of the moral and aesthetic in how you run your channel, that was my first thought upon watching your videos, well that and wondering if you were consciously trying to take harry plinkett style humour and apply it to social issues instead of movies.
"An aesthy without morality is actually a bad aesthy." Amen, sister! You make our homeland look better, and that's something to be proud of.
FUCK YOU FUCK YOU FUCK YOU. You are kind of young 21 century Lana Wachowski, you so amazing, you so smart, you so ok with yourself.  I'm so happy you exist.
King Cobra has a wonderful skunky aroma.
I love your channel, so glad I found it!
This is fucking perfect.
Anita Sarkeesian's 'points' are often so blatantly dishonest or cherry-picked (or rather, her immediate affective response regardless of context is legitimized), her brain is so goobered with watered-down School of Resentment criticism that she claims is 'bog-standard' for media and the only way or logical conclusion of 'treating games as art'.  Is this patronizing vision the best you can manage for someone who hates her 'subculturally'? It is simply a clash of paradigms, a normier/nerd intellectual paradigm with a watered-down and badly done shitty version even of the academic feminist intellectual paradigm that does not recognize any possible opposition to itself other than being morally compromised.  The sheer disdain and disgust she and her followers had for everyone else who was not made feel good by her 'exposure of sexism' is a tragedy, really, because it is the story of unselfaware mediocrely realized elements of modern US campus feminist theory clashing with a wealth of information she tried to map on a ridiculous simplistic schema, to these people's chagrin. Especially given she never posed alternatives to the angle of interpretation or meaning ascribed to what she showed, and the misleading and out-of-context way in which she presented it.  She recieved actual harassment in response to her videos in addition to the essentially faked, true, but she always had plenty of support from without, and some or other amount of people experienced a reaction due to their misogyny.   You exempt her twitter account from criticism, it seems, unlike Milo's https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Bi7c6JZLSa0 https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BQtaXVzWVAo
I call him "Oscar Vile".
O.K. I like you a lot, but leave Nietzsche alone
Hey can someone tell me the names of the gay comedians she contrasts with Milo?? Interested in learning more about them, and couldn’t really pick up their names.
You rock. Anti SJWs, beware
"So you might wanna grab your fedora." I love this video; so necessary. I know I'm late to the party here, but thanks for everything, Contra <3
Why does this guy have to dress up as a woman in every video and virtue signal?
Get down on that Queen Cobra, mamma! I'm catching a buzz just watching you drink it. P. S. I haven't had a drink in almost 8 years.
Y is this channel my fav
😂😂😂😂😂😂😂
well... you drink too much wen you say that you are better that nietzche :/
About anita sarkeesian I don’t get that games make people sexist are there games that sexually people yes. But if you use that argument (its see/done in games) what about violence I’ve Killed tonsmore people in games then see/hear sexism  in video games. If you think that games do cause violence as well correct me if I’m wrong but haven’t there been lots of studies show that wrong. And if they don’t cause violence but they do for sexism why one but not the other.  while is only a case study all my friends play games and while some I think are a bit sexist I don’t see that in most both male and female gamers.
An excellent video as always, I often think of people like Jon Stewart or Steven Colbert (among others) when I think of liberals more willing to laugh as well as critique.  For perspective, my main problem with Ms.Sarkeesian is also presentation. The topics discussed in her videos are necessary if Games and perhaps the people that play them are to ever grow. However, the videos I watched(and it's been a while) contained many instances of conjecture around things in the game that were purely coincidental. An example would be footage used from watch_dogs to illustrate how women are "regarded as dolls"  and "cease to exist as they have no significance." In reality we have an in game model using the same "rag-doll physics" as any other NPC and then an issue with those physics despawning the model to prevent the game from crashing. I have to wonder if this misconception is presented as humor or to deliberately mislead people.  The second issue and perhaps the bigger one, is that she presents her videos in an academic format but provides (at the time I watched at least) no citation for the videos used to demonstrate her points. This, after it's drilled into us in academia that people should always receive proper credit for their contributions to any project. It feels highly unprofessional to say the least.   It stops there though, I learned from the first few videos that I wasn't going to gain insight into ideas presented and would only find my self in the comments(which were turned off at some point?) bitterly debating the presentation and hearsay, so I moved on to other outlets for feminism.
you are the chosen one.  i personally resort to the classic "its not my job to educate you" trope because, i lack the education, language, and temperment needed to actually engage alt-right/gamer/rich kid/pretty boy/white guys   you and three arrows are my new favorite channels. more anti-anti-SJW plz
who is the person who said "cruel, capricious, dark"
It's genuinely one of the most thought provoking and articulate channel I've come across You've called him out  He's an act with little substace  Thank you for making videos
Meon gott! You ARE the chosen one! I believe in you
People read to much into Milo in a bid to excuse him . He's a right wing turd-jockey . Sometimes no huge analysis is needed .
You're hilarious.  But let's face it, so is Milo.
Everything that happened to him couldn't have happened to a more ideal candidate.
If he could keep from speaking I would happy to watch the Milo train wreak. His overbearing behavior getting more out of control as he hopes no one will notice him turn into an increasingly pudgy boy chasing old queen with bad skin.
Don't you know my Son that Pokemon are evil! This is how your mother's soul is both taken and redeemed.
God Died So James Joyce Will Take Frederick Nietzsche's Cough!
Omg ur a queer guy in drag
Jesus christ you need to debate Jordan Peterson.
I love you so much.
Aw come on, he IS funny. And fabulous and glamorous. I don't agree with him though. Well on some things I do. And I DO think that feminist really want to bam all humor that seems offensive to them, while I also think that humor HAS to be at least a little offensive. But hey... whatever
>dressing like he made his first $1k 12 minutes ago like if owned
This video is so meta by explaining why I like your videos so much.  You hit every video out of the park.
3:56 *cough cough* DRAGON AGE: ORIGINS!  In all seriousness that is extremely on point on how I feel about her.
Ahhh, have had some good times with the cobra
If only there was a 1000 likes button.
I quite left wing and I do enjoy watching Milo. I agree with him almoast never but yet he only makes me laugh, it doesn't ruffle my feathers. Anita however absolutely does. And I think you may have nailed exactly why. I certainly find more agreement with Anita than Milo, yet watching him has never made me irritated and the little I watch of Anita always does. When Milo makes the occational good point I think "look at that I actually agree with the little twat on something". Whereas on the occation which I disagree with some change Anita demands our morals dictate we must do I think "Please Anita go away before you suck the world so empty of any fun or joy that along with the men the women too will want to collectively hang themselves".
i feel sad that it took me this long to watch this video. july 2016 eh? i think that was the peak of my Leafyishere phase xD LITERALLY. hashtag nochin. but yeah, Natalie, you ARE the chosen one <3
Does anyone here actualky think it's just random that the fifty shades trilogy book is facing the camera?
Liked for the sedaris mention perfectly fitted in the argument
New to your channel.Fucking love your shit
I have to agree with your final statement, but now I have a question. How long did it _really_ take to make the universe?
The big problem with Anita really is that she actually doesn't really raise good points. At times she outright lies about games but even then a lot of her points really could be described as her simply reading way too much into something, and generally something either very small or even something that's simply not there, hoping to find something because it's her personal ideology; kind of like how a conspiracy theorist can transform every mass shooting into a fake or a false flag attack by the build-a-bear group to take away everyone's guns.  Add on to that almost immediately she was given a lot of validation by the media who successfully helped her try to frame every bit of criticism towards her as angry misogynist trolls living in their mom's basement trying desperately to keep women out of games because of their own weird baggage.  Plus her personal brand of feminism involves deep adversion to violence as toxic masculinity and it's very sex negative. She almost seems to frame it from a form of misandry that people who enjoy violent video games are embracing the worst aspects of masculinity; but could you imagine if some dude-bro neck beard brust onto the scene and said he'd loved young adult romance novels but also all of them are deeply problematic because they embrace a very negative femininity where women just see men as tools to be seduced so that she can latch on to their lives and harvest them for emotional validation and money, fame, popularity, or stuff like that?  That's also another thing she did, lied about being a gamer to garner fake gamer rep so it didn't seem like she was some hokey up her own ass feminist intellectual critiquing a culture she didn't understand in the slightest while claiming to have a deep knowledge of it from her imposed framing. There's a picture of her we've all probably seen posing and smiling next to a giant stack of Xbox games but a lot of people act like you're totally absurd act like she, let alone any woman, but considering she said basically "I hate games, who wants to play a game where you kill and there's icky gore and it's just gross" back before she was thrust into the mainstream, but suddenly once it was convenient for her she was saying she's loved and enjoyed games since she was a kid.  I think all of that WAY overshadows any actual misogyny, or at the very least I'd consider it a far more probable cause of outrage unless someone has proof to the contrary.
Ha, it had the creepiest music ever made at the end, the pokemon song.
Welcome to low-key knowing you're literally God.
I don’t like Milo for most of his actual talking points, but I like Milo for opening the door for conservatives to feel like they can speak against the relevance of social issues with less fear of being labeled ‘racist’ or ‘sexist’ etc.
Great commentar, but Fifty Shades standing on the shelf directly above Lolita is arguably the best part of this video
I needed this kind of content.  Thank you 🙂
While I think have style and personality is great, I don't think it's always necessary. As in, I think Sarkeesian is trying to talk about the subject objectively. And while that can be dry, it's necessary at times to try to talk about a subject without being emotional and keeping it focused. At the same time, I love critique that can laugh at itself and partly be entertaining as well. But I think there's room for both. I appreciate how Sarkeesian tries to keep things straightforward.
If you're to dominated by the aesthetic, you become french.
You have no room to talk about how someone dresses.
Attacking Milo? You xenophobic homophobic scum.
If you are need to be a good mix between moral and aesthetic than I’m sorry sir you are not.
I like your biting wit. Keep it up!
Damn - this was good! I like your moxie, and your Golden One vid had me in tears laughing :D
You are so fucking funny, i love you
Seriously? The problem with Anita Sarkeesian is that her points fall flat. She is a demagogue who doesn't know what she is saying or the consequences of what she is saying. Her arguments are actually disingenuous and misleading, muddying the issue and making it worse, not better. She is much like the alt-right in that way, just on the other side of the fringe. The regressive left does exist, and for some reason the media likes this polarization (ratings) and have chosen Sarkeesian to be a poster girl for... well for what? Idiocity? Mediocrity at best. Attention economy I guess. She brings ratings. She appears to be an expert but isn't at all. Her work is shoddy. She should just not belong to the elite. She is an impostor, damaging to our culture. To me she is not moral at all, but amoral. The very opposite of moral.
I'm so in love with you, Contra
I also mostly agree with the content of what Anita Sarkeesian has to say. The only beef I have with her is that she lied about being a gamer in order to gain initial credibility. That being said, the whole gamergate reaction against her was fucking disgusting.
I love you so much you're my spirit animal
Ya know... there was a HUGE investment and concerted effort made by a couple billionaire brothers to infiltrate campuses with the objective of breaking the liberal hold on access to young people (formerly called education).   They started setting up Young Americas Foundations and flooding campuses with propaganda.  To which many students, being away from home for the first time in their lives and being famously still very "young" - predictably overreacted.   It's called provoking a response.     It has all been a setup.  And until ContraPoints, we have been playing into their hands perfectly.  Thank God for ContraPoints.
Do you, like, have an alcoholism problem?
I've been watching videos from the skeptic and anti skeptic and SJW and SJW sides and the one thing you all say is that no one is critizing your opponent while you're the center of everyone's unfair hate. I'm getting sick of ALL this bitching from a bunch of fucking nerds that are really the SAME FUCKING THING.
LEISURE SUIT LARRY!!!!!
The most valuable person in the world is a turncoat.  Enjoy it while it la-- It's already over?   Aw, poor Milo.
More videos made while robotripping please
That burp tho
The problem with Milo is that Milo is a sociopath. How else can a gay Jew ally himself with a side that if it ever got power would shove him into the oven after cutting off his nuts? His extreme sociopathic confidence permits him to believe this could never happen and he just loves how the Alt Right gives him a platform to abuse others and cause outrage. As for the Alt Right, well we know they are not above using useful stooges like Milo to fool people about who they really are.   “I have never been offended. I don’t know what it means. It’s not that I disagree with it. I don’t understand it. I’ve never had that feeling… I have a dark, ADD, Asp-y [Asperger’s syndrome] brain. I’m totally autistic or sociopathic. I guess I’m both.”  - Milo Yiannopoulos
6:58 clever analogy but I've always had a great time with it, personally
George Carlin
You're not a better philosopher than Nietzsche. But you are more fun, and that's probably a better thing to be, in terms of the amount of actual good one might do. I'm not a better philosopher than Nietzsche, either, in fact, I'm barely a philosopher at all. My prose is only a little less tortured than Kant or Hegel, my ideas can't escape a fairly narrow analysis of the term "significance," and my online "presence" consists entirely of making comments on the videos of people who are much better at being entertaining and engaging than I am. So buck up. Your stuff is good, and it does some good. If a confirmed mediocrity like me can be happy, a fabulosa with brains and talent has every chance of landing on the plus side of the human ledger, and having a good time doing it.
I don't loathe Anita, but I do dislike her. Mostly for her fundamental dishonesty.
Dresses like he made his first $1000 12 minutes ago! Lolz This channel is too good. Where have you been all my life? Oh yeah, that's right. I wasn't ready for you.
I think Anita is smokin’.
6:18-6:25 In other words you turn into me.
Anita is full of shit. She almost has a point except her examples are so easily debunked she comes off as a satirist without the humor.
Is that the God Mars on the top left shelf there?
I think you need to combine the sentiments of feminists like Anita Sarkeesian with their compulsion to influence policy in all sectors possible: It's not just nagging moralism.
Wonderful! I love these insights, this lovely style, I also love King Cobra Malt now and again.
I adore your ContraPoints channel.
Omg I love you.
Oh, this came out on my birthday :3
You often universalize and abstract complex issues (talking as if there is one audience which needs one thing), but I think you are at your best in this video. Funny, interesting, and some apt critique without being heavy handed. Still, let's say there are about 10 main personality types, then each one will need to hear different types of argumentation and emotional expression to change their mind. You should analyze popular public personas with the personality of their audience as this is why they are popular (they make up some ideal projection of their audience).
I really dislike Anita. Not just because her eyebrows are wack, but that she doesn't play these games but criticises it's surface level. I'd say Bayonetta is a great feminist character, she's strong and embraces her sexuality yet if you only look at her surface level of course she just looks like another objectified female video game character.  If she played through these games, criticised more than just surface level attributes and still had her opinions I could respect them a lot more because they're more developed.
Why do you have 50 shades prominently displayed in your library? I doubt it's a nod to kinksters since you probably know we hate it. And I doubt it's for shock value since your style isn't vanilla enough for something that bland to be shocking. So I'm confused.
You realy put him down in hi´s shoes here, dawn right done to be honest.
Boring
The best part of Mllo's act was his audience. Triggering idiots who enjoy heckling turned out to be a pretry good career move.
Except an atheist can’t possibly be moral by their own definition. Morality requires absolute morality, which an atheist can’t portend. So...sorry, because you’re an atheist, you cannot be a moral authority. You’ve abandoned that right. You can only serve your own subjective morality.
I think you think Anita is smarter than she is.  She is as shallow as it gets. Sometimes modern art is just a random splash of colors.
Your critizism of Sarkessians moralizing dullness does echo one of the most classic gender stereoptypes: Womens lack of a sence of comedy. Something you youself doesn't lack.
How do you down a king cobra and still making sense by the end of the video? I love your stuff! 40's and Nietzsche was how I  spent most of my youth.
Ahh...the fourth Brandenburg concerto. Excellent choice.
Fun Fact: This is the first result that pops up when you look up “Anita Sarkeesian ASMR.”
Please marry me
Whose skull is the mother Marowak wearing???
Milo is basically a conservative Bill Maher.
This reminds me of when Hitchens said "compared to men, women just aren't funny".   At first that bothered me (a group of women joking together is HILARIOUS!) but then I figured it out.  It's just that it's very hard for women to be funny with men around.  Men don't like being the butt of women's jokes, or hearing that a lot of our humor is about how hard it is to deal with men.  Men don't like telling "hilarious" jokes about raping, dominating, or humiliating women and having women not laugh.  So they blame us for having "no sense of humor".    Anyway, good on you for being a man who uses his powers of gender for good.  You try to look at femininity from within and therefore don't try to hurt those of us who live it.  I like that.
King Cobra...does it still come in plastic bottles?
>contra isn't going to win me over  >>>contra wins me over
Something about the way you said "mommy" there at the end reminded me of Xavier Renegade Angel. Come to think of, the drugs, the philosophy - you in general just remind me of that show. In a good way.
Two shots... Of vadka
If you write Milo off as a troll, he will come back and bite you in the ass. With STYLE!
There nothing too pretentious to say in a youtube video! And I don't find the Dionysian and Apollonian diptych pretentious. Well, I suppose it's a bit pretentious, but pretentiousness is good. And anyway, Nietzsche was a lousy philosopher but he did appreciate good style.
so weird watching ur old videos where ur like 'yes i am a Cis Male of course pfft' honestly mood,,, so glad i literally have no photos or videos of me shortly before i came out
Okay why are you drinking king cobra? I'm black and I find that stuff to be quite disgusting
Bacchus approves. Apollo assents.
Well, in all fairness of the dry, boring moralists like myself, aesthetics are necessary to live life fully, but moral is necessary for not getting destroyed as a species.  And mind, I don't consider myself a "moralist" actually because I don't believe in good or evil, and I think creativity is what keeps us from becoming stagnant intellectually - as in, literally knowledge is drawn from creativity, not just art. However, I defend with callous (?) passion the upholding of the social contract, out of fear that the people acting like assholes to another people will wind up destroying us all and themselves, because they are being stupid. And I'm not trying to be funny here.
Thank God Milo isn't relevant anymore
My main "quibble" with anita is, that she neglects male stereotyping, bodynormalizing, etc. Think unachievable steroid-bodies, men as disposable soldiers and men as unemotional simpletons for example.
You really need better taste in smut, Contra, Fifty Shades is absolute garbage.
Milo is as Jewish as Hitler and has similar racial politics.
I rather dislike Anita... But I like you, so does that make up for it?
Is that Nabokov's Lectures in Literature on your shelf? And Herzog?
her pronounciation of "raison d'aitre" seemed pretty on point to me. while i'm not a native french speaker, i had like 9 years of french in school, so idk.
> Milo fans complained about "Orwellian censorship"  LOL, Twitter isn't part of the United States government, you idiots.
You are my new god; all praise Contrapoints.
Damn, hardest own on Nietzsche I've ever seen on a video
>stares into the background Nice! Foucault books!
I for one don't like Anita Sarkeesian because she profits off of lying about games she doesn't know much about (she ranted about how there was a prostitute in Assassin's Creed 2 without realizing that the character was a real person who was a real prostitute) and it even hurts feminism in general because she's inventing problems where there are none and representing feminism as a solution for a problem that you have to make up.   Also, please for the love of God don't use Leisure Suit Larry as a way to say games are sexist, it's an outlier in terms of sexism in gaming.
I think milo reminds me of patrick bateman in American psycho
Is he really friends with Ann Coulter? Because I bet she thinks he's going to hell
I just Love a gem that drinks king cobra . You go squirrel friend!!! Love your videos!!
YAAASS chosen one! Lead us with your fabulous moral humor!
I had quietly made the connection a few videos back that you were either a more humane Milo or a more entertaining Anita but I didn't want to leave a comment saying as much because I couldn't figure out how to explain it in a way that didn't sound at least vaguely insulting.  For the record, I'm not a huge fan of either of those people but you are my fucking hero.
"Drunkenness... and robotripping"
ugh. fuck Milo and his pseudo-moralism
To be fair, one reason Anita Sarkeesian's "critic" persona is so boring and strait-laced is because she knows that anything she says _will_ be maliciously taken out of context and then endlessly repeated by idiots who hate her guts. Jokes and irony are especially susceptible to this, so she's learned to avoid them. Her older videos contain some attempts at humour, while newer ones generally don't.
Confirmed Chosen One
The a e s t h e t i c here is merely something used by bullshitters to distract people from their bullshit. This is why Milo uses it, why it's so common in the Alt-Right and, indeed, why you use it. Many leftists and feminists who don't use this a e s t h e t i c are easily caught out on their bullshit because all they offer you is their raw ideas and those ideas are easily deconstructed.
Milo is a grubby con man who learned he could make easy money being outrageous so is milking it for as long as he can before (probably) getting a cosy position in his father's company (if his father has a successful business)
The terms he was avoiding were "Apollonian and Dionysian." Just in case anybody cares.
A E S T H E T I C
Pssss   Nobody cares
Anita's videos were ridiculous, she's a hack who conned gullible people out of $1000s!
Social justice is oppressive and ideologically regressive. Milo is a genius.
god i love you
I like your videos.   Would smash
Appolo and Dionysus are rolling in their graves. "I'm better than Nietzche" - obvious troll is obvious. Liking Anita: not even once.
I had the misfortune of meeting him (worked with the agency who represented him as his book deal collapsed). Shared an elevator with him, and he is as garbage a human being as he appears to be.
Robotripping ftw
I respect your diss on Milo, but Anita is a fucking n00b
The Hero of the new age was born. Conquer chaos, bring back the fire, die for our sins and shit. Good luck. Just glad I don’t have to do it.
Instantly like for king cobra lmao. #feels
Oh man, this is before he talked about fucking children
#britishvillainstrope
framed pic of anita, fifty shades of grey. the only thing that could pull that room together better is a skull.
So what you’re saying is, we should take psychedelic drugs in a Dave and Busters
haha "borderline" racist  nah  racist
Alcibiades
How in the holy fuck can you drink malt liquor like that....?  Edit:  APOLLONIAN AND DYONESIAN!!#!$@%#$&^R*UIDJTGFHJN DCV
or the fact that Anita sarkeezian is a fucking hypocrite? and honestly Anita is ugly on the outside, and on the inside.
Goddamn contra is good
I didn't think her pronunciation was that bad though. A lot less anglicised than the way most people would say it. Also it pretty much does mean reason for existence
What were those Nietzsche terms: Dionysian (aesthetic) and Apollonian (moral)?  Sorry you hate Nietzsche.
Milo forces feminists to check their fucking privilege, its glorious.
"Drunkenness and Robotripping" I'm dying lmfao
I don't totally agree with you but mi lo doesn't give a shit about you're feelings and that's what I respect but you just seem to have a more funny dark twisted sense of humor that I shouldn't bitch about otherwise I would be a hypocrite I don't agree with you but it's your freedom of speech not mine
I prefer Old English to the King Cobra, personally.
Cheers to 40oz malt liquor!
Niemand hat je so gut ausgedrückt was mich an Anita Sarkeesian stört - perfekt
Aesthetic 美的  ?
milo “histrionic personality disorder” yiannopoulos
Can anyone tell me the names of the comedians Contra mentioned? It is too fast, so I've got trouble understanding
i find it weird that it took for pedophilia for people to disavow him after the anti sjw youtubers where warned about him by their own kind.  like so many videos where other anti-sjw youtubers said hey he is not the guy *cough secular talk cough*. so many
DORIAN GREY!!!! YAAAAAAAAAAAAS BITCH.
.... you might singlehandedly redeem youtube.....tell me MOAAAAAR. xoxoxo
Dressing like he made his first 1000 dollars 12 mins ago.  That has to be the best burn I have heard.
*whomst
Contra I think you bring a bit of glitz and glamor to SocJus
the problem with anita and others is not their arguments but more of the generalizing of their oppositions, which in Anita's case is she sais that gamers are misogynistic. which is true for some but not for others. also most of her arguments fall flat and are based around the victimizing of women or the objectivefacation argument and applies it as sexism while denying the same thing happens to men. also the objectivefacation argument falls flat on its face no matter if it is about men or women and when ya try to argue this in the realms of fantasy ya just come off as to picky. the real problem with anita is she does not understand the real geek culture and only sees the trolls and is having an effect of changing the entire geek culture into what she wants it to be wjich is SJW rederic.
Contra and milo have much more in common then personna politics.  Both are tying themselves to political extremes for Media Sake  But both are much more centrist then they want you or even themselves to believe.
Like him or hate him Milo is doing the left a world of good.  Contra knows it much more then hes willing to let it be known. Jealousy??Envy??Patrion Pesos??
You chug malt liquor like a fucking zer.
Is that Fifty Shades Of Gray I see on his bookshelf?
Dude you are mentally ill alcoholic get help
*Mmm, snakey*
While i agree on your comments on Milo , would you kindly remove that ugly fraud picture on the background . ty
5:34 Is Anita Sarkeesian in "the right side of politics and morality"? Ya serious? Even when she uses demonstrably false and misleading information to support her viewpoint and has zero tolerance (and I mean zero tolerance) towards criticism?  At least Milo's vice is his liking for provoking anger in his rivals, but he doesn't use fake information to backup his ideas and apparently sweats out all criticism in a very jovial manner, which in my opinion, puts him way higher over Anita in the moral scale.
Wow. You are killing it.
hehe ContraPoints, as I'm sure you've already worked out I'm not on your side of the fence and I disagree with many of the things you say, however I definately give you credit for interesting content. You are the only SJW youtuber I have ever managed to sit through a full video! Anyway the Patriarchy calls so I better get back to work
I hate Anita, not because I think shes trying to 'spoil my games' I despise Anita because I see her as a fear saleswoman and a charlatan. Anita sarcasian literally makes a career out of spreading fear and victim mentality. I feel that Anita is responsible for a lot of soft headed young ladies leaving college as hate filled depressives with an inate fear and suspicion of all men. The reason why you take issue with the "games she chooses to demonstrate her points" is because on any manner of closer examination it becomes unignorably obvious that her arguements are devoid of merit. Feminism of the brand that Anita is selling has seen women become incresingly unhappy and comes part and parcel with a greatly increased suicide rate.... This victimhood narrative which is making people like Anita rich comes at the expense of society as a whole and it becomes a downward spiral and begins to divide society as a whole, making everyone miserable.
hate the game not the player
That's you sweetie
👏🏻👏🏻very good
"The moral and the A E S T H E T I C"
I love your bookshelf.
Thank god for Contrapoints!
Until this video I had no idea Milo was English
Does anyone know what Nietzsche's terms were exactly and which of his books he wrote about this?
There's a guy from my country which is basically the representation of hyper masculinity and bias in a person. He has a very famous youtube channel. Sadly, it's in spanish so I'm guessing it's pointless to suggest you check it out but whatever, his name is John Acquaviva
How was the hangover
I love every second of this video. <3
I don't agree with Milo most of the time, but I love him because he's really funny and I like his anti-censorship policies.
He's FUCKING DORIAN GREY
I'm gonna be honest I'm not sjw OE anti sjw though I probably consume both content . But Milo is definition of Professional Troll and everyone losing their shit every time he says shit. Like I'm not Milo fan or right wing but he works media like he knows what he's doing  I don't like Anita she seems bitchy at worst and unwilling to discuss shit and at best meh also her videos are kinda boring
Did I just see a sane SJW? Am I in heaven?
The "moral" and "aesthetic" sort of reminds me of the "beauty," "truth," "goodness," principles except it just rolls truth and goodness together.   Anyway... I'm really appreciative of your videos. I was thinking of making some to say some of the things I wanted to say in response to all this, but you're already doing it, and much better than I could... so I'll probably just Patreon you and call it a day. :D
Was the fact that Fifty Shades of Grey was the most prominently displayed book on the shelf intentional or no? Just asking out of curiosity.
You are the answer to the the left's (I am a leftest) inability to bring dark and pithy comedy to their arguments.  I am a leftist who has become really interested in the recent debates.  What you offer is exactly what I took away from all of it.    ...Thaaat we could be funny and punchy, but instead it's like we are fulfilling the quota of whininess that is held against us.  Yes there is a place for daily vlogs about being upset re: XY and Z.  But sometimes I just want to watch a funny, insightful, well researched video that doesn't make me think... Fuck we are overly sensitive or we are always trying to teach people things like they are 3.  And sometimes they need it, but those people just stop listening because they hear teaching mode.  Youtube (in this way) isn't a good reflection of leftests.  Because it becomes super easy for a leftest to make two channels, and find things to share and be upset about on their vlog channel EVERY DAY, as that is apart of their income.  I get it.  I just want to see more balance.    WE NEEDED YOU AND THANK GOODNESS YOU ARE HERE.  I wish more YouTubers would take on this role.
''Confess!''' I confess! Lmao
I'm waiting for you to do some videos on the arguments for God's existence. You studied philosophy, it's your duty!!!!!!!!!!!
U need a TV show
How does academic get associated with the grifter Sarkeesian?
Academics are serious. The rest of the left is not so much so.
Love the picture of Saint Sarkeesian in the background <3
Humor isn't aesthetically pleasing to everyone. I don't make YouTube videos because I'd resent having to make obligatory jokes about furies, so the common troll would be swayed to hit the like button.
Though I understand the point you're making, I feel like what defines an appropriate balance of aesthetic and morality (excluding extremes) is how the argument as a whole is meant to facilitate discussion. Sometimes more academic videos like Anita's works because they're a little bland and unoffensive. Humor and style are dependent on tastes where, at least to me, it would be harder to achieve a similar baseline. For example, my conservative father isn't receptive to videos like yours or HBomberguy's, but he'll actually empathize with the points Anita makes in her videos. Even benign humor can feel threatening to people with opposing viewpoints. But then again I'm not very familiar at all with academic feminism outside the Tube of Yous so I could just be rambling on an unrelated tangent ahaha.
Please stop drinking and take care of yourself. You are too precious!
4:50 *NO FUN ALLOWED*
Old video but new for me. Do you give every fringe group the benefit of the doubt? Polite discourse with people that despise Anita will expose their arguments to be nothing more than, "quibbles about some of the games she chooses as examples." Yet that is typically enough to fill them with Vitriol whenever you mention Sarkeesian without adding "that bitch," in front of it. I find it difficult to empathize with a group that is so obviously based in misogyny. So this brings me back to my original point: do you give every group the benefit of the doubt, or are hateful groups deserving of their public contempt?
You get a sub because those last 90 seconds were fucking gold.
5:08  truth..
Yeah, Milo is a preening, narcissistic sociopath, but what's really important is telling prominent public women to smile more.  I'm glad we have a rational centrist like contrapoints to make legitimate criticism of both sides.
"I am God"   fucking LOL
congrats you've pissed of 90% of the internet
People who like Nietzsche are even shittier than people who like ayn rand
The Moral vs. Aesthetic dichotomy actually originated in the works of Kierkegaard (specifically his work "Either/Or").  CHECKMATE FEMINAZIS!
mimimi
The one YouTuber in all the land snarky enough to forge peace between the forces of alcohol and robitussin.
You might've been joking but I actually do believe you're the perfect balance between the two
Have you thought of colaberteting with TheTruePooka?
I love the complexity of your videos. you make some intelligent points, but also have a clever sense of humour and use video to good advantage. I suppose you could say you have both the aesthetic and moral stuff down. or whatever.
What is the weighty Penguin Classic on your bookshelf?
i find your videos like really problematic
I think i love you
I'm all for drunkenness and robotripping.
It sucks that Anita feels like she has to be serious in order to avoid some of the hate.
First point: Attacks on feminism, fat acceptance, black lives matter, etc. - Just like in those groups we see people attacking white people for no reason, men for no reason, fit people for no reason, we have someone like Milo attacking those movements overall (which I agree isnt good). These movements all evolve from the same point: "we are victims and you are oppressors" so they have much more authoiry than so called oppresors such as Milo. Want proof? Check first berkeley riot. Second point: Racist attack on Leslie Jones. - Why because she is black? Is it sexist also because she is a woman? You can make fun of Milo for the way he looks but he cant make fun of Leslie Jones saying that she looks like a Chimpanzee because thats racist. That by itself is racist Contra. Third point: You dont like his humor. - Who cares, we do. Fourth point: About Anita. - People like me hate her not because she critizices video games which is also something that I do all the time, we hate because she has lied, stolen content from youtube, focused on certain stereotypes whilst forgetting stereotypes such as 'men being punching bags and subjects of terrible forms of violence in videogames, etc.'. Apart from this she has not only criticized videogames but gamers themselves, which is unnacceptable. She is nothing but moral, she is a con artist.  If you guys dont want people like Milo, call on radical sjws bullshit
What is the source for 2:27?
ok but WHERE can I find that "it was cruel... capricious... dark" clip online?
Anita is very hot, I confess.
Damn homie, stop shakin up that hand cannon. Only thing worse than cheap beer is cheap flat beer!
Your characterization of Milo being all style and no substance was ironically fairly shallow. Love your work tho. It's an attempt at balance, with some self awareness of its own bias.
Just because he's a gay Jew doesn't mean he can be a dick I hate milo
i have to say though what's your asking of sarkisian is the equivalent of asking a woman to smile which is sexist tbh. some content is informative, some is entertaining. if something can be both then yay i guess? but she's not here to entertain.
on sarkeesan, we all do. a large number of us don't agree with her examples nor that some of the tropes are inherently sexist as it depends on context but she likes to lump us with anti sjws and right wing for some reason. her recent episode misleadingly uses npcs from resident evil series as women role being reduced to side kickes. RE, which had female sole main characters. *shrugs*
５：５１　ｉｓ　ｍｙ　ｆａｖｏｕｒｉｔｅ　ｐａｒｔ　ｏｆ　ｔｈｅ　ｖｉｄｅｏ．
Taking psychedelics at D&B. Lolz
moral and aesthetic....oral and ass? I couldn't resist.
PLUS ONE FOR VAPORWAVE
Its funny, the usual criticisms I see thrown at Anita are "she stole donated money" and "she hates gamers". Where as the Milo guy, didn't he run off with over 100,000 dollars? and didn't he also bash gamers for being obese basement dwellers? Yet he didn't get nearly as much fire as Anita did for her pretty vanilla talking points.
Yes Anita is hot as balls.
your like everyone's alcoholic aunt I'm all about that
Of course it's okay to criticise video games but don't misrepresent them. That's the problem with Sarkeesian. She does it constantly.
God, give us back Freddie Mercury and David Bowie. You took the wrong LGBT man from us.
I don't hate Anita or Milo. I agree and disagree with both of them on certain subjects. And I, of course, love you, Contra! 😜
Milo is an amazing debater, outgoing, works with real facts, and his sense of humor brings attention to issues.
I can't tell you how happy I was to see Milo eventually crash and burn under the weight of shit he was dumb enough to put out there and thought would never come back to haunt him.
There are plenty of funny feminist artists , though. We need more funny feminist speakers who are prominent though.
Aaaand what about Anita scaming people for money?
Man, I don't agree with the majority of your points, and Blaire killed you at that debate, but you're damn funny and  I think I'm in love 
Your nuance is admirable.
I like the Oscar Wilde reference :)
Contrapoints, even though I disagree with you on certain things, but I seriously respect you.  I feel many skeptic channels are going too right wing or too retarded for my tastes (i.e. Naked Ape, Paul Joseph Watson, Sargon Of Akad, Amazing Atheist etc) and many of which honestly just regurgitate/repeat the exact same things that the other 100+ skeptic channels have already said.   Even though I still enjoy some of the more balanced minded skeptic channels (i.e JaclynGlenn, Roaming Millenial, Phillip Defranco, Blaire White, OfficialGATG, etc) but seeing a more left sided skeptic channel who doesnt think/act like Laci Green or Franchesca Ramsay, addresses criticisms of the left while providing good responses,  AND has a sense of humor is a breath of fresh air.  Keep on going ;)
"seduced by the brutal hilterian charm of of donald trump"  Well, at least you admit trump is charming
You were supposed to be the chosen one Anitaaaaaaa!!!!!!
I love you.
My friend pointed to watch this, I did. Every topic aside on the fact that Anita gets payed well to spread misinformation while Milo is not allowed to say anything anywhere because he spoke the truth - to a fault -, a society where men dress up as women to fit in with them for "feminism" is not one that sounds good. Never had issues with gays or lesbians, but this society is fucked.
I just love that eternal copy of 50 shades of grey on display in all your videos. So classy and intellectual.
Grab a few bottles and wax lyrical about your love of the bottle and Hitchens , that should be a hoot.
Love your videos, but screw your Nietzsche diss! Apollonian vs Dionysian FTW, bitches!
Clearly better than Nich'er... by advocating the Aristotelian mean. I'd like to be as funny as you and make a joke about being edgy, but that would be detrimental to simply agreeing with the substance of your message, as I understood it. An Irishman once told me, "its the way you tell 'em" which seems applicable; it does not matter if you are correct if your delivery alienates your audience.
Hey, Contra, you should have way more subscribers! Do you have a website or blog or something where I can get a better taste for your worldview?
Side note: I like you because you are actually fabulous and funny and contrarian~
You are so cool. Also thank you for openly being a drunkard.
So you're a man that wants to be a woman? I'll just call you a man, cuz you still are one no matter how hard you try.
Can you add the option to submit our own subtitles?. i think this video sums up perfectly some political problems in my country.
Honestly, as someone who recently completed a gender master's, academic feminists are some of the funniest people on the planet where they're not on the job, you know, writing dense theory papers.  True of many academics, really.  And feminist activists (not that there isn't overlap but the distinction is relevant) are already known for hilarious blog writing, even if there's something to be desired still on YouTube.  I'd love to see more riotous feminist YouTubers (especially more women), but I think it's fallacious to say that Anita's approach is less effective for lack of jokes or that she personally is responsible for expanding YouTube's feminist humour.  She's said herself that she had to stop being sarcastic because of the unbelievable levels of misrepresentation and hostility from humourless antifeminists (which, let's be real, might account for a lot of the YouTube gender imbalance), and there's an approachability, clarity, and actually a lack of accusative moralising in her content that makes it a good introduction for people "on the fence," as it were, or kids.  There's a place for that.  There's also a place for furry jokes, but it doesn't have to be the same place.
boom
All hail our lord and saviour, Contrapoints XD But seriously I am very happy that you make these videos.
6:42 ROFL IS THAT THE FUCKING PINBALL SOUND OMFG  HELP ME IM DYING.
I would have to disagree with the sentiment that academic feminism is joyless. I can imagine the difference has to do with the actual academic feminists, but in my experience academic feminism comes with the best parts of party culture (live and let live) whilst rejecting it's dark underbelly (date rape). My professors would regularly promote concerts and drag shows.
I have to deeply respect someone who can speak eloquently and form a salient argument and also take a 40 of malt liquor to the dome.
And I thought Riley J Dennis was bad......  I can imagine this guy and Riley and Onision having a giant anal orgy.
A dangerous aspect of going full moral is,that some people, including me, evolve a very dark and gory humor just to survive in our society. I was born disabled and have a high tendency to gain body mass. So for the first years, till i graduaded from school, i was a fat diasbled guy listening to metal and becoming darker and darker, same as my humor. Gues what my first thoughts about feminism was? I didnt experienced any privilege, i mean, i didnt notice them while i was bullied for what I am. It is just human to take things personal, so i was very anti-feminism, because of this privilege thing (and because the first thing u get in touch with is this non logical terf-bullshit xD) And just to notice: Iam still a metalhead because the metalcommunity, at least the metal community in europe, can be a very good safe space. No bullying about my weight or my disabilites, in fact, my scars became a postiv, very trve thing,what was  very uplifiting in my teen years ^^.  Today i have no problem with feminism any more, i would just considere to care more about disabled people, because a disability changes a lot, even if ur lower body isnt affected at all. I mean, it is not that easy to fit in the picture of strong, straight male who proctects and feeds everybody if u are disabled nad it is not very helpful if feminism just pushes u in this corner and tells u about your "male privilage" as if there is nothing that seperates u from the common society^^
Fifty Shades?
Dude, the vapourwave freaked the shit out of me. I even know this shit's name. That music gets me propper bent.
I'm getting really depressed because I discovered ContraPoints around 48 hours ago and I'm pretty sure I've now watched every video he's ever posted. It's a tough feeling.
You were not kidding. You drank that entire 40.
very nice video and very nice points. Thanks ! :D
He is a thousand times more talented than you will ever be AND he has ALREADY accomplished more than you will ever do by helping get THE GOD EMPEROR into the White House.  Stay Irrelevant.
J.Cole fan?
Yeah, Anita is conventionally attractive, which imo is part of the reason why the crazies have such a raging hate boner for her. She defies every negative stereotype about feminists that they use to write the movement off. (Conventionally attractive, no blue hair, conducts herself calmly.) It amplifies the anger.
Ouhhh but try to tell a (female) feminist that she needs a bit of sense of humour! Ouch  <3 you all
YES! BE OUR GOD!!!!!
Recall that Fifty Shades of Grey began as smutty fanfiction. As a long-time connoisseur of smutty fanfiction, I must inform you that it is not a good example of smutty fanfiction. Bad smut.
Had to watch video again given the days events
INSECURE HOMO,  YOU DRINK DAT ALCOHOL AND GETS THE ALCOHOL OR IT GETS THE HOSE AGAIN,  FUCKING FREAK.
why does only the aestetic get Asian characters?
Milo said he fucked adults at 14 being totally proud of it like " i waz the predator lolo derb"
I wouldn't have much against Anita if she would just encourage more females to just get into video game industries and make the kind of games they want to see. It is true that video games can have not have the best light for female characters but I hate how she glosses over the ones who do have more going for them then their looks, even if they use sex as a weapon (Bayonetta who was designed by a woman lol). I don't think people intrinsically have a problem with her talking about video games, I think the problem is that she's trying to force pre-existing developers to change what they like and cater to what Feminists want which goes against freedom of expression. Like I said, if the state of women bother these people so much, they should go to school, learn game design, open up a business or start a kickstarter/funding page and make a video game that will cater to what they want. Seeing how much money Anita got for her Feminist Frequency videos, it's totally possible.
I'd buy you a bottle of DXM anyday.
"Milo is not Oscar Wilde, he's Dorian Gray" – spot on, totally brilliant
Who is the first great gay humorist mentioned just before Dave Sedaris? I just don't hear it right (sorry, English isn't my first language).
I don't think I am as forgiving of Anita as you are. mostly because I object to the way she thinks media affects culture and society and to what degree. especially video games, I think that media affects different than a movie which is different than the news which is different than a book. I know I ranted a little but hope I made some kind of sense.
LOL
We just need to find Milo's painting and discover he's actually a 70 year old zombie
Clicking all the things
You're giving him too much credit I think. He's in it for the money, pure and simple.
Anita used to make jokes until the patriarchs got to her. She even made a video about it.
Then again, Milo helped out Brianna Wu as a trans woman. And ask any trans woman: being outed like that, with the insinuation that they're any less of a woman because they were born with a dick and balls, is a No. But then again, Ethan Ralph of the Ralph Retort was the first to report on it...
holy shit this channel is a fucking riot.
In all seriousness, it's been a while that I've been looking for a woman doing feminist videos that are funny. Can someone recommend me a few? I can only find men's videos that are funny and I don't believe that funny women's videos don't exist, more like they don't appear in recommended videos. There's Kevin Logan, Hbomberguy, AngryAussie, ContraPoints, Onision, but where are the funny female feminist YouTubers???? WHAT ABOUT THE WOMENZZZZZZ???
Subbed to you after watching destinys twitch stream
What is the name of the old gay comedian wearing the fedora?
On Conservative Catholic Homosexuals Satirists, how are you on Evelyn Waugh?
That's Miles Popodopolopolous to you, dahhhling.
you are pretty cool.
in terms of leftists/SJWs or whatever though, like we do produce a lot of content/memes and do have our own culture and sense of humour that's generally a lot more inventive than the likes of Milo. IT's still fairly out of the mainstream, but you see bits of it on large FB meme pages like Gangster Popeye, Cabbage Dog etc. and groups like Karl Marx's Dank Meme stash. A lot of trans & queer people put out a lot of good content and can be pretty "glamorous" in their own way, and there's a lot of interesting content in Muslim internet too, just like you have black twitter etc.  But because these groups are somewhat othered people don't really go down those paths or check out there stuff so it's easy for the image of a dour leftist/feminist/SJW vs edgy Puck-like figure in Milo to persist. We have a much longer history of provocation, too. It's sad. Right wingers don't tend to get Irony much at all. They tend to be pretty serious in all their shit.
I only have one question, but clearly it's the most important one of all: where did you get the Athena statue on the shelf from?
I totally agree!  I had a liberal fun killed pants half way on but you convinced me actually.  I'd never really thought of it like this.  That said I think that there is a lot of aesthi in pop feminism right now (in the forms of memes, art and literature, youtube personalities, etc: features like witches and make up artists, "boss bitches" and "nasty women", embrace the aesthetic side of the social movement.  This aesthetic seems to center on taking those negative things said about women and turning them around into positives.  ironically, it is sort of why people like Milo want to do, only it has a moral aspect as well), and it gets criticized, too, by being intentionally interpreted out of context and pointlessly railed against.  So then it takes it from both sides: first from the left, for not being moralistic enough, then from the right, for not being moralistic enough.  In fact, it's been the aesthi that has, arguably, been most attacked recently.  The railing against "PC"ness etc. began with the blossoming of POC, LGBT, and feminist media in the 90's, starting in academic spheres.  It was Toni Morrison and Maya Angelou and other scholars who challenged long unchallenged aesthetics which were the targets of the particular brand of criticism which has snow balled into today alt-right movement, when inclusion of minorities is perceived as exclusion of majorities, and where anything from a non-majority perspective is considered a ridiculous assault on reality.
Lindsay Ellis is an example of a feminist video-essayist who balances the moral and the aesthetic. She mixes her feminist analyses of movies with lots of sardonicism and dry humour, combined with drunken rants which rival ContraPoints for alcohol consumption.
YOU'RE THE AVATAR!
While Hbomberguy doesn't spend a lot of time explicitly supporting Social Justice, and spends most of his time making fun of antifeminists, he does so in an extremely humerous and entertaining way. While Garrett does a similar thing with reason, logic and argumentation for social justice causes.   I just started watching ContraPoints and I'm thoroughly confused about his appearance and style of video, and I'm okay with that, it's actually refreshing. He also does a great job at also looking into the faults of the left/social justice.
They like him because he makes it safe to express their latent tendencies.  He gets their latent dicks hard.   Fully half the comments under his videos seem to be of the "I'm not gay, but..." variety.    He's the gay jew version of the "black guy that gets it".  The one they can pat on the back and say, "I normally hate n-words, but you're okay in my book.  Still, keep your distance when the race war starts, I don't want to be the one that has to shoot you."    What I mean is, there is a (Trump voice) YUUUGE untapped market for being the gay/black/muslim/woman/etc. that's willing to say racist/homophobic/misogynist/generally shitty things about the group they happen to belong to.  Milo and his ilk are cashing in.  It's the same strategy as when totalitarian governments get a POW to make a video talking about how awful it is living in a place with plenty of food and very little government oppression. Except these pundits have no sense of integrity so they just require money and approval instead of genital torture to get them spewing propaganda.  You can't be forced to betray your principles if you never had any.  I wonder if there are any videos of Milo blinking out "I crave negative attention" in Morse code...
I knew this was going to be a good video when the baroque music and air horns opened the video.
More like provocaturd  \0.0/
Anita uses feminism as a tool to stir up drama and garner attention for herself. As a left-leaning queermo, I have a distaste for her, even if I don't disagree with her 100% of the time.
Not a fan of both, Anita angers me at one point soooooooooometime ago because she handpick scenes of a game that reinforces her accusations while gaming is my life. Latest one a friend link me still make me comments how much I dislike her but after I have time to chill out, yeahhh, wasn't as bad as the early ones.  Nowadays I just want to look on things in neutral grounds and trying to not get stressed over things I can't change. Not that her vids make me unable to play the games I love either.
I agree with most of what you said re: Anita. I kinda agree with a lot if not most of what she says, but GAWD is she boring to watch.
God I love your videos.
Ok i admit anita is hawt...
Milo is pure trash. It's hilarious that so many so called "skeptics" uncritically accept him because he supports their trash ideologies. 1,000s of people get banned from social media daily. But when some cult celebrity gets banned.
I never realised Pokemon was so dark.
We've come a long way from the hot dog suit
Milo Y. did NOT say anyting remotely racist towards Leslie..
Come on man why do you get to be the chosen one?
it's a trillby not a fedora. fedoras have wider brims
I love so much that your eyebrows don't move.
nice video. you're hot too!
Bearing and you are my two new favorite youtubers. I'm a switch, btw.
I try to keep balance of my aesthetics and morals, and I think I'm doing okay.
4:06 I have not kept up with Feminist Frequency over the years so maybe this is fixed, but I really hate its (what, it's a brand name, not a person) butchering of feminist arguments that should win by default.
50 shades of grey on the bookshelf??!
Yeah, I'll admit. Anita is a pretty attractive woman.
I actually like Anita's videos. Also i'm a moralist.
I just found your channel through the SkepticFeminist and I'm already in love.
I agree with this wayyyyy too much. I think a lot of spoken-out feminists could do well with the "aesthetic" mindset.  A.K.A., just having a nicer more nuanced/relatable presentation and a nicer cadence.  For instance, a lot of people who are against Trump don't post educating/enlightening/nice videos about why you shouldn't vote him, they get very emotional and angry and bent outta shape.  All this does is just harden the hearts of those already leaning to him and secure their vote for him even further.
yea.... but... anita is wrong in a great many of her videos regarding games.....  also keep being amazing and hot and intellectually brilliant, even if i don't agree with your points :D
I love the bookcase fifty shades plus infinite jest <3
Never heard of Milo- this is scary stuff
HAIL SITHI- ERM ANITA!
a e s t h e t i c
I believe Anita actually said she had to make her videos so on point and without humor or exaggeration because people would misrepresent that and nitpick it as her not knowing what she's talking about.
LOL I LOVE U
Eh people hate Anita because she pretty much lies about games she plays and is pretty much a obvious conwoman not because "misogyny" you do say some decent stuff but shit all over it with just claim critics are merely misogynistic, lol I mean Jordan Owen is a misogynist?  the guy is clearly a closet femmist that gets shit on by anti femmist foe being a white Knight lol.
how tf you only got 6k subs?
This shit is herlurious.  A+
Milo had sex with a friend of mine in an alleyway in Berlin while they were bought high as shit on MDMA. I can't prove that but Milo specifically asked my friend not to tell anyone, so we both tell everyone.
moar things to click@@
Dude, I find you very hot
Ironically, I disagree with basically everything ContraPoints says, however I am here because (somebody help me out I have no idea which pronoun to use) because ContraPoints is one of the single funniest people I have ever seen.  Ever.
God I love you.
Just noticed the Grey trilogy. *ow* LOL.
"Thinks he's Oscar Wilde, but he's actually Dorian Grey."  press f for respects
Ah, Bach!
drunkenness and robo-tripping hahaha
0:21 Come on.  Either really drink it or don't drink it at all.  You can fix the rest in post.
Well then since you seem somewhat more reasonable than the traditional Social Justice advocate that I've seen. I have a few things to say on the matter.   Anita throws in the "You can still the play the games" style comment as a really careless and apathetic disclaimer in her videos, but you can tell through the context of the video and the way she structures her arguments that in her mind it's only there for show and doesn't speak to her actual values in the slightest.  While the complaint from the gaming community you pointed out is one that exists, I'd argue the major complaint that they have is the way that she mischaracterizes the games and manipulates the results to prove her point. She usually intentionally leaves out entire elements of games because they contradict her points. For example she throws Zelda into the captured princess trope, but for anyone who's actually played the game they know that while in the earlier games that may have been the case from OOT moving forward she typically plays a prominent roll in the game and in some games like Wind Waker she fights alongside you in the final battle. A fair critique that doesn't misrepresent the facts is what gamers are asking for.   There is also the issue of how she got hundreds of thousands of dollars to make this project and promised it on a schedule, but despite it being standard youtube video material she's WAYYYYY behind that schedule and is now begging for money on a new project when she hasn't finished this project...it seems very unprofessional to me and any reasonable person would have doubts about her authenticity. Maybe I'm wrong, but if you're being honest you have to admit it does seem at least a bit sketchy, doesn't it?    ONWARD TO MILO!  I actually despise Milo. I thought he was reasonable back during GG, but as time has gone on his true colors have bled through and now I cannot stomach him in the slightest. He's an obnoxious troll who goes around messing with people for entertainment purposes and brings nothing of substance or value to the table, but will act like he's the greatest thinking mind of the century.   He also claims to hate identity politics, yet he'll never shut up about how gay he is and often times uses his identity as either a weapon or a method of defense when going after others. Honestly I consider him the right wing version of the SJW's because he's really no better and he's just as intellectually dishonest if not more so.     Side note:  You as a person are...interesting.   I can't quite pin down what I think of you yet, being as this is the second video of yours I've seen so far. You've got a really weird sense of humor that's sometimes jarring for me, however, you do make fair points and you seem reasonable as opposed to many other people around so I can let our slight differences in comedic taste pass I suppose.    *noticed the upload date on this video*  Oh well might have wasted my time on this...ah well Fuuuuuuuck it
You're an interesting change from the usual feminist/anti-feminist fare.  I agree with some of your observations, and disagree with others.  Good ground for discussion, and you're not some whiny teenage airhead.  Wish you the best of luck, and you get a thumbs up.
1:45 My only problem with him being banned is people do all sorts of worse shit, like doxing which is a blatant violation of twitter's rules, and are able to get away with it. I guess it could've also been because this example of trolling was much more high profile.
You know, I have no issue with what Anita says. I don't agree with her idea that games SHOULDN'T have the characters she doesn't like rather than saying there should be more games with DIFFERENT characters. But I fully stand by her right to say it. And the rifht of people to criticize her for it. I very rarely agreed with Milo. I did follow him and I didn't dislike him, but he did fully deserve his ban. For me he was more a... grounder.  Milo did something I dislike a lot... he attacked the person rather than the argument. Much like most those on the far left and the far right, he cared more about WHO you are rather than what you have to say. I have little respect for people that try to shut down an argument because the person speaking is male or female, gay or straight, black or white, religious or Atheist, fat or thin, conservative or liberal, feminist or not... and BOTH sides are guilty of doing this.  TL;DR: Attack the argument, not the person.
I'm a leftist feminist and I'm hilarious.
"Hitlarian charm" Could you elaborate?
I suddenly feel the need to listen to Lavender Town Theme on Youtube.
so many buzzwords and 0 facts. Good job moron.
Princess Milo Yiannopoulos?  Am I the only one who got that at 2:49? Also, Anita would be a Beedrill because #wheresanitasbees.
lol! I really dig the belching. However, your technique is somewhat lacking. In order to be more precise and achieve maximum damage, you must blow after your burp. Like belching right before you blow out birthday candles. This makes the recipient of your foul discharge know that it was intentionally aimed at them. As a bonus, you can't help but laugh at their discomfort as they bath in the rotting food gasses in shocked horror. Try it. You'll like it! =)
I gave you a like just for that amazing title.
I'm sorry, but I can't find your jealousy of Milo and that Sark woman interesting.
I don't agree with everything you say. but I love your videos! very entertaining and humorous, with a different perspective that isn't always heard, now that so many topics are hyper polarized.
I came here for the beef jpeg
I hate Milo and Anita.
Holy Monty Python!
You are a magnificent human being.
Anita herself has actually commented on why she doesn't use any humor. She says it's perceived as ignorance by her audience.
You are a smart and interesting guy Nick. Liked the ideas about the balance between the Aesthetic and the Moral - a great way of analyzing lots of issues and conflicts. And you look pretty in a dress - not something that I could get away with. 8-)
You know what I find funny?  Milo has probably done more to promote actual progressive attitudes in people than Anita ever has.  Stick that up your Bob Ross sounding, talentless hipster ass.
Are you familiar with Liana K videos "Feminism guide for gamers"? I think it did a better job introducing such concepts and also she seems to do have a beef with Anita.
Bro, where's your Faulkner?
Nailed it!
Sarkeesian's early videos were very moralistic and unnuanced. Her Dollhouse review comes to mind.  She's gradually gotten better however, incorporating critiques of her works.  It used to be that she'd release a video and I'd disagree with about 40-50% of it. Now it's only about 5%.  Though she still has one major problem which I've seen even her biggest fans complain about: thinking that whatever the lead character does is what we, the audience, are supposed to see as the correct choice.
Anita is rather a good pop culture critic. She raises a lot of valuable points about generic storylines and characters in media. It's when she attempts to convince the masses, without citation, of extraordinary feminist claims, like that video games will scar young boys with deep rooted misogyny, that the quality of her output lessens. What about you ContraPoints, do you enjoy her feminist message?
Every time I see your framed photo of Anita I need to cry-laugh. XD XD XD
I really think that Milo is doing some kind of bizarre performance art. I would say that dismissing him as a mere troll, as some people often do, gives him less credit than he deserves. I think a big part of his plan is to admonish the world for being too sensitive--with the underlying implication that over-sensitivity is harmful to the world, (which is an idea that I identify with personally) in a way similar to Lenny Bruce. However, unlike Bruce, Milo seems to think that the rules don't apply to him. Playing a character that is a scumbag is one thing, but being a dick in your everyday public life to any and everyone you meet is just not a thing I can get behind.
there are people with nuanced viewpoints on the internet? subbed
That's such a good point about balancing the moral and the aesthetic. I definitely react to the heavy emphasis on the moral within feminist communities sometimes by feeling like it's all just a lot. Really liking your content. How did you feel after that King Cobra?
The Chosen One... we've waited so long....
Milo barely offers intelligent commentary. What's so intelligent about making fun of fat people and feminists? How exactly is that productive?
Anita is a charlatan that's why gamers don't like her :(
Milo's humor is often enough self depricating though at least from what I've seen of him speaking.
I haven't seen you in a few years.  Are you transgender?  You look great.  Milo is a troll , he makes his living being a troll, no need to say more.
Have to admit. I'd been wondering when you'd get around to this. The whole, mentioning a criticism of internet social justice in passing on your way to more typical liberal targets of criticism... in no small part because I find myself in a similar position. Agreeing with the broad strokes, but cringing at the bastard style formed by haphazard application of academic jargon, a meme length attention span, and the knee jerk psycho-epidemiology of social networks run on views, likes, and shares.
I only discovered your videos a few days ago but after watching all of them you are now probably my favorite YouTuber. Your videos are such a great blend of hilarious and insightful. 10/10
ContraPoints, you offered a frame of reference:  appolonian and dyonisian; sorry, moral and aestethic. And you made a very good case against of an amoral persona (Milo), but you didn’t deliver an equally good critique of a moralistic persona (Anita). Maybe „because she’s on the righ side of the morals and history”. This „right side of the morals and history” sounds to me very much like saying that your moral intuition is the fucking shit and you give a nod to an authoritarian movement (the third wave feminism).
Honey, the reason I, and many other people have come to despise Anita Sarkeesian is because she has been proven to be intellectually dishonest.  It's not just her character that is flawed but the feminist school of thought from which she has derived her self-contradicting and pretentious criteria for what constitutes as a "problematic/sexist" element in video games.  Watch TL;DR's video of his adaptation of Anita's criticism applied to her own female protagonist concept.  She explicitly states in the first episode of Tropes versus Women that intended or unintended portrayals of what we perceive in media affects the way we behave towards others in real life.  She is using this scientifically unsubstantiated blanket statement as an inference that video game developers are encouraging the men who play their games to become hateful and/or distrustful of women.  It is no wonder that she gets all the deserved backlash from people who have seen right through her misguided attempts at trying to improve society by way of mistaking a cause for leading to an effect.  That being said, you have made a well-edited video and you look aesthetically pleasing in drag.  I wish I could say the same of your research on Anita Sarkeesian's critique.
you're right, you are god
0:55 http://www.breitbart.com/big-hollywood/2015/07/16/ive-been-playing-video-games-for-nearly-a-year-heres-what-ive-learned/
Oh, Contra, I simply cannot articulate the sheer depth of my love for your content. I totally agree with you about Anita though.         Especially that she's hot.
The beginning of this video is incredibly unladylike
a e s t h e t i c
It might not be the case with Anita but sometimes I think feminists don't have a sense of humour because they don't want the backlash from certain anti-feminists.   ie. The "You made a very clear joke that you believe all women should embrace their furry self, how DARE YOU, you can't force being a furry on all women, you just admitted feminism isn't about equality anymore" comments.  What I mean is many feminists want to distance themselves of the tragically ingrained stereotype of feminists being angry, overbearing and scary, that they act deliberately overly calm and simply explain things without humour to try and dispel the stereotype and appeal to people's intellect.  Kind of wearing "look I'm a calm feminist!" badge.  Though I do very much agree the moral-parading on the left has become very joyless and dull - like you can advocate for equality without being the President of Tumbleweeds at Boringville.  We need more fun over here.
There's a sprinkle of mr. plinkett in here and I enjoy this. Good stuff, fellow marylander!
5:52 I was listening to this music on repeat the other month, and now I can't remember what it's called. Could someone help? It's doing my bloody head in! :)
The thing is, you only consider milo to be morally lacking becasue you have a warped sense of morality. If you think Anita is the epitome of moral behavior you are sorely mistaken. Antia wants to constrain women into an imaginary mould that she has built up through her years of feminist indoctrination from taking the words of radical feminists like bell hooks without a single grain of salt.  She bases her morality on the imaginary construct of white supremacist, capitalist, patriarchy, and says that the only way to be moral is to oppose this imaginary structure. In reality, white supremacy is not a view held or advocated for by the vast majority of western society. In fact only a few fringe groups still hold beliefs that white people are inherently superior to other races, and whenever anyone advocates these views publicly, they are typically derided as the racists and bigots they are. Likewise for anyone who advocates any sort of male supremacy or "patriarchy". in fact the only element of this construct that can be shown to exist is capitalism, and true capitalism is not something that should be opposed. Capitalism is how you are able to make videos and how i can make comments. It is the basis for every right any of us has to own anything and work to become anything. Adam Smith explains it in it's entirety  in "the wealth of nations". read it and you will see how ignorant marx was.
Milo was not borderline racist. The worst thing he said to leslie jones was a mocking joke after she blocked him, comparing her to a black man who had rejected him. It is a well known fact that milo sleeps almost exclusively with black men, so If anything that comment was a comment on her attractiveness and not her race. Now of course it wasn't very nice of him but it is far from the accusations many people have thrown at him. Such as his being responsible for the harassing actions of other users. in reality this whole controversy was just the most expedient excuse twitter could find to kick him off their network. The fact that twitter has had a grudge against milo became readily apparent when they took away his verification badge, making it apparent that a tool originally meant to identify public individuals from their imposters has become a tool used for dealing out ideological wrist slaps toward people with the "wrong" opinions. If they wanted to punish milo for something he said they should have banned him then, but they couldn't do that becasue then they would have had to tell him what twitter rules he broke to evoke such a sentence, as they vaugely did when they eventually did ban him.  Twitter has claimed to be a free speech platform in the past, but it is now run by idealogues hellbent of thought policing anyone with dissident opinions.
4:27 "Occasionally"? She says it in almost every video!
Fantastic video!
I disagree with alot of your views but you actually have a grasp on reality and don't have blinkers on.. keep putting out content.
unsub'd
holy shit, I misclicked here and I'm glad I did. stellar video!
"a gay jew!!! you'd think he'd be guaranteed to be funny" Hahahahahaha
Another solid video from my man mommy Nick.   If I dare say so, your old videos were too moralist, without enough aesthetic. Seems you've finally struck the balance. ;)<3
I had just about given up on the atheist YouTube community. I felt like I couldn't really participate fully without risking harassment because I am a feminist and a progressive. You found a way around the stopping power of potential ridicule and cruelty. Not only that, you are fun to watch and produce good content! Bravo!
btw liver health?
Did they have burn units in the late 1800s?  Because little Freddie Nietzsche needs one! You could have done worse than King Cobra.  Still though, blaaahh.
Hbomb sent me here and I was not disappointed.  Excellent critiques!
Anita videos described as "academic" is a gross missrepresentation. She is anything but "moral".  I agree that Milo is overrated. Even when supporting GamerGate I stayed away from him. I constantly point out to more intelectual anti-feminist figures to you, people like Karen Straughan, Dr. Janice Fiamengo, even Christina Hoff Summers (though she labels herself a "feminist").  I would like a video of you actually adressing their points. Like... any of their points... other than youtube drama (like your video about the other Milo is about drama).
6:25 At first i thought that was Bellman, but i couldn't imagine why he would be known outside of the cold, dark north. I guess that hairdo was hip in the 1760s.
What the hell did I stumble into?
Who is that at 6:20?
very interesting video. I don't always agree with everything you say,  but I almost always can see where you are coming from and I enjoy your style in expressing it. I look forward to  next time!
Anita is not hot though
Anti SJWs have been getting away without any criticism whatsoever. Channels like yours are a breath of fresh air.
I wonder if there is space for people who don't hate Anita, don't mind her style, but don't agree with her principles, or her conclusions, or the evidence she presents for them.
I just watched every video you've made thus far, and this video encapsulates what I've been thinking: we need more of this! You and Hbomb have really hit this magic formula
I disagree with most of your opinions, I am a fan of Milo, but I like your style, humor and attitude, and I will admit you have some points, so I subscribed to you channel. I would like to hear your views about the, well... problematic parts of social justice, such as the pro-censorship stuff, opinion climate where people self censor at for example universities and in the media, the shouting down of controversial speakers such as Milo, and also the day to day man hate, such as famous feminists saying bluntly that they hate men or complaints about petty issues such as man spreading. Or the wage gap, no matter what one believes about it in general, not being presented accurately in public discourse. For example.  And I also like your drug liberalism.
Love it. Love it! You're videos are so needed. My only slight (not even) disagreement is that Anita seems to me to be a little less formal in her more recent videos. The "Lingerie is not Armor" video, her academic facade seems to be cracking and I can see the "Are you fucking serious?" side poking through. I hope it continues.   Keep up the great work! You looks lovely by the way. :)
Hey, chosen one (by whom?), what do you think of #BAUniC Building A Universe Competition/Collaboration/Challenge baunic.blogspot.com ? Beyond the genders and orientations of those passionate enough about the subject to pursue it, failing and improving on each permutation, or including such frivolous differences.
I really want to hate you, but can't. I know I should press the dislike, but couldn't. Your messing with my mind!!!
I oppose to the fact that I find Nykytyne attractive that way! This is twisting my mind I don't like it one bit! Also what are those books on your shelf? Postmodernist nonsense, except the book by Dennett. Also I oppose the way Bach is used in this video as a background sound for a SJW-trans-gay video. Bach was a Lutheran cis-White male. There was no fucking around in girl's clothing and S&M dungeons in Bach's time and every sexual act lead to a baby who would in most cases die in the first years of their lives. Life was hard, but men were straight. It was overall a better time than in times of today's youtube.
can I drink a beer with you
Interesting argument, but I'm a bit cynical of the notion of "let's make learning fun!"  I certainly don't think learning about things should be boring and if you can think of ways to make a subject more engaging then that's great, but I'm also of the mindset that people need to learn to concentrate more and accept that they can't go through life expecting to be entertained all the time.
The Dorian Gray comparison was fucking fantastic
King Cobra lol....awesome video, people have forgotten how to have fun on YouTube and just claw at air now while crying about a sentence that was uttered once, therefore, I WAS RIGHT! YOU WRONG FOREVER! I'm a dualist that firmly believes everything is in an eternal battle with nothingness. Existence and nonexistence are born into one when there's a balance between the two. Your point on moral and aesthetic balance, the Dualism Schism couldn't have said it any better, sir.
Very nice, I've always thought that the problem with politics nowadays was that their was a confusion, between law and art, aesthetics and morals, and i think that the solution to this problem is culture, that Sade has to be read but also experimented by oneself, i'm an atheist, but i'm profoundly convinced that you cannot truly grasp and to some level fight evil, if you never enjoyed it, maybe what people fear Anita is taking away from them is the possibility of catharsis. And on both sides, what i find the most dangerous is this will of purity, that minds must be cleanse of any fantasy of violence in art, and at the same time from the anti sjw pov, public or private law of any reasonable restraint. In the end, i prefer Anita because like you said at least she has some sort of substance in what she says, while the Milo team is all about empty rhetoric and nitpicking statistics, without any kind of positive discourse besides justifying the status quo and for whom the ultimate artistic gesture would be voting for Donald Trump. I'm sorry i'm just rephrasing your video but i am very glad we share the same view.
so pokemon go's ability to make people walk quite alot and meet new people makes us 7 years old, good for it
The problem with Sarkeesian is that nothing she says is true.
.......................... hbomberguy sent me here via a tumblr post  and I have never been more grateful for anything in my life
Why do I always find myself wanting to drink when I see your videos? Anyways, awesome video!
Is Contra a Macintosh Plus fan???  She puts out better stuff as Vektroid IMHO
its so nice when so many things go left unsaid for such a long time and the whole world goes to chaos for years over it until eventually someone whose been methodically taking it all in finally has enough and decides its time to give a fuck drag it out into the front garden and pull down its pants in broad daylight for the whole neighborhood to witness and just revel in the gasps and midmorning birdsong.  originally said rape it instead of pull down pants
I have the impression that Anita keeps out any kind of style or aesthetic from her works because she thinks that's what "being serious" is. She wants to be taken "seriously". The idea that style/fun and seriousness are separate things is something that static cold universities  and academia teach you. Or a sad side effect anyway.  Just some thoughts anyway. Great vid. Thanks.
Couldn't quite concentrate on what you were saying what with your sexy earrings and enchanting books on that bookshelf.
you're pretty  and your videos are insightful and funny and i love them i gueeeesssss  but you're pretty
This the first video of yours I've watched and I loved it. The balance between morality and aesthetic is totally why I think humorous counterpoints to the alt-right are so important. You put it into words so well!!
I get showing Aurini when talking about misogynists, but Owen too?  He does not deserve that characterization.
I strongly dislike Anita. Mostly because she's a humorless egotist who raises hundreds of thousands of dollars from her fans and then doesn't deliver on the project she raised money for. She raised hundreds of thousands of dollars for Tropes and has only done 14 episodes in 3 years. Fuck, British television series are more prolific than that. Also, she literally infiltrated video game culture just to shit on it. She doesn't even like video games. Maybe she does now; maybe she grew to like them I don't know, but it just seems really disingenuous. Seems like she thought she could make a quick buck off nerds, just like a lot of other piece of shit "geek culture" celebrities. But I'm sure you've heard all that before. This is probably a pointless comment. I like your videos, though.
How have I not heard of this channel before!? This is great!
I don't agree with much of what you say, but your videos are very entertaining and I dig your style so I watch them anyway.  I dislike both Milo and Anita, and disagree with most of their opinions and far from being amusing I find Milo's attitude to be one of the most off putting things about him. I guess it doesn't help that they're both pretty exploitative and mostly looking for attention/money. Anita being more preoccupied with money and Milo being more preoccupied with attention/furthering his career.
Godamn you are fucking hilarious! XD
(If it matters I'm firmly against SJW, and New Feminist and New Democrats (Bar good guys like Sanders). I supported Obama over the many Republicans except for Ron Paul which amounted to nothing in the end. I've supported gay marriage since I can remember and have always been deeply pro-trans rights. I still get shaking my head at Milo and Conservatives when they talk about social issues. But its almost weird to say the same disgruntledness I feel for them I get from Democrats and the 'movement')  What I find strange is that either side sees themselves as reactionary or against the system. The other the established or some cult. Scrolling through the comments of your videos and even some of your own points I noticed the trend of forming a anti-social justice league and even people saying anti-feminist. This seems to have upkicked and whats even stranger is I see some assumption that gah! All these channels against it(SJW crap)! It to me shows a cognitive dissonance. You realize many of these channels if not all were motivated by the constant bombardment and corrupted mainstream media right or the religious right? That the reactionary movement isn't what is puppeteered in the mainstream. In fact rarely do I see any creator that is of independence not towing some SJW narrative or points of contact.  Its constant. The establishment quote unquote is on your side and the fight is against a reactionary movement to a new found push. The term feminist has become widely unpopular within recent years not due to mainstream reporting but to independent sources and outliers. Recently conservatives have gotten the tip of the hat and started backing the reactionary movement and now I would think seems entrenched apart of the conservative movement. I think all should remember many of us hate Republicans and conservatives just as much as the new democrat push. Just before this onset of SJW the same people were viciously fighting the dogma of Republicans and I'd never ever in 2012 thought I'd have been so violently pushed to supporting Republicans more then the traditional democratic side. It seems this reality is so easily forgotten by many on the other camp. The many youtubers are the same who went after Christians and their shit. I still cringe like fuck and roll my eyes when I hear by gods light! This group or at least a large..large section is atheist-secular liberals and pro gay+trans rights and oh...a lot very socialist. The commoness is very diced and close..so my point in this is you should remember that a torch has been carried into what many think is Marxist, Fascist lands.  People like me who supported Obama through the internet in both 08 and 12 when it came down to two. We aren't the conservative hit pieces or some group or cultist ideology. But a reaction to this push forward. Its a reactionary movement versus a establishment press forward along with the many people following on its dog tail. You can claim all you want you are promoting progressive and positive ideas and reacting against the system or changing things for the better...but remember all you are fucking doing is social engineering with a corrupted establishment. There's too much to swallow with just that alone for me to ever support the democrats again. Its just as dogmatic and corrupt as Republicans. Trump might win because of this. So my point here is realize that this is a reactionary group that's hardly unified besides sharing collabs and simply being a apart of a trend. Its not something entrenched with a variety of News publications the entire Democratic party and the support of the President and among other things. You guys should understand the side you are on. A side rittled in with the establishment while the reactionaries would be thrown out in the cold. This is just one of the serve issues I find with a lot of your categorizing of these people. Milo is simply a ally to many of us because he supports what we so vilify. Hate him/love him. He's smart. He's cunning and he's hurting your movement. Watch any time he's on with someone else..agree or disagree with his logic he dominate conversations. So to the many who hate him remember he's not a idiot and you should take him seriously despite all of the retarded things I've heard him say. This is precisely why Trump is popular also. In the end of this little off shoot I'm just saying this movement can't be disreguarded as some group or collective of 'shitlords' Its a reaction to your ideas. Not a proaction. Its people who you formerly voted with and supported in debate drawing a line in the sand. Know your enemy or you won't beat them.    Besides that I love all of your videos Contra. Vehemently disagree with the logic sometimes+Am a shitlord. You are good at what you do and have sound and honest logic that I rarely see and can't help but roll my eyes at how basic bitch it is. Keep pouring them out.
Cobra is the most disgusting thing I've ever drank, and I use to be a crust punk.
did you get a sex chance
She seems like an Eevee. Call her specific names & she will transform, in front of you, to either a 'hot potato', a 'wet sponge', or simply 'shocking'.'.
Love the picture on your bookshelf!
My library has about 50% overlap with yours.  The picture of Sarkeesian is, admittedly, an exception.
XD
I really appreciated the Japanese character under aesthetic
I think you're miss-understanding Milo, or perhaps you're just looking for the wrong kind of substance. And that's not your fault honestly, I can totally understand why a lot of people don't get the Milo thing. I certainly agree with a lot of your criticisms of him.  From what I've seen Milo isn't fighting the battle of ideas with words and debates as people normally would. He's provoking people to show the worse side of their ideologies and biases so even if you disagree with what Milo said or did you still come off questioning the other side of the argument.  When Milo says mean things to people on Twitter and gets banned for it, I think most people (including myself) dislike what he did. But then that often leaves you asking, should people be banned for saying mean or politically incorrect things to someone online? Because as someone who's said mean and controversial things online I don't think it should.  Perhaps it's similar to how people protest by walking around naked. I think a lot of people would find it at the very least distasteful for someone to do such a thing. But on the flip-side you still need to question whether people really should be banned from showing their natural bodies if they wish.  Anyway, I think it would be nice to see someone try to bridge the divide between these ideologies on YouTube and the internet in general. If we use the example of feminism for a moment, I think people on both sides of the argument agree with the idea of equality and equal rights. They just differ in approach, probably because of a difference in the facts they've been presented with and their experiences. Someone who can fairly question the experiences and "facts" being used by both sides of the argument may make the exchange of ideas a little more reasonable and productive.
I love you
These videos are so (weirdly) crucial in today's "SJWs" vs. "shitlords" and it's so refreshing to see this amazingly funny (and cute, you look awesome) take that's self-aware but also legitimately critical as well!
Oh here we go again... Yet another fucking video where you dress up like a bloody girl and make me question just how straight I really am!  Serial though, great video! This along with videos today from libertarian socialist rants and hbomberguy have made for a well distracted hangover day. Good to see you guys collabing too. In general actually, for the longest time youtube feminism was either over-simplistic 101's from incredibly dull talking heads treating their audience like children with marketing inspired editing and scripts, or it was bedroom ramblings into a £5 webcam that centred more around drama, attention seeking and lying.  Now we are getting either highly edited, hilarious, self aware, honest and informative performances from channels such as your own, or less entertaining but more in depth channels such as Garrett and chrisiosity that aren't concerned with claiming that other feminist youtubers are sexual predators, for attention. Basically, it's a good time to be a feminist on youtube! Plus, it's really starting to make the anti-fem part of youtube look tired, ideological and uninformed, as it should do.
since milo is the lovechild of geert wilders and marine le pen, you must be their grandchild. i feel sorry for u bruh
You do raise excellent point. But I feel (as antifeminist so mayby you don't wanna read further?) that this allways talking about moral points and not enough aesthetic consideration is something more to do with core ideals of SWJ or Feminism or cultural marxisism. (They all have this point similiar just look for example videos done by Steve Shives.) Mayby it has to do with something you also feel deep inside you. The constant need to virtual signal!
When are you going to make videos about children expressing their sexuality as cannibalism or paintings of naked slave-sale-hotties again? But more seriously: your point about the moral vs aesthetic principle was pretty interesting, I'll try to look deeper into it
you are very cute
I've been saying that Milo sees himself as a modern day Oscar Wilde since I first heard him speak at any real length.  He can keep dreaming...
Great video. Now I'm going to find me a case of King Cobra.
I don't know if I'm a fan of Milo but I definitely appreciate his presence. Not because of who he is or what he says,  but how the opposition reacts to him. If they came at him the way you do he'd get nowhere, but if someone can profit from pissing these spoiled assholes off I'm sort of fine with it.  The opposition  made pretending to be a victim profitable so at least his approach is more honest.
Liked and shared.
THE FUCKING ANITA SHRINE   like i said on twitter i don't agree with everything he says but his stuff about free speech is great. people like him because he's an entertaining personality. it's an amusing circus to watch unfold. but people worship the man, to the point of having a cult, and that's where it gets weird.
thank god for you. I needed this. Now do a video about dave rubin
In my opinion the best point of Anita Sarkeesien is to show how lame the design of female characters in video games has been. It calls out those lazy game developers who just repeat stereotypes. The problem is that it seems she knows not much about video games herself and her way of showing it is oversimplifying important nuances. It might be good for a lay audience, but obviously not for hardcore gamers, who happen to be anti-left anyway.
Love the look
It would've been cool if you compared Immanuel Kant (moral) to Sade (aesthetic). Perfect Enlightenment opportunity.
Anita is hated because she injected herself into a conversation she knows nothing about, make it about her and then cry harassment, forging tweets or canceling the USU speech for a bomb threat not even the police took serious surely didn't help. Many of her old fans dislike her because she collected shit load of money from them and never delivered on her promises, or maybe it's because she went on Colbert and even he could smell there is something foul about her. The list goes on.   I personally don't like her because she's in it for the money and that's why you won't find any heart or soul in her videos and before you ask; No my wiener want none of her mustard. I mean com'on,... why you wearing hubcaps as earrings?!
wtf lol.
Just noticed how Margaret Cho has the same self-deprecation and understanding of tragedy in human life as the great gay humorists. Definitely not a coincidence. Richard Pryor has the same sense of the tragic too but his topic is race.
What's the distinction you refer to in the bit about Nietzsche? The 'rational' and 'intuitive'?
Moral is not just one position, but has many different aspects to it, and I simply don't share many of the moral values Anita has, they look to me mostly just like fascism... and that feeling just gets enhanced by her choice to make videos that feel like propaganda. On the other side, Milo is also not really to my taste, sure he brings up often enough good counter arguments against the feminist position, but the values he holds dear are also questionable. So, instead of seeing either or both as any kind of role model, I find both to be crappy. Luckily, I don't think I have to decide for either or have to make them mesh, but believe there are options that lie completely outside of the narratives they follow.
Milo is a guy who saw borat and thought to himself "maybe if I act like a prick the social satire will leak out of my pores"
the keesian is anti equivalent to reactionaries and their skulls? Or something more awe-inspiring and grand?
I remember bill murray was in space jam.
Wowie! I never thought Contrapoints would also make a youtube video  where he drinks a 40oz King Cobra. Mine isn't glamorous at all, tho.    https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LeFnbw0Ytpc
Great stuff. What's with the cross-dressing though?
Great video, glad you're back. So was the beer just a prop to show you got this done in one take? ;-)
I myself haven't indulged much on the material by Milo Yiannopoulos, and have no opinion one way or another about his style or the way he conducts himself, but every deed he does that would put him in a re-education gulag in  dystopian a world ruled by SJW-wannabe-Bolsheviks(and I do apologize for offending any actual historical Bolsheviks for comparing them to this bunch) makes him alright in my book.
Don't bitch on my nips bro.
This is excellent. Please keep the videos coming. I love how this video is itself a perfect illustration of the point you were making.
Thank You for your video God.  You look so pretty and delicate. I want to make long sensative love to You. I mean, only if You'll consent.  Keep up the good work and keep being sexy AF.
50 shades of grey next to infinite jest. Living the post-ironic dream I see
Amazing . Love the work 👏🏼👏🏼👌🏻👌🏻👌🏻👌🏻
Holy shit you drank a lot of King Cobra, that why I am going to forgive you and assume it is the alcohol talking when you say you're better than Nietzsche. Otherwise, would have to expose you as a beta male with a slave morality that is jealous of the superior Ubermensch  Master morality, and people would be like "Damn, he came in a raped you in the ass!"
I think Anita's forced to be boring and academic because every joke she makes is taken literally word-for-word by the hordes of people who hate her. If anything, she's trying to make a resource people can refer to, and part of that is not saying anything that might be misconstrued or used against her. The nit-picking is real.
holy shit I never thought anyone else recognized all the stuff Milo said About gamers
no offense intended(though im sure its taken) just an observation
nice outfit :)
Slay KWEEN
you look adorable
"it puts the lotion on its skin or else it gets the hose again"
or come off as such
I legitimately like King Cobra
dude,you are very creepy
Anita also said that people learned sexist behaviors from video games . . . just thought I would point that out . . . perhaps that is why people hate her.
"Grab your fedora"  IT'S A TRILBY HOW DARE YOOOOOOUUUUUUUUUUUUUU!!!  ...Anyhow, keep up the good work!
Your channel is great.  More anti-anti-SJW channels (would that be the right term?) with style, humor, and self-awareness have been sorely needed for a while now.
Pft, Nietzsche has no time for slave morality systems. Especially feminist ones.
So when did you change gender ?
Thank goodness... someone had to say it: Miloisms are formulaic as fuck.  He (by which I mean his 40 interns) simply regurgitate variations on the same "triggered/you're fat/I fuck black guys" lines over and over again.  Between working at a gay bar for 2 years and going through a rather ostentatious Morrissey phase, I believe that I have enough experience with this type of humor that I could have composed his tweets for him and no one would've been able to tell the difference... and I'm a complete mediocrity!
Shiiiit all y'all are releasing videos today. This is some calculated shit, isn't it? ALSO: Nice choice of music. I gather you loved the fuck out of High-Rise as well, right? (I say _gather_ because otherwise it would mean that you are utterly worthless as a human being and have garbage opinions. I'd rather not consider that.) That Portishead cover of SOS is to die for, too.
great video! handsome too :)
