What is the scene at 6:58 from? Is that Jodie Whittaker?
Masterpiece.
I still love watching your older videos and seeing how far you come, as a creator and a woman, its fucking insane. It gives me alittle bit of hope that i can do the same but in these two years ive barely advanced at all
Hilarious oyster joke! Nice job!
Your videos make me think and it's  refreshing because  there is so much garbage on YouTube!
Hahahaha!!!! One night stand @ 6:50.
When you start off watching a modern Contrapoints video and then autoplay sends you to one of the oldies and its like - woah, damn, I was not prepared for the "burgeoning" manly man poor contra used to be lol. My how time changes, for the better.
good i love old contra's videos.
Natalie's voice has got so much more feminine compared to this video, it's nice to see how far she's come!!
Woohooo... what a cool video! 😍😙 Thank you Contra.
https://youtu.be/bTomsgnRZFk?t=215 Explain the flowchart please
Watching old videos of you is amazing, you have come so far!
I love the alpha vibes she gives in this video lol. Sometimes it takes to be a real man to become a real woman. Life is so weird.
When you say "BANG" you sound like Mr Plinkett D:
“A boring white weirdo called Kierkegaard” 😂
I'm not proud to admit that at one point in my life i purchased manuals and instruction videos from those "pickup-artists". Fortunatly i realised that the person they adviced me to be would be a real douche, so i said fuck it. I'll be myself and live with it rather than live a dumb lie.
Contrapoints, Mozart and taking shots at Roosh. It doesn't get better than this!
I never thought I would laugh so hard at a not-yet-fully-trans woman dressed in a frilly shirt and dinner jacket giving cunnilingus to oysters
I met one of these creeps a few years back. He also wrote a book, in which he describes, and pats himself on the back for, threatening a girl he'll throw her out of a mountain cabin in the middle of winter unless she agrees to sleep with him. You'd think that was the really bad part..... but no.  A few days later I and another girl got the "honour" of talking to one of his friends, a 21 year old, who needed around 15 min of analogies and various other explaining methods to be half-way convinced that threatening someone with death might be the wrong way to sleep with them.
the song in 7:50 ?
The monastic chanting was on point. But in my opinion you shouldn't care about female pleasure unless she also cares about yours, and if that's the case, then the relationship should go far beyond a casual one night stand.
¡ B A N G !
Too bad, that Roosh guy isn't bad looking and he's pretty smart it would seem being able to analyze and turn everything into flow charts and stuff.  He's got that gamer mind that can breakdown the options and determine the likely outcomes based on patterns of repeated behavior. Mi could be wrong because I'd never heard of him until this video, but assuming he is a smart decent looking man, he could be having mutually satisfying sex with a woman who cares about him and wants to encourage him to design the next cool video game instead of leading such a sad life of trying to justify himself as being a successful man based on the sheer number of women he can trick into bed.
I'm an opera singer who looks at a ton of opera videos and I was so confused at the beginning of this video and thought YouTube was glitching
I hope Natalie didn’t really eat all these oysters This whole video is horrifying, except for her take
dad walked in on the condom part, love that for me
I don't know who does the italian subtitles but they are doing an amazing job
BANGGGG
Fuck. I actually feel bad about the sarcasm in this video. I mean, I feel pity for Rush, for young men being so alienated and unsuccessfully trying to figure out what is the problem and how to solve it.
Man it's so sad that dude's entire life is meticulously maneuvering his way into doing something he doesn't even like or care about.
I love you lol
Kierkegaard is beautiful, though...  As a trans person I really gelled with the first 40 pages of The Sickness Unto Death ... and if you substitute religion for, say, authenticity, continual social reappropriation and self-validation ... you'll *probably* be a happy person.
Say what you will about Mozart’s version of Don Giovanni, the last act is fucking iconic.
EA has more class than roosh about there sham-less micro-transactions, i mean; at least they don’t lie to your face and demand money...
IRONICALLY
Can you experience second hand dysphoria? Because if you can I am
i love you
Thanks for reminding me I'm trapped in a mind-prison.
2:09 What a mood
omg i didnt recognise your voice, i thought someone else was doing a voiceover lmao
Can i bang u
Rewatching all these because we now have a person living with us who needs it
I remember a time when Red Pill was this really benign male self improvement thing. It actually helped me quite a lot with overcoming insecurities I had. I look at what it's turned into now and I'm really glad I don't frequent it anymore. Maybe this is what it always was and what it was destined to be, but I'm just glad I grew up and saw how disgusting some of this stuff was.
TRY THE WINE
holy shit i had to wait a year to turn 18 so i could watch this video, and when it started i was like, "WHO'S FUCKING VOICE IS THIS" biggest jump scare of 2019.
Taking a shot everytime you say BANG! with that harsh, deep voice.
Should I worry if my life mentor is Contrapoints?
I'm calling bullshit on this one....it takes TWO to tango. Where's the female agency and accountability? I give a shit about Roosh V or pick up artistry, but to make it out like these dozens and hundreds of women are just helpless victims and are not full participants? Not very "fem-positive" you ask me....
It's weird seeing natalie, but like natalie before she was natalie...
Isn't she a Christian now? Roosh, I mean
So many assholes and so few thorough book reviewers.  Thanks cp
UGHHH I hate when folks ask me for my “body count”. “Body” count? What bodies? How many people I’ve murdered? That’s vastly more interesting than the amount of bizarre but ultimately unsatisfying sex I’ve had!   Worry about your own dick, pal, and lament the fact that you actually bother to REMEMBER the facts and figures of your sex life like some sad narcissistic encyclopedia.
Hey! I'm just watching this for the first time after having watched all your latest (year +/-) videos. I don't care if you're drunk, I don't care about production value, and I'll damn sure call you whatever the fuck you allow me to, queen. I love your perspective and thank you so much for continuing to produce amazeballs stuff.  to add-- you are you. you're as hot in this video sucking on shellfish as you are in your latest video about FFS.
I almost came at 5:38
still fucking great :D
Casual! ❤️
Update: apparently Roosh has found Jesus
How is this age restricted?
It is really REALLY weird to see natalie from back when she was a dude
I get SERIOUS Rhaegar Targaryen vibes from 2016 Natalie
Roosh V makes my vagina make the Windows shutdown sound
Feminism makes people bang *more.* In a society where women aren't afraid that they'll be labeled as sluts or be harassed and raped by men, they can just go and enjoy people as they wish which means more pussy for everyone.
Look I really like you. Your stuff. Except. The absolutely horrendous things you do to sea stuff. Its shakingly disturbing. I have to unsubscribe.
While I think some women really don't know how many people they've slept with I also think that a lot of them just don't want to say a number because they are scared of being judged as either sluts or prudes based on it.
baaaaaaahhhhnng
So weird that this is three years ago, amazing progress! In all respects!
lmao, hadn't watched a video this old yet, was listening as i showered and was all "omg, i have to sub to this dude, he's hilarious". then i find it's my sweet Contra <3 you're the best in any gender, kiddo :)   oh, and the oysters....if you could have seen me and my gf this morning....woof! lemme tell ya boys, a panting lady staring at you wide-eyed saying "where did you learn to do that?!?" is so much better than blowing your load (that comes later ;) )
ROACHESSSSSSS
Crazy, you grew up so fast.
So Don Giovanni is essentially Gene Simmons?
Jeśli jesteś od Gilnuszki TV to wiedz, że Gargamel użył złej odmiany, a Contra to kobieta :3
* Roosh, if his dumb book series is describing anything that really happened, is a straight-up rapist and he basically describes it as such and how miserable she felt. He's less a "Casanova" and more a "Paul Bernardo" without the torture and murder.  * To his credit; Roosh does practice safer-sex. I'll hand him that. * Roosh's head stick on a cockroaches' body is GOLD! * Also; The PUAs described here are not only revolting but their "technique" is ridiculous and irrational. Instead of using charm and allure to make her really want to shag them, they are miserable manipulative jerks who insult and coerce a woman who's not into them into bed. * And none of them even enjoy the sex and pleasure aspect. Just a bunch of angry unfeeling sociopaths who just want to collect "notches" in order to "prove" their "manliness". Pathetic. * Pre-Transition Natalie as androgynous prettyboy nobleman (like the Golden Twink) is soops hawt and a "boy" I'd love to "BHHHAAANNG!". * That said; I know Natalie's a woman and always was, deep-down and she's gorgeous either way and I'm happy for her in her transition. * I guess I could pretend that the Nobleman and Golden Twink are separate people from Natalie who exist in an alternate universe. The Golden Twink could be retconned as a fictional character who's a Progressive/Left-Wing spoof/counterpart to The Golden One. I'll call the nobleman Contranova, Natalie's male counterpart from a parallel universe. * The way Natalie goes "BAAHHHAAANG!" makes me ROFL EVERY....SINGLE....TIME! * I love ya, Natalie! You're a GODDESS!
The bit where he (now she) licks clams made me physically uncomfortable.
I want to say something that is sex positive.  All of my imaginary sex experiences have been awesome.  Nailed it!
Baaeeeng..
kto od gargamela xD
Dzięki Gargamel
Kirkegaard is NOT boring
But Contra! I can’t help but count them if the number is zero!
I'm not saying RooshV gives bad dating advice, but he should be approved by the FDA as a contraceptive method!
I feel... dunno... kinda sorry for these people. Treating sex like a status symbol / proof that you're a Real Man instead of a source of mutual pleasure sounds like a recipe for being miserable (and probably horrible at sex).
Delusional Homos talking politics. Ive seen it all
Gorgonzolablog
Pozdrawiam widzów Gargamela :D
Ktoś od Gargamela? Tak dla statystyk.
Your video about this was mentioned in the newest video from polish H3H3/idubbbz format channel, Gargamelvlog about harmful activity of polish PUA community. https://youtu.be/W7Ztq4qgKlg
This guy is disgusting. It's fucking sad and scary.
I just binged most of your Videos and without a doubt this is the one that spoke the most to me. When I was still in school I dabbled in PUA and such mindsets. Luckily most of the wilder theories didn't resonate with me that much. Still, ten years later I'm just kinda getting to emancipate myself from tying my self-worth to the number of women I made out with or even baaaaaanged.    The funny thing is, since I stopped making a date a test of self-worth and commiting my life to pleasure, women find me much much more attractive. The whole video made me think of a lyric from a german punk-rock song:   "As much as I can I want to love as much as I can. One or a thousand, that's not the point." (It rhymes in german)   In that sense: Live deliciously \m/
lindy west is a pig
I don't know. I think these pick up artists have helped allot of virgins and incels and losers and nerds, find love and experience sex for the first time.  These pick up artist are the only ones who care about them and are willing to help them. Despite them being players, they still play an important roll in society.
Please change the thumbnail. I almost couldn't press it.
Kierkegaard is boring?
3:36 what the fuck is this shit??? Can’t they just talk to women like normal people?
Learning how to sincerely relate to women and form genuine friendships with them is by far the best thing I've ever done for my love/sex life. Turns out, women like being treated like people (y'know – 'cause they're people).
I honestly grew up raised by a mom who's idea of teaching me how to treat women was to put on Don Juan deMarco.  I learned of seduction, but also to basically worship women.  The way he describes how a woman should be touched "softly,  like silk flowing over skin" held a very aesthetic appeal.  Sure I slept with a lot of people... but these pickup artists pervert that message.  They want the numbers, but not the experience...they ignore the act, the culmination of that experience,  and for that I pity them.   The happy ending (tee hee) to all that is that despite the problems ive discussed in other comments which I now realize are probably due to that very worship of a very specific set of aspects of the female form, I've got a gal I've been with for a few years now.  ^_^
cringe on the clams lol
Assertion: there is a 1:1 correlation between the techniques espoused in pick up artist 'guides' and employee management strategies used by corporations. this rests among the top traits that distinguish Corporate culture from, you know, other, gross, peopley kinds of cultures that don't do what I WANT THEM TO DO. NOW. this topic has been Omega penetrated. by me. DON'T try the wine. Forget about your list, spray with caution, BANG.
Sometimes I feel bad for straight women, like statistically straight men just don’t care about them sexually
they call it the doobly-doo cause of john green. he's one of the vlogbrothers and a famous YA author. he's the one who started calling it a doobly-doo and it caught on.
TRY THE WINE!
I was in the PUA scene for a while. There's some positivity mixed in there. But yeah, it's pretty bad. Also, boring. Going out on the weekend for the sole purpose of "Getting laid" is seriously fucking boring. It's so much damn work for, relatively, so little pay off.
Hi Natalie, I know this is like... 3 years too late but I want to explain the doobly-doo! It comes from Craig Benzine of Wheezy Waiter, further popularized by John and Hank Green of Vlogbrothers. I actually found your channel because of Hank. It's a really awesome community of people. Best wishes <3    DFTBA!
Love it!
I needed the laugh I got from your reading BHAAANG.
SAM RAMEYYY
You had me until you made the fucking animals comment
That was fucking hilarious, agreed. Well put
"I will drown that Child. I will feel nothing. " God I felt that shit
I wish I was half as smart as contrapoints omg
Since you bring up "Don Juan", the "opera buffa" is an operatic genre where the pick-up artist is the hero! (Boy, is opera misogynous!) HOWEVER, (and I'm surprised you didn't mention it) Don Juan was Mozart's brilliant satire of this genre! The catalog-of-lovers aria is one of the best comic arias for baritones BECAUSE OF ITS CRINGE VALUE! Audiences at the time would have lapped it up because they had been forced to laugh WITH pick-up artists in countless opera buffa. FINALLY, audiences could laugh AT the pick-up artist for the despicable poonhound he was.  But the REAL kicker to this opera is the final act: the opera turns into FULL-ON HORROR spectacle when the ghost of Don Juan's father shows up to dinner, sings a terrifying aria and DRAGS HIS SON TO HELL. Then, the three couples, whose lives DJ ruined, enter as Furies and sing a sumptuous sextet about their vindication.   This opera is problematic but its important to music history primarily for the final act. Mozart made a daring move writing a dark ending to his "opera buffa" but it was high time a pick-up artist got his just deserts and his victims got justice.
Roosh has a book called Lady and it's on how women should shut the fuck up lol
I love you've got an blues soul melancholic and lust anti hero
I don't Roosh is that difficult to understand. He's an Ace acting out an extreme version of sexual fomo.
This introduction along with the intro to the gender critical video makes me wonder if Contra has a thing for opera...I want more.
I love this channel. One of the few channels I have binge watched til completion *buh dum bum tiss* (literally every video as of this comment). I love Natalie Wynn. Thank you.
feel a little sad when I realise you would probably lose your male voice forever, forever? oh no.
6:16 I clicked on the video because of the thumbnail hoping for a Kafka reference, and you didn't dissapoint.
It is so satisfying to watch a video made by the person with such a cultural background that allows to stuff up the clip with references. And not only references to the latest Nicky Minaj songs.
Yeah, and the reason he doesn't like it is because he's DOING IT WRONG. If 'porn is your guide", try talking to those women afterwards. They're usually sore, and occasionally bleeding. If SHE'S enjoying it, she's going to want YOU to enjoy it too, and it's much more fun than just 'putting rod shaped engorged flesh into a woman's lubricated cavity'. Jesus H. Christ!
Anyone else binging these old videos and weirded out seeing Natalie before she transitioned?
I think I came when you ate those oysters 👄
I was a gal slut.....  I guess, I'm reformed now?  Or, I'm married.
Wow, watching you eat those oysters was fuckin HAWT.
I knew a pick up artist. He would try to teach me how, but i wasn't interested. He tried demonstrating how easy it was, he told me exactly what he was going to say, we approached a few women, some left because "I didnt have anything to say" and he made out with, and slept with one of the girls at the table. The thing I learned from the experience was he was simulating being a man. I chose to continue to work on myself.
The funny thing with PUA is that it can't help all men, or certainly straight ones anyway. No matter how confident and astute you are, if you're a short fella many women will automatically dismiss you before you've said a word and you have a far higher mountain to climb that these tricks won't help you overcome. Unless you're very outgoing, gregarious and have high status such as an actor or someone. Maybe they're the ones more susceptible to becoming incels...or was it heightcel?..
Great video Contrapoints (as always). I have to say videos like yours and Three Arrows & Shaun helped pull me away from drifting towards ever more conservative and right-leaning voices like Jordan Peterson (interesting psychologist, lousy on political issues), Ben Shapiro and the centre-left masqueraders like Dave Rubin and Tim Pool. So thank you and please keep up the great work.
I swear I get more and more worried with every wine glass
TRY THE WINE!
15 to 20 minutes thrusting, as well as cunnilingus and vibrator usage!
me watching Contra eat oysters: yeah uh... How was this not your first clue that you're mostly a raging queer woman
'1. I'm not saying there is anything wrong with male promiscuity.' Ok then why did you open with a story about a promiscuous man by describing him as a 'predatory male prick' and why do you not use that kind  of characterisation for women?
I'm a woman with a list but I just keep it to hate myself
8:52 I wish I could get head from love too!
Thanks for this video.  I needed a good laugh after reading the news today.
*_BAAANNGGG_*
The Kafka joke got me
So this is a comment that will never be seen on a two year old video regarding an off-handed comment at the end, BUT, YouTubers call the description the "doobily-doo" because WheezyWaiter started calling it that for fun, and the vlogbrothers picked up on it, and they have arguably more influence over current YouTube than Wheezy, so now people think the vlogbrothers came up with it when they didn't but basically everyone calls it that now YOU'RE WELCOME also Wheezy just commented on your most recent video and the CIRCLE OF LIFE IS COMPLETE.
Still holds like gold.
Do you have any comments on the M O U T H  F E E L of eating a clam?
0:09 For those people who don't know the story of Don Juan Tenorio (the character), which was the inspiration, the thing is that in the first draft of the story (el Burlador de Sevilla, great play by Tirso de Molina) he ends up suffering an awful yet justified fate: after he seduces the girlfriend of a marquis (Inés) and kills her father (Gonzalo) in a duel, his destiny is sealed: he invites a statue of Gonzalo to dinner as a mockery, and the statue appears, and latter the statue kills Don Juan literally sinking him to hell. On another draft, from the XIX century, Don Juan repents and Inés forgives him, yet both die going to heaven.  I'll just let that idea sink in: the inventor of the trope that PUA are inspired upon already though these people are awful and deserve a fate worse than death.
A nihilist masterpiece!
I ❤️u
Roosh is so creepy. I got a bad vibe from him the first time I saw him and his wide, hapless eyes.
It's depressing to watch Roosh. The only good thing I got from him was the idea to use baking soda on my armpits.
@ 6:49 Blessed
So what you are saying is that these men taught a generation of other men how to perform bad sex. Well that explains my early 20.
YES QUEEN SHOW THEM HOW IT'S DONE SHOW THEM HOW TO PLEASEEEEE FEED ME
Roosh's book makes me so sad. That excerpt alone is like reading the diary of an empty shell with a small penis. Like an android that can emulate basic social skills but can never feel any true connections. I'doffer companionship if I wasn't gay and several years his junior. I'm a cold hearted bitch and I still feel bad for him.
That book by Rooch V will turn anyone into an asexual.
At 0:42, the part of Don Giovanni will be played this evening by the Burger King.
I started watching your videos today and you are such a joy to experience! You are funny, insightful and inspiring! Thank you!  I think about the women that have ventured to have sex with such a person.... they might pretend that they are enjoying it or do not complain about him being a dick.  I sure would feel like like shit and would try to find the frustrations in my life that led me to a situation where I was completely dehuminized. Where I participated in dehumanizing myself.  It is what this kind of guy will always experience from women. I pity them, seriously, if they really believe that only such a vacuous relationship with women is possible. That they cannot feel the joy of connecting deeply with another human being just because they must attain a certain value in society by treating women as purely cubicles for their dicks. Surely with such a miserable view of persons/humans there is no way that they can really have a deep meaningful relationship with someone (maybe sociopaths can).  And so both are completely unfulfilled because surprise! we are social animals that feel a such shoot of joy when we are social. How two kids, whatever their gender, will play and learn about the world together. It is a sad sad existence to not see the beauty in that and not see that we will always be that CHILD. Don´t try to drawn it! :D   Looking at the algorithm on how to get a girl in bed just makes me think that we are so focused on living the most efficiently way possible, deconstructing every activity into logical steps that we disregard much easier ways.....how about practicing kindness? I would say that the algorithm for that is much simpler: 1. see a person in need 2. try to put yourself on their shoes 3. help anyway you can.   You will have a whole life of interactions with other people where you can choose to steer it in a more positive direction . The good thing is.. it gets easier and the feeling of being alive and sharing this amazing opportunity with other people can keep growing .......one love!!!!!!!!
I am seriously impressed by Natalie's drinking ability.
Does pussy really taste like oysters? If so it's no wonder that trans women are the hot new lay in 2019 because I've eaten an oyster once and I'd rather drink gallons of cum from girl cock, unless cis women don't mind me putting massive amounts of garlic and butter on it, then I'll survive on a diet of nothing but pussy for six months out of the year.  I almost got the chance once but I had the idea of putting Tabasco sauce on it and she packed up and left without a word.  My roommate read Roosh's book and told me what I did wrong was that I asked first, and he knows what he's talking about because when he brings a girl home, she won't stop screaming and begging for mercy for hours.  What a hot dog alpha male bread scientist that guy is.  He even seduced my body pillow and I'm not even mad.  You should book him for one of those hot wing interviews.
I keep forgetting she used to be a guy.
watching these earlier videos gives me all kinds of feels
Dude too bad you're a woman because you are a sexy af man! Lol fr tho. Crazy how you can look hot as either.
i'd lowkey tap
A Cockroosh V
Youre even a hot guy
I only started checking out ContraPoints fairly recently. Watching these older vids is like stepping into an alternate dimension.
only thing i criticise in this video is the concept of "manslutting", as if being a slut is exclusive of women.   aside from that, nice analysis
So basically he wants to get to the bed to prove he just can do it. no matter what. And doesn't even like sex. That shit is fucked
Funny 😂
Dayum you really know your Mozart yo
Really just kinda makes me feel sad for the guy. Or it would if he wasn't such utter human refuse. (To be clear I'm talking about Roosh.)
Finally read Kafka after years of watching your videos and I’d like to say that joke sucker punched me in the jaw
I just re-watched this video simply to hear you say BANG. Great stuff.
"TRY the WINE" 😉
" THEY ARE NOT BAD BOYS JUST BAD  PEOPLE"
Watching you playing with yout tongue is the most erotic scene I've seen in my life <3
My god.... I'm so happy I'm asexual because sexuals are fucking weird.
The way Roosh V describes sex at 3:04 lets everyone woman alive know that he's a bad lay, useless and boring in bed.
Where you are messing up is asking yourself questions. The trick is to start planning out the next conquest just before you pull out in order to keep your mind occupied and avoid getting caught up with those gross love feelings.
+1 for the weeping angel
“Bang is honestly one of the most depressing books I’ve read and I’m a Kafka fan!” GOLD.
Damn watching your old shit is weird. Glad you got a long ways in finding yourself.
As a fat chick I have been abused my whole life by men who want to fuck me but don't want their friends to know they want to fuck me. This has ruined my life. I would like them to stop this. Please.
I'm falling in love with this woman, dang.
do dennis reynolds
I had a woman use me because she wanted to get to 100 before she turned 30.
I wish Contrapoints would do a video about Warhammer 40k.
Contra was equally as hot as a boy. And woke as fuck in 2016
I've always found the whole PUA thing to be a bit pathetic, but I do think more women should pay attention to what they're teaching, because I absolutely despair at how many seem to fall for it. These guys won't change their misogynistic ways if PUA techniques actually give them what they are after (even if it only works 1 time in 100, they'll still consider the techniques to be successful).
Wow you've changed a lot in the past couple years. Amazing. Go you.
It’s so weird seeing her pre-transition.
9:49 I think that's more for the part for being slutshamed as men seemed weirded out by the idea that women enjoy/want sex than merely being "charming", if women didn't get their value as a human stripped off just because they have a lot of sex partners, with no doubt women would be loud about it too
WAIT WHY IS THERE A BACKWARDS SWASTIKA ON YOUR CHE-
I really despise when people add "man" in front of words like slut, whore, hoe etc it's like literally confirming all over its a word reserved for women only, why don't they just say slut (not that I like labeling anyone like that in the first place but if they are gonna say it they might as well just say the original word and go) -_-
'I will feel nothing' and the blues coming in like 👌
'I will feel nothing' and the blues coming in like 👌
Do you miss flaunting your nipples?
Roosh V recently said why he went down that path...overcompensation,he didn't get laid in high school and college so...yeah
One of my top youtuber and one of the smartest minds out there.
wow didn't make the connection between pick up artists and lack of affection from some guys. Think also porn doesn't promote too much affection.
People like roosh are why I carry a knife on me whenever possible
Oh no, lolita is on the napkin list Bad fictional napkin man
I thought “Bang” was a biography of Guy Fieri, imagine my surprise
OMFG this dude Roosh actually has the nerve to call himself a PUA! 🤣  More like an attention whore but I’m guessing that wouldn’t sell many books 🙄
Is it prejudiced that I prefer his videos where he talks like a dude?
I'm dying every time you say "bang."
You know what? This reminded me of "Wedding Singer" bar scene, when guy who idolized Fonzy said that he was unhappy.
^_________________^
Not even sure how one would define alpha/beta male, could someone explain the concept to me ???
Omg your voice is so different wowwww you've changed so much thats actually really cool
6:16 that moment of immense satisfaction when the thumbnail picture is actually in the video
wonderful
Okay I'm confused, who is and who isn't bloody Contrapoints? Is the guy narrating it Contrapoints?
I love this.
Is it just me, or does Roosh kinda look like that one guy from heroes?
❤❤❤
As someone who discovered your channel in 2018, I had to look again to make sure I had actually clicked on a ContraPoints video!  Still, great video, even if your voice was weird back then. 😀
I think I am in love
Roosh went from pick up artist to all out alt-right nutbag.
« bang the hell out of her because that'S what i want to do»   But is it Really Roosh?
Shows the clams: Me: oh no
Whats the name of the song at 7:56?
i cant but think how i miss her crossdresser times. and that manly voice. Wait. Cunnilingus isn't a sexual activity?
Should trans-peeps be in the military? One the one hand, they seem to have a lot of mental issues, as you have shown me, so how much damage can a lil’ PTSD add to an already fucked up psyche? Why take a perfectly healthy cis-person and give them PTSD? On the other hand, can you handle the pressure of fighting for your life very well?
What's cava?
Oh I know a guy like this. He always has many women around him and speaks of them as objects after he's banged them. The worst for me was when he had sex with a girl I liked after I had kissed her, and then told me " he took her from me a little bit" Not giving a shit about this crazy but amazing girl's personality at all. I really wanted to punch him then. He tried to hit on me as well, by doing a demonstration of how a girl once kissed his neck. But that shit don't work on me... You gotta be an actual nice person to get anywhere with me.
9:00 THATS AUTOGYNEPHYLIA or something
I can't be the only person that feels that thinks contrapoints is a feminine nickname can I? I guess maybe it has to do with my introduction being post transition.
The drinking problem really gets out of hand ;)
It feels almost dirty to come back to pre transition videos, but they're so good. Obviously she's gotten better as time went on but this stuff is still great
Lovely comedy
That sketch was Oscar worthy
And then there’s Super Seducer, a game made by one such individual, has an extremely defensive fan base, and in the second game they had the oh so mature middle finger of blowing up a convention of YouTube critics (so in other words the fantasy of a lot of people in Gamergate LOL)
You should make the way you say "bang" your outgoing message.
This is a FANTASTIC video. Contra is backlash love dudo. Feminism is just do it and be it ... Whatever ...
this cunt roosh v has the appeal of a school shooter, wtf its this sorry excuse for a book? bang? ramblings of a deranged bastard!!!
Did you know the leading cause of lust is dehydration, aiye. Sounds like pseudoscience... well better safe than sorry, am I right, go drink some!    P.s. that's why they call you thirsty.
I DEMAND THE LINK FOR PURCHASING THOSE CLASSY BROQUE COSTUMES...anyone care to share?
"Women all seem to mysteriously have no idea how many people they've f*****. This is charming and adorable..." LOL I'm glad someone thinks so...
Why doesn't Contra love me? What are these feelings that are happening to me? Am I dying? I hate this.
BAang
You are the Achilles of Social Justice Warriors.
Did he say "a couple hours"??
Your weakest video. A lot of assumptions. Why the fuck isn't people calling you out more?
What part of Don Giovanni does Contrapoints use for the first time she uses Don Giovanni?
Poor Roosh :( I would hate to have such a sad life
Oh poor heteros and their books, they will never transcend to gay levels, imagine if they had dark rooms haha.
TREY THE WHINE!
>Lolita Uuuuuuuuuuuhhhh
I think we should casually love each other hardcore.
Wow these "pick up artists" give out horrible sex advice. Each and every word made me dryer than the Sahara desert down there.
Well adding The Spirit of Love to the list things you fucked would have been a great symbolic note to end on by itself.
Great video, I just want to point out that you're oversymplifying the whole rape and harassment matter. It has been shown time and time again that consent is not always crystal clear, and there seems to be no sort of correlation between the severity of the crime and punishment. You made a woman feel uncomfortable for 10 sec by holding her waist, (or shoulder in the case of Neil degrasse Tyson) and you're pretty much stigmatized for life and may be fired. There has to be some room for error, guys are not taught this and all the weight falls on them to do everything right so that girls don't feel uncomfortable. I don't think it's incredibly ignorant and misogynistic to say that a lot of us could use some guidance. You think I wanted to be a creep when I was 20? I just didn't know any better. Now I'm seeing famous people's careers and reputations being destroyed for similar things I've done and I can't live with myself, cause I know I didn't set to make anybody uncomfortable back then, even if I did a couple of times. And I assume most guys have been creepy at least a few times throughout their lives. We're not monsters. Most of us have to learn through trial and error. If these errors automatically turn us into disgusting monsters, than I predict men will take less and less risks, and both sexes will suffer for it.
What's the opera song near 1 min called?
Omfg her old videos are so odd to see. What a glow up lmao
So what you’re telling me is: This guy obsesses over what other guys think of him while having pleasureless sex with random women? And people buy his books to learn how to do this?
It's probably a bit transphobic to think like this, but the 'being a man' comments like 'i'm a bit of a man slut myself' were funny
"Before I penetrate this topic too deeply, I want to pull out to cock block some premature objections." 😂😂😂
It's been amazing how much you've changed in your transition since videos from this time. You look, sound and even gesture way more femininely nowadays.
Unlike these pick up artists I always thought it was important to be good at sex. Not only is that just good manners but at least that way when the prospective partner rejects me I know it really *is* her loss, not just mine.   (Also surely quality at sex rather than quantity of sex partners is the real way to be an alpha male.)
Boys are gross.
I'm so glad I never fell prey to a pick up artist. But I feel bad  women were tricked by these guys. that sucks.
I laughed every single time you said bang.
I've been called a whore by my friends and this is still leaps and bounds better than being a pickup artist
you are so quirky, great stuff!
Hahaha! Real life PlayStation Network medals.
I could watch you eat oysters all damn day...
There are so many times in this video, where I want to add an extra-like.. It's just genius!
thank you so much for the video! finally an honest take on pua
Ispagna Lasagna
i've always wondered why pick up artists even exists. i mean it is the fault of toxic masculinity also that men think sex is commodity and you have to have as much as possible to be 'cool' right? it just proves you're a very insecure person obsessed with proving to -god knows who- that you're 'worthy'. maybe to your toxic, insecure bro friends. but idk what do i know.
"If you like this video so much why don't you *b_a_n_g* it?" I LOL'd.
Hah! Traaaaaans!   😂
ugh I am so in loooooooove with your mind thank u for your content love ✨
I bet you’re fun to club with
Behold: the most expensive to produce video on this channel by virtue of oyster volume alone
Now I know who's behind penis enlargement pill ads.
9:25 actually many of them are the ones who have political power
Calling beneath the video/comment section a dooblydoo is a vlog brothers reference that would’ve spread through the community like tyler oakley’s ‘hey whatsup you guys’  they used to say the dooblydoo bit before ‘don’t forget to be awesome’ at the end of the video if i recall correctly
BBBAAAANGG!!
i fucking love your content omg
I think your channel is my new favorite
https://youtu.be/2Z4zMrNNxfg
this is so weird to watch after her transition
This video literally speaks to my soul... I’ve been nothing but a man slut, just indulging as much as I can in NSA fun and then out of the blue this married woman who was seeing me as a side item somehow melted the ice wall around my heart and I’m so sprung.... After 7 years of having sex, I told her and that’s when she ended it.
You had me at that still from the I Want To Break Free video.
That lipsinc
I disobeyed you, you told me not to watch your old videos, but I did and I love Em
...CASUAL! ❤️❤️❤️
I want to go to the opara with you.
"I'm just a girl who can't say no..."   lolololol
my brother played this chopin waltz the first time i got high, i could see laughter in the notes. amazing experience. after that i learned the piece haha pretty ez grade 6 piece cant really concentrate on the talking cuz the music is too engaging and interesting, and builds to a climax. might want to find stuff that is more ambient and boring
Yeah, Im so bi haahahah
9:27  Agreed. However, Sargon and his Anti-SJWs seem to think that this is exactly how all feminists are like.
✌❤🐥🐝
I will literally never understand a man who doesn't enjoy going down on a woman. It's the snack that smiles back!
you and your videos are so perfect. The humor. The content. The oh so subtle sex jokes. magnificent.
"TRY THE WINE" ajshanJanajamak I'm D e A d
Starting out with a reference to Don Giovanni... Contra, this is  why I keep coming back to you.
3:14 "Lessen the resistance". Jesus!
I also think that men often don't understand that a women isnt just a passive subject that is there to be seduced. THEY decide if they want to have sex or not. You having sex is just a result of her making that decision of 'im going to have sex tonight' earlier in the day. I don't think men understand that 'seduction' often just isn't a thing. The girl looks at you, decides if you're hot enough for the evening, talks to you to see if you're a murderer or not, then decides to go home with you. The seduction part is just 'how to act normal enough to her so she doesn't think i'm a raping pickup artist.'
6:15 DON'T BLINK!
You know, I want role models too. But HOLY SHIT, when I see dudes looking at someone like Roosh as someone to look up to... man that makes me sad.
The way those “alpha males” talk about sex makes me think that they might be gay or asexual, but they’re in denial. Men being attracted to other men, or not being interested in sex at all isn’t considered “masculine.” So rather than considering that they don’t like sex or aren’t attracted to women, they conclude that sex isn’t supposed to be enjoyable for men. It’s just a disgusting and tedious way to make babies and feel powerful.
I fucking love you so much Please never stop making videos
Food all right? TRY THE WINE!
The opera has a fucking banging overture though
B A N G
As a music major, this opera frustrated me to no end in my undergrad. Good thing jazz is different, oh wait.
You are The Mr. Plinket of social commentary
Never, ever thought I'd be turned on by someone eating oysters.
Never, ever thought I'd be turned on by someone eating oysters.
5:46
You put so much effort Into every video, I really love your work. Keep it up!
I'll bet roosh has every sti
10/10 video
BAAEHRNG
The clam bit was fucking perfect.
"this has been an expensive cunnilingus joke"  boy, am I sick of the vulva=seafood trope though
Whats the song at 7:46?
2:22 goals
Christ..... please email me 💋😍😍
I think there's confusion out there regarding the distinction between pick-up and the larger manosphere. They are obviously intertwined and every normal man wants to get better with women so there's overlap but I would argue that 'pure' pick-up is dead in the 2010's. All the top guys are speaking very holistically and their message is that of positivity and putting a fire in your belly in all areas of life, which ARE interconnected; it can be compared to substance abuse treatment, criminal rehabilitation or other social work where the focus is on strengthening all areas of life to lead a happier, more productive existence. Even the primitive game advice in the 90's, 00' or even prior to the 90's was not about doing some underhanded magician trick that would somehow get a woman to fall in love with you (lol) but owning your sexuality and understanding how intergender social interaction works so that both parties can have a nice experience; let's face it; a woman is not going to go to bed with a man unless he has already evoked positive feelings in her; it's about mutual pleasure. If you're socially awkward, even on the autism spectrum, you may try, try and try and never get a positive experience for either party but when you own your sexuality, commit to self-improvement and understanding female psychology you can have a positive experience even if you get shot down because you now have the balls to go up to a woman and demonstrate interest, which makes her feel good on some level even if she cannot exactly reciprocate completely at the time. As for the exploitation of women thing; it's not real. Every guy that commits to game is growing in value and even cool guys with their life together and good social skills (and good heart) get shot down the vast majority of the time; sometimes rudely. Women will continue to play dumb and hoard attention from both beta orbiters and the game aware guys whose value is on the rise and the game aware guys will provide the women with validation and good experiences for nothing in return most of the time without making it awkward for the girls because these guys have internalized the abundance mentality and their ego does not rise and fall according to the response of the girl no matter how vitriolic it is so they don't become stalkers or violent. The game aware guys are making the world a better place for everyone through their positive attitude and go-getter mentality. He may not be the best looking guy but if you have a good looking socially unaware blue pill guy and an average looking positive minded game guy in a club what's going to happen? Well the woman (looking for male attention, sex and possibly a relationship) will eye the blue pill guy but if they get into a conversation (which is unlikely because the blue pill guy pedestalizes women and is ashamed of his gender) the blue pill guy will make a bunch of subtle social mistakes (nothing heinous, it's just that he cannot lead the interaction and make her lose her socially conditioned inhibitions) that will turn the girl off or gets stuck in the comfort building phase or whatever phase he's uncomfortable with and both the girl and the guy go home frustrated that night.
nooooo you're murdering those oysters what about the liquor nooooo
You're so fucking weird and I love it so much.
Okay, so I'm FAR from some incubus-esque virtuoso of hanky panky (I've only had like three sexual partners in my 28 years of never-ending existential horror that is life), but I've honestly never understood what's so difficult about unclasping a bra... You just, you know, kinda pinch it and it comes off. Even my past girlfriends have seemed taken aback by it, as if I'm working some hellish black sorcery. Is it really that difficult for most people? I swear to my lord and master Mephistopheles I'm not trying to humble-brag or anything, I really don't give a shit about sexual prowess, I've just always been kind of confused by it always being something that's brought up.
I think I love you.
It's the *thrill of the hunt* , isn't it...? That pick-up artists enjoy the seduction/manipulation _more_ than the actual act of sex..?   At least that's what I've heard.
I think i have found my new home.
I've kept track, 0! woooo
Love that your image for pleasure and eroticism is from the women orgasming while trying to read  videos.  It always makes me think of the John Water quote "'If you go home with somebody, and they don't have books, don't fuck 'em!'
"Bang" has shitty typography. Too large inset, too small line height.
You’re just another notch in my belt! The belt I just took off. Bend over.
CASUAL!
6:07 are you truly an alpha male though if you can’t even get someone off?
0:58 omg the guy in the fur hat... there was a character based off him in an episode of Criminal Minds 😂
You're fuckin' smart. Subscribed.
Roosh and co, are douchebros. Yes I've been a bit slutty. No, I dont endorse the idea of racking up a score.
To all Incels: You think we hate you because your a virgin. No, We hate you because you are rape apologists with many among you supporting pedophilia. We don’t hate you for being ugly on the outside. We hate you because your soul and personality is ugly. We don’t hate you for being awkward. We hate you because you glorify mass shooters and rapists. Women don’t want to be with you, in part due to your ugliness, but also that you act and think like creepy rapists, who care only for themselves. No one wants to hang around a person who thinks women should be given to men by the state. If you didn’t know why the planet hates you. Now you know. Its odd to me that incels can criticize one another on how they look, develop an entire rating system on how to judge said looks and then discourage self awareness.
ya. thats how it comes to the 17year old girls that fucked with 10dudes and never come in a lifetime. cuz nobody cares bout a girl.... FFF to respect
BANG!
B W R A N G
A VICTIM OF THE MODERN AGE! Poor, poor girl!
The pick up artist mentality almost strikes me as a type of obsessive compulsive disorder. It's no about enjoyment or even about gaining the respect of other males, it's just about repeating a certain act as many times as possible.
Wut?
if only i could have a threesome with this 2016 AND 2018 you. if only
You know... After watching you for a while, I prefer the actual Contra to this strange impersonator.
I like doobly doo
I want to thank you Contrapoints for making me a feminist. You opened my eyes to feminism and patriarchy in a way I hadn't before and I think it's made me a much better person.
Nice mentioning of casanova, who was a fictional feminist and enjoyed the woman as whole, and just loved love. He was a hedonist too, but the good kind. He really gets not the right credit.
Going down waste of time? Now that is some grade a bullshit!
AND IM A KAFKA FAN!
To please a woman, you have to develop "other" skills.   *Proceeds to molest some oysters.*
Maybe I will bang this video! I’ll add it to the list of other hot videos I’ve banged, and all my friends will think I’m so much manlier and cooler than them.
I was watching this video in a Star bucks, and the banana condom part happened when a couple people walked by.
I love how you can't even say most of this with a straight face lol
Would love to see you talk about Kiekegaard.
I first came across your videos only a month or so ago, was very pleasantly surprised, subscribed & started watching more. You’re hilarious & at the same time you reveal a lot of sociopolitical views (most of which I agree with) which put these views across in such a creative, outrageously funny yet intelligent way that maybe some viewers will change their minds about the commonly accepted beliefs you explode. Hope so!    I’ve only one complaint about this one video, and that is your references to “reasonable feminism”. You implied that there are only two types of feminism, & your definition of “reasonable feminists “ seemed to mean those who seek equal rights such as fair treatment in the workplace, the right not to be raped, etc. I was actively involved in the early radical feminist movement of the late ‘60s into the earlier ‘70s, when there were a huge number of different factions within the radical wing of the movement. I’ve kept up with writings on the subject, also on queer theory & the movement, and there are still many different views & aims which I consider feminist, although the majority of women in the movements came to accept a view called “pro-woman” by the mid-70s, and this majority ousted those whose views differed. Ironically, those of us who were a small minority back then have come to see our philosophies become part of the queer movement ( I’m thrilled that these views from the late ‘60s-‘70s have resurfaced in a major movement).     In your other videos I had gathered that your views were more along the lines of what has come to be called queer theory. You often satirize sociopolitical views accepted by the dominant mainstream; you expose the mainstream binary sex views as unfounded social myths; you break down the commonly accepted ideas of innate masculinity of male & innate femininity of females. You’re constantly changing your appearance, donning silky dresses & stockings while swooning about in an ultra-feminine manner, switching back & forth and revealing the insanity of roles most consider normal & natural...I love how you’re constantly transforming & defying the accepted roles!    So why the comments in this video about “reasonable feminists”? The definitions you gave of “reasonable” sounded like the goals of NOW back in the ‘60’s. It made it sound, too, as if all other feminist views & goals are off the deep end. I was shocked.
7:00 DON DRAPER'S LIST
YOU HAVE THE BEST TASTE IN MUSIC
Is that Will Farrell?
There where two things I did not expect from this video. That the cockroach thumbnail was related to Kafka. And that I can't shake the weird arousal from you eating oysters like that what were you thinking
Thats a really good opera
Mili trente
You are gay. You will never understand the average middle class straight men.  Because unlike gay or rich dudes, or woman. We can not get laid like magic. We have to do a lot to get laid.
I've got this tendency to read whatever is shown in front of me. It's an unfortunate habit when people insist on printing text on clothing. But hardly ever am I myself truly disturbed by it. That flow chart however…… shivers….. That's just depressing.
io che in me sento si esteso sentimento, vo' bene a tutte quante...... aaah best opera, best channel, best person in the world
I love male you . Damnn
Slurp a maryland oyster
Certainly drink a lot, are your family from Glasgow?
But not conventionally satisfied the gamer fucking wimp.
I can't believe I have to feel inclined to say this. No animal is able to consent to sexual advances from a human.
I love that you exist and I love your videos. :)
You kinda look like Wes Anderson
Im sorry, but if you don't know how many people you've fucked you're a degenerate piece of shit
Its hard not to keep track of 0
Ew Bang made my vagina puke.
I had to take a break from this video by about 5:40 because I got too turned on and I was at work. :(
5:29 😶
minor correction that I wish wasn't true: "Don Juan" is actually pronounced "Don Jew-On", because the joke is that nobody in that upper-class society of Spain actually speaks Spanish, my professor was very adamant about this and I lost a year off my life every time it was "correctly" pronounced.
I love that they know the words to the opera at the beginning,, v good
A lot of opera sounds the same... but, was that Dmitri Hvorostovsky?
One of the most depressing books I've ever read.  And I'm a Kafka fan.  Lmao.  Contra is so good
I'm about to go back to university. I hope I meet someone as fun as Contrapoints.
I’m here for the clockwork orange joke.
As a Jordan Peterson's follower... I fucking love you.
"I'm a bit of a man slut myself" Honey.... :p
5:25 ignore the fishy taste/smell and EAT DAT PUSSSSAAYYYYYY!!!!!!
If your goal is to add as many women to your list as possible, you don't have to be good at sex. You only need to work on that if you ever want to sleep with the same woman twice.
Why the fuck did I have to learn about this? Have to be more careful in the future.
How did yall think she wasnt trans lmao
Try the wine... A Clockwork Orange...
La Donna e mobile!
I read the game and it’s creepy af
so basically he went from competing at wow to competing at getting laid lol
Ugh, your mind
Contrapoints is the cutest person in the world, in the newer videos when you talk about body dismorphia and how you don’t like looking back on your old videos I get so sad! Dismorphia is real and awful (I completely understand where you’re coming from) but you’re one of the smartest people in this hellsite AND a real cutie pie! Ily contrapoints, keep doin you, keep your head up !
Some one actually published that Roosh guy's book? Jesus.
Why would you pursue sex if it wasn't for pleasure, for both peopel to experience that pleasure and experience each other in that state? It boggles the mind.
This is so ignorant it's ridiculous, 3min in and quit.  You seriously thought that they were writing their memoirs of people they banged, then you start expressing shock that it wasn't their memoirs or you still think it was and you wonder why sex isn't mentioned until later in the book. And to think it's memoirs of girls banged, as if men are going to read other mens memoirs. You absolute fool. You have the mind of a woman not of a man.  And as for "negging", it's banter/teasing that is only meant to be done by somebody that can pull it off and on a girl that would enjoy that kind of thing, so much of the time no 'negging' is done.   Somebody can get laid with PUA without 'negging' and somebody that can't talk to girls would not be taught to attempt it in practise until they are much less awkward with women.   You are making videos on things you know nothing about, and people that know even less than you are impressed. .
Isn't it a bit of a leap to say that not being concerned about sexual technique is the same as not caring about sex?
Wow! My dissenting to pick up artistry and finally picking myself out of the pit of Hell of self flagellation that was PUA was a painful one. I in the between times me coming out as bisexual and me accepting myself as bisexual I read pick up books. it got me out the house and talking to people at least also I finally got rid of my water white pants and got myself some French Connection clothing so my starred improved apart from that it was a lot of forums reporting and doing stupid tasks.  In the end,  gave up and had to long-term relationships with trans women. Bang! Lol
5’3” ish
5’3” is the evolutionary apex for bending over at the waist while standing
Night STAND is .... I guess that’s a good spot sure that’s a double entendre
OK, goddammit. "Try the wine" again -why is that so funny?
I do kinda wanna bang that video...
Pretty good video, but I wish you wouldn't use Roosh V as representation of Pick-up artists in general. The man is obviously insane and he's already fading into obscurity. And Mystery and Neil Strauss? Seriously? Is this 2004? Why do people act like those guys are still relevant? I'd really like to see you dig into the stuff posted by RSD. They're the current market-leaders and have much more varied ideas when it comes to what it means to be a pick-up artist.
You are making amazing videos.
To be honest, I would understand if pick-up artists were younger guys trying to get laid to get better at sex (because that's a thought I've had and I'm not even a guy), but what's the supremacy in having more sex? I know what the point is, but I can't empathize with it.  I truly believe these are the other side of incels. Rejected, lonely guys who, instead of wallowing in self-pity, use this as a motivation. Honestly, not sure which is worse. Great video as always!
The weirdest thing I find here is. Like with incels, most of these men aren't like. Hideously ugly. I would say that Roosh nearly looks conventionally attractive but then there is the repulsive personality, it's my only explanation Women feel when guys hate and don't respect us and we respond accordingly Idk what to tell them except that people really do respond to personality (and like lbr Shape of Water and all that Phantom of the Opera fanfiction means that looks are really secondary) but I guess for that these people would want to like. Build interpersonal relationships n shit. And connect to other humans.  And we can't have that, these feeeemaaaales aren't human, are they
I'm conflicted. On one hand I want to pitty PUAs, and on the other hand, I can't be bothered.
BANG!
TRY THE WINE!
What a great introduction to the subject, lmao
Lost it every time you said “BANG”...
never did i think id enjoy to hear someone say the word bang so many times like i just did, but here we are
I fkn spat my drink when "I'M JUST A GIRL AND CAN'T SAY NO" came on
so, just a quick question: Why does this work? Makes me wonder why humans are dominant species on the planet. Nature didn't have anything better?
that book has the worst sex advice ever
I love your obsession with the Golden One :)
I think I'm in love with you.
This is the best YouTube channel out there!
Is this Lestat?
I think the “doobly-doo” thing is from Ray William Johnson’s show Equals Three?
I'll spend the rest of the day trying to BANG this video...
Suck the oyster LOL
The one person in this world who loved me back was close enough that we would share dreams.  Pickup artists piss me off because they only see conquests and are unable to see a potential partner as anything more
The PUA stuff confused me when I was younger.  I didn't make any sense -- why do you need to have convoluted theorem for talking to another person when talking to them normally will reveal if there's a spark between you?    Then I realized I was funny and generally not an asshole, while PUA tactics were for humorless narcissists and angry slabs of shit who are insufferable to listen to when being themselves.
As an opera singer, that intro made my day omg <3
hhahhahalololol yeah these creeps are really empty and weak, it's all about asserting power to them. the world of the fascist is about power, not pleasure.  never forget that.
The way you say "BANG" kills me😂😂😂
your videos are great <3 <3 <3
I like you but Kierkegaard is my best dead friend.
do you drink bc of the topic or bc your trans?
I read a different PUA book a long time ago, and I think sex itself was only mentioned in the FAQ section.  I can't picture myself in a world where I'm content with phoning in sex!
"This was an expensive cunnilingus joke."  But it was SO WORTH IT tho.  Every penny.
How could you speak this way about your own father?
I've fallen for you and I can't get up.
I bang you! <3<3<3
"This has been an expensive cunnilingus joke" - hilarious.
7:47 contra roommates
I'm asexual so this desire for sex to goal of like goes over my head a  lot .😂😅  I have no issue learning how to get better social skills and getting better dating game but aside from that nahh
thumbs up for the thoughtful commentary but also the Clockwork Orange references... bravo
And now you can add to this video : "A famous pickup artist and ultra masculine baker called Roosh V now makes his own scientific bread."
Was “TRY THE WINE” a Clockwork Orange reference?
The three sex positions rouge knows lol love it
I died every time you said *BANG*
Roosh bangs women for no other reason thsn to gain the admiration of other men...what does that make him? Can someone help me out?
The photo of Roosh in 2:48 is so awkward and wooden. It’s almost like he found a random group of women, took a photo with them, and pretended that he was hanging out with them later on the Internet.
I'm so in love with you!!!!!!!!!!!
Excellent video.
Wow that was actually rather depressing, Roosh seems to be grinding in real life like he did in Warcraft.
Kudos for using Stoya when talking about female pleasure.
creep
A few months ago I really got into this stuff (mostly rsd) and think I kinda put that into perspective. I think these arent that bad. Because most of the rsd guys (at least the ones I watched) are about 70 percent general life advice and their view on life and social situations is a sometimes very useful. Just take it with a grain of salt I guess.  So in conclusion I think make a valid piont about a big portion of the pick up scene but I think there are other examples too and maybe you could have adressed a broader picture, argue why it does not exist or say that you are just focusing and guys like rush v. Still a good video tho :)
I think the big reason Roosh went into very little detail in regards to sex in his book BANG is because by nature alone sex is about pleasure and reproduction not some over the top bedroom Olympic style performance to be scored on after the deed is done or some no pants dance style martial art that needs to be mastered like most people within mainstream society have come to believe due to bad information they receive from so called "sex experts" and self proclaimed gurus who sell that kind of  bullshit to the public for the sole purpose of making a quick buck.    To be honest the little info that Roosh gave in his book helped me out a lot by getting rid of all these false notions of thinking that I had to learn over 300 sex positions or multiple thrusting techniques to be good in the sack but only made me a complete neurotic mess ruining my sexual experiences in the past by simplifying it which is basically a few minutes of foreplay until she is wet and ready to want my cock inside her, then proceed to pound her pussy with reckless abandon in whatever position I want until my nuts are drained. As ridiculous as Roosh's view on sex sounds to the average person, it made my sexual experiences with the women I been with way better by doing what nature intended sex to be for men and women...animalistic,exciting,and passionate instead of mechanical and complicated.
In high school I was a complete dork and couldn’t talk to women at all. It was so bad and so socially isolating that it drove me into a deep depression. Then, in my freshman year of college, I found pick up and with it I learned how to not only engage with women but also people in general. I don’t use my pick up knowledge to sleep with everyone I can because that’s scumy! I’m still a huge dork, but now I’m not so nervous talking to a woman that it hurts.  I’m not defending pickup artist who sleep with people without regard for there well being. But I am saying that a lot of the guys who follow the pickup movement follow it so that they can find a way to talk to people and women in a way that is confident non needy and non creepy
Don Giovani, if I remember well, is not just about fucking as many women as he can. As you said, he doesn't even enjoy the women themselves, and it's not clear if the love is "consumed" or not. As soon as the woman fall in love of him, he won. He got what he wants. What leads him to that behavior is to challenge god and its morality. It has more to say than the story of a sad man who runs after women to feel like an alpha or some shit. In a way, he can be compared to Carmen, who is a free woman. She doesn't list the men she loved, but she seduces them and is kind of like a predator to men. She is completely out of the social norms of her time, and experience complete free love, but i always thought she was selfish. She goes to say she loves a man, who will lose his wife, lose his job to follow her in her illegal activities, and then she will just drop him for another one. Both Don Giovani and Carmen challenge the moral of their time, one seeking to provoke god by having a lot of women, and the other by enjoying her life and sexual life completely freely, while never belonging to a man. A bit too easy to reduce don Giovani to a creep, isnt it?
I’d put this in my watch later but don’t want to see that terrifying thumbnail ever again.  If only procrastination was this easy to solve elsewhere in my life xD
wishes of women* as if their wishes outweigh men's.  some men use deceptive means to lure women, some women are manipulative of some men hence the friend zone.  so its whatever
Natalie! I've just discovered your videos and now in the sweet exquisite pleasure of binge-watching.... you absolute BABE!
THanks so much for making this. Those dark attitudes about women are the thing that haunt me the most through life. Why are we hated so deeply? I'm just trying to live my stupid life like anyone else. I can't fuck every dude who honks his car horn at me. It's just not practical.
Agreed except for the feminist part, they are more than that and people lisent to them
"TRY THE WINE!" 5:50  naughty, naughty, naughty
Lol this new thumbnail shows up for me all the time as a recommended vid and I'm very phobic of roaches so it's like AAAAAAAAAAAA, and I know u changed it because dysphoria, but idk I feel bad telling YouTube I'm not interested so I let it be.   I guess what I'm getting at is you're worth the mild anxiety seeing images of roaches gives me  :3
I love that a two year gap is all Contrapoints needed to go from just someone in a red dress and lipstick, to the glory that we have in the current age, (so glorious).
Dooblydoo? You can blame the brothers Green for that one. Ah, Vlogbrothers, coming up with childish names for things since . . . I dunno. Always?
Could some one tell me the music playing at 08:01 onwards?
Ok I don't know about that Roosh guy but your claim that "He and other Pickup Artists don't actually care about sex but only do it because of their mindset that sex determines your worth as a human being" is interesting but isn't justified. The only think you gave as justification was that the act of sex itself was explained very less compared to act of getting there. And this isn't nearly enough proof. It may be just be that for desperate people, -people that usually consult Pickup Artists- any sex is good sex so it doesn't have to be very satisfactory.
I used to sleep around a lot until I got married at age 28. I'm 40 now and getting divorced. So I'm back dating and to be honest it's much easier now to get laid than it used to be about 15 years ago. Why do people need to learn anything from pick up artists? It's not that hard to find women to meet online.  Firstly, make sure you're well groomed. If you're expecting a beautiful girl who's well dressed and in good shape, it's only fair that you put in some effort on yourself. If you're not a good looking guy naturally then maybe get in good shape which is more than sufficient. Shave, take a fucking shower, buy some cologne, dress age and size appropriate.. It's not that hard.  It also helps if you aren't a prick to women. Don't use cheesy pick up lines. I've seen guys say shit to women at bars which is downright embarrassing.   Funnily enough, I met a girl at a crowded bar who was approached by a guy who was clearly drunk and slurred out some pick up line. The girl was standing next to me at the bar to get drinks. She realized I heard the entire exchange so she looked at me with a look of bewilderment. I smiled and said don't worry not all of us are assholes. I asked what she was drinking and bought her a drink. I didn't even bother saying anything to her and after saying thanks, she started talking to me. I was with my buddies while she was with a couple of friends. I didn't hook up with her but one of my friends did with her friend. Having sex with someone no matter what isn't my ultimate goal so I'm happy when I meet random people in bars and we end up having a good time which sometimes leads to sex either the same night or on second or third dates.  They say nice guys finish last. It's not really true. Treat women well. There's nothing wrong in trying to have sex if that's your priority but don't treat them like they're an inanimate object without feelings. There's more to life than sticking your dick into ever girl you see.
calling it the "doobleydoo" makes me angry too, you're not alone. Bunch of John Green cultists.
To me PUAs like Roosh are just snake oil salesmen pitching themselves to incels by saying that militant  feminism is the reason they are not getting laid and if you follow his program you will get the keys to the sexual kingdom. Would love to hear your take on the incel/black pill movement and what makes them tick and how guys like Roosh would potentially  appeal to them  (if you are so inclined to make such a video) Keep up the good work!
So...this is a video about some kind of Wicca ritual?
A presumed sociopath wrote a book about sex that isnt actually about pleasure or the enjoyment of the thing he and many who emulate him persue so relentlessly. What an incredibly sad joke of a life.
Matt colville did the doobily doo thing
Laughed out loud at the oyster cunilingus demo! And loved the outfit. Great points, well presented.
This hilarious watching in 2018 with you constantly talking about how you're totally a man! Glad you've found who you really are!
I listened to pua bs. DO NOT DO IT!
This video is disgusting.. wash your hands before you handle meat, you maniac, lol
*casual*
This was the weirdest shit I've seen in a while.
okay 3-4 times now... I've liked your video's at the end of your video before you've even started your end thoughts and I've been like.. maybe I should wait for the end of his(...her) videos... then I do the same thing again on her videos and I'm like 'profound realizations that I knew were already completely true!' ..bravo madame. No bestiality though.
I wonder if Roosh V ends the same way Don Giovanni does.
if you werent so fucking gay, i would subscribe.
No offense, but why would anyone take Contra seriously when he/she looks like a bit of a kook and seems to take pride in it?
D E G E N E R A C Y
This is awkward... I've only seen you as female. Good for you on being who you really are. I kind of wonder if you look back at these videos like some people do with some of their baby pictures
You and the oysters, oh my gosh :’)
Good thing I have such a low sex drive.
The trouble with collectivism is that it infects the mind to such a degree, as to completely disable critical thinking.  People make references to "PUA's", or "MGTOW", or "Incels", etc as if they are all the same and have the same goals.  It simply isn't true.  There are *individuals* in this group who often even argue about what the best way is to do things, and have completely different goals.  I have read a LOT of pickup artist material because I didn't do well with women at all as a young man.  My problem was always that I didn't act soon enough.  There are PUA's who want to "bang" as many chicks as possible, and then there are ones who want to find a life partner.. and then there are ones who just enjoy being social and dating.  Lumping everyone together is a terrible habit that the general public seems to be getting into, as if the individual members of a group were all the same.  They aren't.  All I had ever wanted, and attempted to seek from PUA material was someone to love, and be loved by.  Unfortunately that's not at all what the women wanted.  They just wanted to fuck.. so they left after they realized I was looking for a relationship.. and found someone totally not serious to ram it up in them.  There is a lot of bullshit social programming and lies going on, and it has men fucked up in the head.. and also has good men being punished for the actions of bad men.  Are we not sexually repressed enough?  Like.. how sexually repressed and shamed must we be?  At what limit will women and cheesy leftists stop slut-shaming men while claiming that female sexuality is righteous?  Why can't we just be happy and not manipulate people?  I bet feminists are banging more MGTOW and PUA's than anything..
This video is quite interesting to me, especially since I spent years of my post divorce life having sexual interactions with womanizers and well-known womanizers.  I was fully cognizant of my activity and intentions.  In 2008, I met the alpha-male of alpha-males.  It was a good time.  He seemed to move on, while I moved on to other countries.  He chased me.  Followed me.  Begged me.  Finally, I agreed to marry him.  Now I am married to the alpha husband of all husbands.  (Maybe his grandpa was better, but that is a different story). By the way, my specialty was seducing our most interesting contemporary philosophers.  Oh, wait!  I was the one who was seduced.  Foolish me.
I'm straight like a line but I want an 1 hour video supercut of that voice saying ..... "BANG!"
No feminism ever has said that all sex is rape. That's just men twisting the words of a feminist who said that sex between men and women is not equal.
"...and I'm a Kafka fan!"
You make really good videos. Fuck.
Maybe it shouldn't be such a surprise for a book that takes 111 pages out of 140 to get to the point, but that paragraph has a typo -_-
What about the dying art of seduction? Seductive, seditious, mind coupling, seduction? The devil's ultimately, scatological, art form?
youre brilliant and hilarious AF!!!
baaaaaaangggggggggggggggggggggggg
Started shouting "eat dem clams, eat dem clams motherfucker" to the beat of baltimore-club music track at about 5:25
For anyone here who understands the number-people (I don't), if you have sex with 20 women, and I have sex with the same woman 20 times, are we equal alpha males? And are the 21 women equally sluts? Is every BANG equal, or are some BANGs worth bonus points?
The real question about Roosh V is what happened to the previous four.
Good video (I'm 5 mins in), but not all PUAs are like "Rooge" (I hadn't heard of him until this video and am interested in PUA). Some are actually nice guys trying to teach men the skills that get sexually active guys laid, and making that knowledge widely available. They also teach mostly just about being natural and confident in yourself. It's more a self help thing than anything and it has changed a lot of lives for the better. Down with the dodgy PUAs though!
i hate your commie politics like the pest this on the other hand was very entertsining
7:41 I can't believe you tripped up and didn't say "BANG" here.
It’s so trippy watching these old videos.
5:25 Ewwwww.... I don't like this metaphor anymore....
I can't help keeping count of the number of women I've had sex with, because you just don't forget a number like 1 :(
i feel like you didnt really explore why he is like that, or outlined the differences between the archetypes of casanova and don juan, or how exactly does that work that he is deprived of pleasure in favour of the "high score", even though it feels like you are up to something.  at some points it felt like you are preaching of what sex is or should be, which is okay, but it would be way more interesting if you would explore more of the primary question you set, "why" instead of "why is this bad/depressing" cheers, love your videos
Another great vid. Thanks contrapoints.
Jesus. ! 😲
Plenty of women count the number of people they've slept with-but when they do it it's pretty socially acceptable.
Kierkegaard, a boring white guy...? I get the white part, but the boring??? Why do you think Kirkegaard is boring? He was rather nuts!
new thumbnail?
My first thought was "why isn't Natalie narrating?"
Love the thumbnail
I can't believe acting like a total women-hating jerk will not actually get women to want to sleep with you.
This is what is called "soul ties" bruhh xD
Those who do not do, write about it.
5:29 well, that was unexpected
Ohe yeah! I´m so totally about to fucking BANG the shit out of this vid O.o  Oh well... but only if it wants to, because consent is important! ;D
Don Giovanni!  Mozart!! You classy fuck, did not expect to see that
Tell me Antonius, do you eat oysters? Do you eat snails?
8:53 hahaha your fucking awesome x
That bedazzled swastika made me  laugh out loud!!! Fuck ur funny dude! 😂😂😂😂😂😂
I object that bjs aren’t a moral lesson; I always learn something when I get and give them
Late to the party, but hey Straw Feminists hiding in closets!
"dont ask permisssion to change position" Ewwwww that is rapey... Of course these "PUAs" can not communicate about sex like an adult -_- Of course, "porn is his teacher," and porn videos don't show the part where the performers discuss what they are going to do, so this dude ends up thinking it's cool not to get consent for what he is going to do. And "not complaining" is not what makes a woman rough or dirty...
Yeah, you're an autogynephile.
I admit I quite liked The Game. It certainly seemed like Strauss went through a character arc and seemed like a mostly nice person.
Iøm sorry to say this Nathalie. But you just don't understand Peterson. Like, at all. He's right..you're wrong. Yadadada..something.
God dammit, your joke just made me want some oysters. Gotta break out the hot sauce...
it's ok to keep a list, justo don't be a dick about it. and don't make sex with animals, they can't give concent
Yeah that RooshV chap.....its the dead eyes, something not right about that lad at all.  I'll give this an 80:20 agree to disagree ratio on this one Contra, we are capable of behaving decently towards women without having to dollop feminism on top of it.  But you fairly hit the nail on the head in this video. Props.
I never understood list counts. If the sex was great you'll remember it for a life time. If it was bad you'll forget it in a year. I've lost count of the number of women I slept with and how many times. But I do remember the sexual moments I shared with others that were totally awesome.
Youre a alcoholic?
Really cool and interesting vid. There's been a lot of stuff recently mentioning the sift from pick up artist stuff into incels and alt right weirdness. I must admit - in my uni years I used to read a lot of this kind of thing on blogs and websites, but the tone grew increasingly unpleasant in some articles. Not only the "advice" that these guys contributed was totally contradictory.
Hey I like Kierkegaard.
The second I figure out how to bang this video I will be promptly returning, don't you worry xDD why don't you bang it.... why didn't I see that coming..
I'm literally going to start saying "bahhng" like that forever now.
Somehow iv never seen this video
when u called kierkegaard a “boring white weirdo” THATS THE TRUTH TEA
when u called kierkegaard a “boring white weirdo” THATS THE TRUTH TEA
omg you're my sexual orientation now
Wow, Contra, you're really special. You have this talent to locate, isolate, and interrogate the underlying biases in our popular culture that is seemingly taken for granted by society at large. I think you're occupying a very important niche here and I hope you continue to scratch the thin veneer glossing over the fucked up aspects of everyday ideology.
My roommate has some of the books in this video, he doesn't have any game but he keeps trying lol.
So you've fucked a 'Wesley'?
<3
fuck me Contrapoints...no, fuck the Golden One and let me watch
I've been eating pussy since before it was cool. My friends used to talk shit to me about it but then their girlfriend would call me the second they broke up
Thank you so much for talking about Don Giovanni I love it so much it's so good! (Also!! As always really good video)
I love Cristalino...
I wish I was that Oyster 😏
I love your new thumbnail for this lmao
<3
I'm sorry, but I love this video so much. Natalie, this is you in my heart and fantasies forever.
Fucking hell... His level of Masculinity: Broken, nevermind Fragile.
Nice singing though! Let‘s hear the tune after a tete a dunk with a vigina denta!
"BBBAAAANG"
Aside from the obvious reasons you come across weird, you seem intelligent, yet can't keep your seething hatred for white heterosexual men from becoming apparent. It's normal for you to feel this way, as white heterosexual men remind you of what your parents wanted you to be, but your videos would come across much better if you tried to tone down the spite and bias. If you managed this, you could even win over some of those who are right-leaning.
Commenting to raise visibility.
So out of curiosity are you into men or women or both?
10:15 It was a graveyard graph!
Of the last two versions of Don Giovanni I have seen one had the Don retelling the story from what transpires to be a mental hospital and the other was set in the 1980s clubbing scene and the descent into hell was a drug induced coma.
brilliant
*B A N G*
Oh come on. Pick up artistry is so 2004. And it's been scientifically refuted beyond recognition. If you're a man wanting to pick up a woman, the only thing that matters is the looks you're born with. Fail that and you fail at life.
Should I be sleeping yes, am I watching contrapoints instead yes
Please, what is that opera aria?
Great video man.
“A boring white weirdo named Kierkegaard” 😂 I love you...   Though, I do like, or at least respect, ‘ol Kierkey as well... ✌🏼
Didn’t teach me how to bang. Only how to make meaningful connections and sexual relationships. 0/10
My ex would slur me as a slut.
🤣😂🤣 LOL OMG I thought you were gay but whatever I actually came here fully ready to say rage out about you shaming dude for wanting to actually be better with women but you made a lot of valid points kudos 👍🏿
Don Juan...the first pokemon trainer...he tried to catch them all...
" I don't go down on women before having sex because it's not necessary and doesn't guarantee sex will occur. If that is what you like doing then by all means go for it, but don't do it because you think it will lessen resistance."  what now? the fuck
B  A  N  G
OHIGETIT. They're clams.
you are really really HOT
This entire channel is like a breath of fresh air!
I love all the Kubrick references you sprinkle in your videos "TRY THE WINE" :D
I think it's a self esteem thing. Roosh sounds like he's compensating for a small perception of himself.
would you *BHANG* me? I'd *BHANG* me....
So basically they're Dennis Reynolds, hell one of them even calls himself a golden god
I want to have a glass of wine with you so bad.  I can't tell if I am losing my god damn mind, or if this is just really quickly developed hero worship.
I love your channel. best thing I have found on the internet since ASMR.
This new thumbnail is AMAZING. I just needed to tell you that, bye now
Would "the male version of The Handmaid's Tale" be "The Handyman's Tale"? Feel free to use my dumb joke in a future video.
I find misleading you saying these pick-up artists are "rapey"... Are they getting women drunk before they have sex with them? Are they having sex by force? Did they threatens people for sex? For what I've seen, these guys are just good at convincing women to have sex with them. That's not "rapey" at all, not even close.   And I'm pretty sure that, for every 500 women they approach, they are able to convince only one, which clearly indicates that said woman probably was probably looking for sex in the first place.
*_*B     A     N     G*_*
I'm watching this in my local Tim Hortons and now the police have walked in. This will be tense...
Pickup artists are like the male version of hoes. They're rakes.
In case anyone's interested in this, swastika of both mirror and real image are popular. One is for "shubh" or good luck and the other is "laabh" or fortune.
Oh ok, it's a cunnilingus joke.
It's called the doobly-do because of one the Vlog Brothers... but I forget which one.  I'm amused at the placement of the only unemphasised use of the word BANG! You romantic, you!
I have the weirdest boner right now
Fucking love you girl. You’ve helped me through some shit, honestly. I can’t believe I only found you today. Keep doing you, you’re awesome, level-headed and hilarious. Love you.
I agree with all of this except the sleeping with animals. Animals can't consent.
I don't mean to brag but I have BANGED so many like buttons so hard.
I wish someone would kill roosh v
i desperately adore you.
>"The sexual revolution is great! Let people fuck whenever and however they want, sex is for pleasure after all."  >"Also, never look into any tactics or ideas on how to seduce women, because that's sexist. Degeneracy is not for you, Cis scum."
"They are called pickup artist and they really want you to buy their book" yeah that about sums it up.
THERES NOTHING WRONG WITH WARCRAFT
Can you please consider making a video about how unattractive gaymen who do not fit into the male standards of beauty should go about enjoying life and not giving up on eventually finding romance?
You're just adorable. And smart as a fucking whip!
i really need a drink now.
I think this is my favorite contrapoints so far
i'm gonna try to watch more of your older videos since i'm kinda new to your channel, Natalie. i find i pretty much agree with your view on love and sex, more or less. i have never had the desire to be a "pickup artist" i just want someone to cuddle with, and love me, and support me <3
My favorite YouTube alcoholic.
They way he says "BANG"...makes me lose my shit every time. I could listen to it all day.
🎸
"You will be very upset if you go down on a girl with the intention of having sex with her and then get nothing in return". That happened to me twice, and you´ll be surprised on how successful slandering that ungrateful girl as a selfish lover while selling you as a generous one can be when you tell it to other girls (and even more when they realize you weren't lying).  That also reminded me of that episode of The Sopranos in which Uncle Junior is super embarrassed, even afraid to the point of fearing for his life, of other wise guys learning about him being a world class pussy eater because, according to fucked up macho mafioso logic from the fifties, eating pussy makes you a faggot because if you eat pussy then you'll eat anything.  And here in Spain we think that if you don´t eat pussy you´re faggot because you are, afraid of the pussy, go figure...
Why so many clockwork Orange memes
Casual! Lol
Ok, if you read a 140 page book called "bang" then you were looking to learn the art of pickup.   I totally get the pick-up artist. People are on some level simple. I mean they say that we all flinch when a snake strikes. And in general to some degree a person is going to derive self worth, pleasure, and happiness from the fact that they are more sexually active than another. Because procreation is a biological imperative attached to happiness for normal people. Also from the high number of sexual partners of course people get the satisfaction of feeling like they are more mature, intelligent, and experienced than others, even if it is technically only sex they are more experienced in. But I guess since to a large degree life is about sex it doesn't matter if they are intelligent, financially successful, or experienced in life if they are getting the ultimate end goal then they are winning a massive portion of the game that is "the purpose of life". Even if they are wearing a condom and not actually reproducing. It is basically like someone that breaks the shit out of Usain Bolts 100 yard dash record but stops just before the finish line and doesn't finish the race. That guy is still going to feel really fucking good about himself.
I think it was one of the green brothers who said "doublydoo"
I actually agree with this video. Pick up artists are predators, first prey on the insecurities of young men by saying things like "are you a fat pathetic creature who can't get laid?" Or "why are you sitting in your ass playing video games?" And then they teach those young vulnerable men how to treat women like garbage. Plus some claim if a woman randomly grabs a man's crotch without consent it's not sexual assault because then man is asking for it.
Don Giovanni was sterile.
Why do these people hate their penises?!
At 4:04, a banana that's meant to represent a penis ends up smashed into a soft, mushy pulp. Is that perhaps a bit of symbolism?
I find the capacity to design a flowchart of courtship just as much fascinating as I find reviling the values that motivate someone to design it.
I have quite a high count. Then life got dark and my count went up even quicker (at the cost of some potential LTRs). I ended up in some serious therapy and that drive to sleep around really was quite unhealthy and mainly a response to the emotional devastation I had after a LTR break up. I just handled the rebound so badly I was stuck in a dark limbo. Anyway. A lot of therapy and some celibacy (by choice until I am back into dating for the right reasons) and I've never been happier in my life. You see like those pick up artists types the hole I tried to fill was the one deep inside of my psyche.
These videos are art, honestly.
"Congratulate yourself on the notch" is just the saddest way to think about sex..
omfg is that "pretty normal guy" Hugo Schwyzer? I lol'd in spite of myself. Bad Xena lolololol
So in other words, it's about power, not pleasure. Huh. Sounds familiar, somehow.
i and every other man on this planet wishes we were good at pick up who wouldnt ? you sound like a woman when you say its too formulaic, women pretend its all about passion and nothing about slick moves, yet they chose the guys who are slick and reject the other ones, you can critisise all you like but pick up works, its incredibly sad, but lying about it like women do just makes things much much worse.
Really great video!
i like the background, with the sort of waterpaint on paper
0:55 wtf, the one with the hat XD hahahahaah
If there are men who want a book that gives genuine, practical advice about meeting women, without the PUA aspects of things like BUAHNG, I'd suggest a book called "New Game+: The Geek's Guide to Love, Sex, & Dating".  The author writes a column under the pen name Dr. Nerdlove, and he actually had a period of time where he, too, fell into the PUA culture. But he found it unfulfilling and creepy, and took what pieces of good advice it did have to give combined with the things he learned on his own (which honestly makes up the lion's share of his advice anyway) and make a more genuine, emotionally-filling approach. Not to mention one that's more practical and identifiable to most people.  And yes, he does give thought to the woman's sexual pleasure, unlike Roosh here.
How come you only look at Roosh specifically and not other pickup teachers who have more constructive things to say? I think there's more going on with pickup than you acknowledge, and there's more to be said about whats it's rising popularity means. Personally I think it's an attempt to reassert structure to the world of dating, the way it used to be when there were formalized systems of courting. Obviously pickup is nothing like "courting", but in both cases there are clear rules and guidelines to the romantic world that can be learned and followed On the other hand, what society has been giving in terms of dating advice to men can basically be summed up as "just be yourself!". No real guidance or structure, just a banal platitude. That's where this problem is originating from.
5:19 Ah, I see you're a man of culture as well
PUA is just ridiculously understood
b ... chhhAAAANGGGG I love your channel <3
You actually still feel "shame" or "regret" after you do get quadruple cocked, or do like 15 guys at a club, soaked on speed and vodka and wine (like me last monday) ?   How weird, I feel only ** R E C O I L.**
I love the blues music 😌😏
John Stuart Mill was a mad shagger.
Pls tell me where the clip at 6:34 is from
great, it's not even noon and I want oysters
3:50 ok so I'm officially the #1 person to bang, come here ladies and gentlemen **Leans sexily and knocks something over**
My favorite thing about this "pick up artist culture" is that it's supposedly supposed to get you laid a lot--hundreds of times, even. But if you actually find yourself a steady parter you can fuck all the time. You can actually have sex hundreds of times. With someone who knows what you like so it isn't weird or awkward. And your odds of rejection are super low--plus initiating sex is so easy.  Man, with claims like that I should try to sell this
$20 oyster eating patreon videos?? yeah?? yeah.
"This has been an expensive cunnilingus jo-" "PATREOOOOOOON"  this video is a masterpiece
Oklahoma!
Okay your damn videos really need to stop making me hungry.
Does anyone know where the classical music in the beginning comes from? Where Contra 'sings' along? I figured it was from Don Giovanni as listed in the description, but it's 3+ hours long.
BANG!
Best video EVER!
Inspirations have I none but to touch the flaming dove, all I have is my love of love and love is not loving..
"OMG guyth, don'th be alpha male right-wingerth, you mutht become obedienth male feminithth like the ethtablithmenth wanth you to be! ZOMG, theckth your privilithe you thexith whithe thith-male!"
It's quit strange that you compare a performing porn star, Stoya when reading soap transgressive litterature to real femal pleasure, is it not? Sounds cheep to me mate.
B   a    N    g
"How good it is when you have roast meat or suchlike foods before you, to impress on your mind that this is the dead body of a fish, this is the dead body of a bird or pig; and again, that the Falernian wine is the mere juice of grapes, and your purple edged robe simply the hair of a sheep soaked in shell-fish blood! And in sexual intercourse that it is no more than the friction of a membrane and a spurt of mucus ejected. How good these perceptions are at getting to the heart of the real thing and penetrating through it, so you can see it for what it is!" - Marcus Aurelius
That was pretty sad about that Roosh guy...
I would be all over a modernisation of Don Giovanni where he's a PUA!
When are you going to go gay? C'mon it's fun.
You mispronounced 'Kierkegaard.'
Classic American culture. Piling up things, toys and even experiences, not for their inherent value, but only what they symbolize (usually status). It’s why Alan Watts used to say Americans can’t really be considered materialists.
PRoTip: You can talk a woman into cumming without ever touching her.... UP your mutherfucking game boys. Some notches are better than others.
I am very worried about your shucking technique however....baby take care!
I am very worried about your shucking technique however....baby take care!
I was PUA's once... but, like....I wanted to get laid so I don't think it counted. Also....TERRRRRRRRRRRIBLE sex....JUST bad. Like you'd think someone that was so fucking into fucking would be MUUUUUCH better at it... or at least like concerned. I mean notches in one's belt are meaningless if the sex was pointless.  You can jack off alone.
Promiscuity without pleasure? That's just beyond insane, that's just beyond stupid. That's so ridiculous. Jesus Christ.
fuck that lil comic was triggering to read lol
I'm laughing my ass off  6:00 This tragic desperate narcissist dude used to live near me in Maryland
0:51 ... and people say im weird collecting  photographs of telegraph poles...
TRAAAAAAAAAIIII THE WAAIINE!! gets me every time. Btw Kierke is god you pleb.
ＢＡＮＧ
Don Giovanni > Nozze di Figaro. FACT.
Roosh V almost makes me ashamed to be Iranian. That guy is unapologetic scum. Actually, add Matt Hoss and his Parkour based pseudo-pornography to that list.
The gowwilla minthet!!
watching your videos always makes me feel like drinking...you're educating but damn you're a bad influence on me! i'm too impressionable ='[
I haven't seen the video yet, but just cuz it's part of the conversation, my brother tried to get me to read The Game because he thought I had a ton of social anxiety issues (granted that's true). I read the first chapter and was just really disgusted by it, it really was creepy how the guys saw women as things and I couldn't read past that
That book actually sounds hilarious 😂Maybe I'll torrent it next time I need to vomit.
I think i just learned how to eat out a girl from a cross dressing alcoholic with clams and champagne...Life is good
Subbed at the oyster bit. Well done you lovely fucking degenerate.
Hi, this is an old video but I'm new to the channel. Good points and all that, but more importantly does this guy give himself blowjobs on a regular basis?
had me subbed at the fucking oyster oral joke
ps fingal's cave is entirely awesome.   i can see why it inspired the hebridean overture.
TRYYY THE WIIINE
I don't think animals can consent. But humans that are of age and are consenting? Good stuff
"I'm just a girl who can't say no"  I fucking died
You mean I've had sex with 728 women for nothing!!??
'''Well I will drown that child."
I want someone to go clam me
Whys she so hot... the dooblydoo was coined by Wheezy Waiter I think ? Then perpetuated by vlogbrothers
you are amazing.
4:15 Wait, Rousch V fucked Notch?   That's kinda hot, tbh...
thought this guy was a woman at first
Lmao, 7:50
Contra, you pack punches. Your shit is so high quality people don't want to mess with you.
Eating pussy 👍 Stoya 👍 ContraPoints 👍 PUA 👎
You are absolutely too attractive, and I am absolutely too drunk.
Fuck me I'm a straight man and I found the oyster part arousing.
>Eating clams  As subtle as a metaphor about cunnilingus.
oh thank god I am not the only one who hates "dodaledo".   why does that make my skin crawl?
I'm deeply disappointed by your unflattering, disparaging, and tactless commentary on Mozart's Don Giovanni. In fact, you might even say I'm 'triggered.'
The spirit of love's eyeliner is ON POINT
You wonderful creature, you. <3
OMG, the "Try the wine" was so funny! :D
So I'm about 3 hours deep into a ContraPoints rabbit hole after just finding out about this channel. I love your takes on things. I also love your humor. Which confuses me because it is vaguely nightmarish and unsettling.
I dig your trashy Lestat vibe in this vid. Subbed.
"A boring white weirdo named Kirkegaard." Uh, cool. Are you joking about that little bit or is this more rage against the machine?
'Porn is my teacher' - haha yeah he's terrible!
Jesus, when you started eating oysters I almost sprayed sweet and sour pork all over my tablet...!
Apropos of nothing this Roosh V. is not physically attractive, so I do not get the appeal.  I completely understand allowing oneself to be seduced by someone who's actually hott, but this dude, no.
God I want CP to BHANG me.
BWANG!
you left out the fact that Rooshs book is pretty much a manual on emotional abuse. Gas lighting, negging....etc
1:00 Contra, I honestly think you would nail a lip-synch for your life on RuPaul's Drag Race
Oysters nearly killed me.
Hi. Just wanted to say that I understood everything except the backward svastica.
I never knew "bang" had so many Hs in
Did you understudy Farinelli?  Christ, Chopin would be flagging this video for using one of his waltzes.
Wise words. Also, ironically, good advice for PUAs out there.   If you have healthy attitudes to sex, care about female pleasure, and are honest and rational: girls will fuck you, and come back for more. Turns out women like pleasure and are fairly reasonable in their pursuit of it.
7:42 Did not say "bang" properly. Unsubscribed.
John Green calls it that. Not sure if it started with him.
I think they're insecure because they live in a society that constantly tells them their worth is tied to how many women they sleep with. They're just tired of getting picked on for being a virgin and want to show the world that they're not subhuman. That's why they get no pleasure out of it, to them it's more out of obligation than pleasure. It's sad because I'm sure he was more happy playing World of Warcraft, but all the bullying got under his skin and turned him into this. Because so many PUAs seem to be ex-gamers, I wonder if it's because they're conditioned to deal with problems by amassing points or victories, but it's probably just because they get bullied so much by the same media that promotes feminism.
Please do a video on mgtows!!
A large percentage of homosexual men are outrageously promiscuous.  "Pickup artists" don't even come close to having had the sheer number of partners that a good 10% of the gay male population has had.  And yet gay promiscuity is not at all under a similar attack here.  So why aren't you criticizing the gay population for similar behavior?  The reason is simple you are a paternalistic tool that cannot imagine that it is remotely possible that women want sex as much as men do and so you don't view the women involved in "Pickup" culture as participants, you see them as victims.  You are such a hypocrite describing the "Bang" as being such a bad thing while being fully aware that there are men showing off their wedding rings under bathroom stalls while you are not bothered by the complete romance free nature of that one bit.  The real problem that SJW culture has with Roosh V is that they cannot stand the reality of the actual sexual preferences and behaviors of a huge segment of the female population and it drives them crazy that huge numbers of women do like aggressive, brash men who do not put up with their crap.  The fact that huge numbers of women respond well to behavior that is completely contrary to the SJW narrative that all men should be weak testosterone-free syncophants who treat women as their lords and masters just drives them up the wall.  Too bad the reality and rhetoric don't match up.  The book focuses on what it focuses on to undo the SJW cultural brainwashing that makes men less attractive to women.  I look forward to your video on Gay pickup culture.
Found you through Blaire White. Best thing that's happened to me on Youtube in a long time. Your videos are pure genius with their editing, ambience and your wit.
I am by no means advocating pick-up artistry myself due to at best practical reasons and at worst that manipulation is a shitty and short term way to engage with women, but a friend of mine who does still believe in pick-up artistry said two things for which I had little reply:  1. That the coin toss analogy falls somewhat flat due to the fact that you cannot modify the coin's behavior in a fair coin toss, while with pick-up artistry you can modify your own behavior each time, and  2. The fact that talking to a woman about what she likes regarding sex or other forms of interactions is somewhat fruitless since there is a significant portion of women, from his experience, that do not know what they want in those categories, so you should try things until you find it rather than simply asking.  Just looking for replies, because sometimes I have trouble articulating my points. I did, at the very least, try to reply to the second point by saying that trying to gauge it is valuable since in the end he did figure out that his girlfriend didn't know. Better to do that rather than assuming.
i think... I'm in love with you
why have i found this channel just now
REEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEE
"I'm a moral person, goddamnit"
Precise. I know one of the original dudes involved in pickup who is actually sick and just wanted to find a descent girl. Roosh always turned me off for all the reasons you just summed up. bleh.
What's the name of the song that plays in the title sequence?
The fact that you're straight gives me hope <3
Ohhhh that oyster scene <3
dee impression near the end?
Well, you helped me hate oysters even worse. Thanks man...
I always show this video first whenever I introduce your channel to new people. It's your best video. Its also a great icebreaker because its generally agreeable that PUA are pretty scummy people to unite together to hate.
I love that I found someone who was as much of an "evil Sjw" and as much of a classical music nerd as I am on YouTube
I happened upon you today and am compelled  tell  you you are nothing short of  a genius.
After reading Roosh's description of sex I weep for any woman he's bedded 😭I never thought I could experience a bad lay without actually having to participate
Glad you actually read the source. Makes the commentary so much deeper. Cernovich seems like this kind of pit of sadness as well.  On the other side, "The Art of Charm" guys are sometimes described as "Pick-Up Artists" and I've found their advice very helpful.
_Bang_
"Amadeus" is awesome.
oh this drag is so fierce and fab!
which part of the opera is that from?
Why tf did you use a picture of The Golden One when you said 'sleep with lots of dudes' I'd rather not sleep with a Nazi.
I love your videos so much :D Keep up the great work
I'm working my way through your back catalogue. EVERY single video is fucking good!
Is Roosh gay? The world may know someday!
bbbaayng
AND I'M A KAFKA FAN
Something tells me that it is not a real woman🤔
no no no Margot
I love your channel and I love your content, but can you please stop ruining food for me?!
5:24 Goddamnit ContraPoints, those are oysters, not clams.
I'm dangerously close to that Don Giovanni mentality. Not rapey, cos a human's political autonomy is very important to me, but it's just a sad existence when all you can think about is having sex for the numbers and not the experience.   Any advise you can give?  :-/
10 points for black mirror screencap usage. ;)
Thanks to you I constantly hear BBBAAAAAAAAAAAAANG in my head
Cunnilingus is a waste! Real men Eat Ass!
In some of your clips, you seem to be channeling HowToBasic.
How to get shitfaced in 10 minutes or less: Drink every time Contra slurs the word Baaaanghhhh. I now have liver failure.
Perhaps Roosh will also be dragged into hell by a ghost statue.
THANK you for this video, I just got here from Chez Lindsay's, and I'm so happy I did. I thought: Who is this elfen fellow? Turns out he's an elfen fellow! Oooohhhhh.
You gotta be handsome and rich! That's it! LOL
the thing about Roosh is I don't think he's ever actually had sex more than 2 or 3 times if ever
Not gonna lie, when I saw the cover photo you have on this video I thought you were Winona Ryder trying to do Hamilton
I came here from Hbomb, wondering what the context for the Red Pill clip is.  Instead, I'm treated to something FUCKING GLORIOUS. +1
roosh is probably gay actually
"just don't rape people" this is surprisingly hard for some people.
What are your thoughts on MGTOW? You should make a vid about it.
The 3 sex positions: Girl-On-Top, Dogging, and Normal.
lol that scene with the Oysters, holy shit
Not really sure if ContraPoints is ripping off Hbomberguy or Hnomberguy is ripping off ContraPoints
to be fair, roosh v is just one PUA out there with his own warped little views....someone else like M from the33secrets is more about practicality and how to confidently approach women
BTW I lost it at the oyster scene.
It hit me when someone wrote about one of his books (Bang Denmark?) where they quoted something like " [Danish women] with fuck you, but that's it." And I naively thought huh? I thought sex was the whole point! Well it isn't of course. It is about control. That's why he doesn't talk about sex-that's not what he is about.
Oh damn I recognise that screenshot at 6:58! Black Mirror.
When are we going to approach CP about his alcoholism?
a mint and a half in and im already liked and subscribed !!  so glade Noel Plum mentioned that your channel was worth a watch. XD
I'm really liking your videos. And again, I don't agree with a lot of it, but I don't care so much because you're entertaining!
ＢＡＮＧ
It's all about how other men look at you...  or rather how you imagine they look at you.  These are very fundamentally insecure people.
Ah, a video where I completely agree with you! And the video was amazing and hilarious too, but that's no surprise :P
I havent had sex in 9 years
Found your channel today during my lunch break, I've got work to do... but damnit I can't quit these video!!
your depiction of oral sex was gold :D
I like sex, roosh is a rapist with a borderline personality disorder
Only just discovered your chanel today via Dick Coughlan link on his FB wall.  I'm working my through your vids from old to most recent and have to say, I'm loving every single video I've watched so far, and an looking forward to learning more <3
Every time you said "b a n g" I giggled.
I recommend improving yourself and being confident with who you are. Most of these PUAs, from a thorough study of the topic, are emotionally unstable and are just seeking to stroke their egos so they have something to fill that void of self-esteem. People only fins PUAs who don't actually have natural, deserved self-esteem repulsive because they sound rapey, even on the surface.   Just make yourself everyone wants to sleep with by being your best self. The best PUAs seem to advocate exactly that and use "game" just to teach you some simple basics of communication you should have learned when you were growing up and probably didn't which lead to your low self esteem and lead you to game in the first place.
I just love the yout videos so much!!!
I worry for your liver, great videos though. xx
wait are you bisexual cause I'm bisexual and that would be cool
AHHHHHHHHHHHH YOU ARE A FUCKING ABOMINATION, EWWWWWWWWWWW FUCK!
I don't think you realize that a man's promiscuity or ability to get sex is strongly tied to his social worth. The dynamics for men and women are not equivalent, mainly because our society and biology aren't either. Say what you will, but there is evidence that women are more attracted to a man who gets a lot of ass than not. With men's it's usually the opposite in regards to women.
Honestly. After watching all of your videos like three times, I feel inspired. To do this myself. I donno, maybe it'll be terrible. But I'm from Louisiana, and considering how fucking backwards this place is, I've got a lot to say. At the very least.
Wow your stuff is so hilarious and ingenious. Love it.
Came here from Noelplum. I must say some refreshing angles here, presented in a funny way ;-)  What I really don't get is that most men (at least all the ones I know) are not into sleeping with many women, but sleeping with one woman over and over again. And hopefully giving and receiving pleasure in the act. I mean isn't the whole point to pick up or be picked up by just one woman and then stay together and enhance and nourish the sexual fun you have together and also cherish the positive emotions the partner feels? I mean it's not only a good feeling to come yourself, but also to make her (or him or whatever) come. Seeing and giving pleasure is another form of extra pleasure so to say.  So why train pickung up women over and over, wouldn't it make much more sense to make guides on how to keep your relationship alive and happy and long lasting? Also I wouldn't want to manipulate a woman into sleeping with me, even if I am single, she is hot and it works. But then again, I am from Germany and from a background that many would describe as white privilege, so I probably don't count.
I disagree with you on a lot of things but this video was spot on
IIRC Roosh V is of muslim background which might be relevant to the discussion.
Seriously his profile is so gorgeous and he's so clever i love him more than a thousand ice cream cones
The fact that Roosh.V admits that he learned about sex from porn says a lot, especially since porn is made for men and only men, and the actresses always fake orgasm in them XD I can now only guess what he's like in bed.... really bad XD
I'm glad you appreciate good wine...  Have another glass.
This is probably the only video of yours I agree with so far. Mostly because I despise consumerism and pickup artists seem just like it, getting as much crappy stuff and then throw it away without even enjoying it in order to get some other crappy stuff.
NEVER. STOP. MAKING. VIDEOS ! 👌👌👌👏👏👏 ❤❤❤
My eye scanning combined your handle with the title to form "Pick-Up Con Artists". Surely this was an innocent mistake.
You are quite a beautiful and genuinely funny person... I'm tired of making points... so have a compliment.
For fuck's sake please leave Don Giovanni out of this, it doesn't deserve to be used in your agenda.
I bhhaaanged this video twice, i was gentle and considerate. but now it won't call me back or respond to my texts, wtf?! i have no choice but to become an anti-youtube-video youtuber and expose the evil youtube-videoarchy oppressing us proper, alpha videosexual males.
Hmm, one word comes to mind. Erotomania.
I like this video so much so I banged it
ok, OK. O Fucking K. Qre you gay, straight, bi, what?!?!?! WHAT! because my masturbatory fantasies feel more realistic when I know there is a chance and you got me pretty confused (and aroused) but mostly confused (just keeding, aroused too).
you look great but please don't do 80 push ups a day you will accumulate scar tissue underneath your deltoids and encounter pectoral deficiency when you are older invest in a set of dumbbells or even a bar bell and do a chest press instead
PLEASE GET FAMOUS WE NEED PEOPLE LIKE YOU TO BE FAMOUS
I can't 'like' this video out of protest for the honor of wheezy waiter (my first youtube love, and the creator the dubblydoo) how dare you dislike his perfect name!
Why would a man want to have sex with hundreds of women? Because he wants HIV and a whole bunch of illegitimate kids?
Am I the only person who'd read a matriarchal version of The Handmaid's Tale?
Man, I haven't seen your face in like what, 6-7 years now? I'm so glad you're back on youtube. Wish I had found this channel sooner. Cheers, Nick.
biology drives men to want more sex than women
this is my favorite youtube channel now. thank you!
You are hilarious and accurate. All I can say is I am convinced Don G. was a sex addict 😂 and egomaniac
now i know you watch black mirror, good stuff  v good video!
I really love that you speak with your own voice and have unusual and unique opinions.  While I don't always agree with you, I find it really refreshing, almost like Kat Blaque.
is it wrong that I snickered uncontrollably every time you lowered your voice to creepily say 'bang?'
"dooblydoo" was a term coined by "wheezywaiter" 8ish(i think?) years ago, that was then widely popularized by the vlogbrothers. I don't recall there ever being any sort of sense behind the term. Just something wheezy started doing that stuck.  goodGoodGood video, btw. First I've seen of yours.
Shine on you crazy diamond!
At least you still have the old school, edgy, youtuber entertainment caliber. This new generation is so vanilla that I could scoop up their content from my computer screen, plop it on a waffle cone and enjoy. They're so watered down that I could watch their videos in a chem lab and make homeopathic "medicine" from their manner of presentation. It's like Justin Beiber cloned himself a billion times and created an industry. Even the Emos are smiley, pleasant, and family friendly, good Gods! Youtube has become one big Disney movie with no end credits.
Holy sh*t, I'm glad you started making youtube videos again. Brightened my day!
You only addressed the most fucked up examples of PUAs (Rosh and Red Pill dude). Kinda reminds me of Sargon talking about feminists and citing Chanty Binx as their main example.  Also, 7:26 SAILOR MOON!!! #win
I'm in a kind of anti-feminist echo chamber on youtube lately and I'm wondering if there are any other pro-feminist channels as good as this one? I'd really like to hear the other side of the argument sometimes.
So, I'm here from your Patreon - as Lindsey Ellis is a patron and Patreon emailed it to me, and I'm loving your show, especially all the ways you say "bang" in this episode XD
great video, great make up. kinda want to watch/listen to don giovanni now.
What are your thoughts on "rape culture."
Baaahhnnging ahahaha.   Maybe Manson's Models for a less delusional text?
New discovery - where have I been all this time? - LOVE the videos & everything...this is fun & fantastic.
Rosh is very sad man, and does make me wonder about his sexuality. And of course he struggles to understand consent because hes forcing himself have sex. -that's just my opinion from what I'm getting from this.
Is that Miles Edgeworth cosplay?
would it not be more sane to learn how to please someone when you are a pick up person, i mean word could spread that you are a good lay
you pass more than me, and i'm 4 months on estrogen lol! nice video btw.
Thank you for your articulate and well crafted videos. I came across this article just now, and it occurred to me that you might like it. It focuses on male nurturance. https://norasamaran.com/2016/02/11/the-opposite-of-rape-culture-is-nurturance-culture-2/comment-page
I would totally hang out with this fuckin weirdo.
God I love you Contra... <3
Solid video.  "Doobley-doo" comes from Vlogbrothers. I think. I think? And they were/are pretty popular. It's derived from "downbelow", see, because it's down below the vid- you know what, I'll shut up now.
i love u
Spreading pleasure is a pleasure :D
Holy fuck the oyster thing was incredibly sexy.
Sit on my face. Eat me like a clam. Congratulate yourself on the notch. HAKO
...I just watched a man sensually eat oysters. Pretty ok with it TBH
I can't hear the phrase "erotic memoir" without thinking of Dennis from It's Always Sunny
I've watched this video over 8 times now, I think this is my favorite one so far.
The best article on Roosh "... Roosh's Denmark directory diverges from his usual frat-boy Casanova fantasies liberally seasoned with rape jokes. Don’t Bang Denmark—note the dramatic title change—is a cranky volume that (spoiler alert!) probably won’t help any Roosh acolytes score. Roosh calls it the “most angry book” he’s ever written. “This book is a warning of how bad things can get for a single man looking for beautiful, feminine, sexy women.”What’s blocking the pussy flow in Denmark? The country’s excellent social welfare services. Really." https://www.dissentmagazine.org/article/cockblocked-by-redistribution
Ah! I love you and you're beautiful!
this was hilarious
Oh, also I think John and/or Hank from vlogbrothers started calling it the doobly-doo. Please, someone correct me if I'm wrong.
"Well, I will drown that child. I will feel nothing!" Gold. Absolute gold.
Speaking as a fluid person who regularly likes to wear effeminate clothing, the bra-unstrapping advice might be one of the few piece of useful information Roosh has to offer.
Fuck you're hot...
really "everything is sexist everything is racist and everything is homophobic" is just .01% really REALLY?!!!
Brilliant. Loved the musical selection of the  video, among many other things.
new fav channel holy shit keep it up
Someone doesn't become a better person when they've slept with x people - they become a better person when they realise that doesn't mean shit. Keep making these vids, they're great!
Good video daddy
hot glorious bastard e.e;  also 1980's feminist..... although i really think the term sjw and feminist is ruined.... equalitarian is where it's at nowadays...
I was about to patreon, but then I noted your damn well drinking better quality goon than me, Hendricks, Laphroaig etc. Obviously it would be inequitable to help finance your best Dylan Thomas impersonation.  But.. then I was awed by your sheer conviction that cleaning up Daqueri vomit at 2am far surpassed reading Hegel, and had too sign up. Try the Lagavulin it's made a stones throw from Laphroaig but what a difference that short distance makes.  PS: You should be on Dave Rubin.
Great video!  Stuff that more people really need to think and talk about.
I'm wondering how many people stopped watching after the Spirit of Love gave ContraPoints oral sex.
Well then color me Casanova, baby! ;)  PS: Contra, please don't die of cirrhosis. PSS: What is the video of the giggling woman?
Solid video with a lot of good points.  It might be true that .01% of feminists are "antisex" or whatever, but honestly its my opinion that .01% of men are these walking sex spreadsheets as well. Pick up artists are in the great minority.  Now, it might seem confusing, but I actually have a lot of experience with "alpha males." And I got to tell you, they're really just insecure dudes who want other people to think they're tough. How do I know this? Because I was on an NCAA Div II Wrestling team. I hung out with athletes. I actually knew them. And when guys get together they tell stories and embelish. Its what they do. Is it right? maybe not. I don't know.  But I know for a fact that most of the guys who do this are doing it for the show and the societal acceptance. Because its what they think they have to do because they're "men." You hit that point quite well.  So now the topic of conversation probably shifts to "how do we change the culture." To that I'd say, good luck. Trying to change people who are trying to appear independent, masculine, and "strong" individuals is never going to work using the tactics that men use, or even you used Nick.  I think you know this, and I think that's why your videos are always serious, but pretty lighthearted. And yea, women do get raped from time to time and objectified or feel threatened, by it but I think that's because most of them really don't understand how alone and sad a lot of these "alpha" males are. I'm not saying that women are at fault when they're raped, but I think there's a tendency for women to get caught up in that same kind of culture where they have to feel like they are to be "pursued" in order to feel like they have worth. As a result, they end up putting themselves in quite compromising situations with people they don't know.  What's going to get the culture to change isn't to brow beat people and tell them how unhappy they are. They're just going to laugh at you and mock you. What's going to get people to change is for individuals to go out into the culture and connect with people on a real level. Plato's Cave is such a good allegory because once you've been freed, you don't shout the truth into the cave from afar, but you put yourself in real harms way by going back into the cave, speaking the truth, and then dying a horrible death to the wrath of the mob.  There is no other way to enact change for the truth. All other change will be merely political and subject to whomever controls the power. And if history teaches us anything, its that no power lasts forever.
Maybe Roosh V and friends do not like having sex with women because, as Kevin Logan once surmised, they are all closeted homosexuals trying to hide in plain sight.
Oyster shit fucked me up. So good.
_"And I'm a Kafka fan"_ lmao.
Please don't stop making videos for a very long time.
I always used to associate the term Pick Up artist with Cocktail artists. You know, they'd try and woo you with a spectacle, get you a drink, and slip you a roofie.
Dear sir,  I wish to register a complaint. From approximately one minute and twelve seconds onwards, you can clearly be seen drinking from a champagne flute while standing. Clearly, you should be drinking from a champagne saucer.  Yours, more in sorrow than in anger,  Disappointed of Dorchester.
Roosh V  Is a tragic case  The man seems to hate himself and he takes it out on women
Say BANG one more god damn time.
you have a great angle and perspective on things and i find myself thinking many of the same things
I always knew that sexuality was a spectrum, but I never really felt it until I watched ContraPoints diddle an oyster.
goddamnit contra, your videos are just too great. you're straight flames, babe. keep burning brightly in this dark dark youtube world.
How'd you get the wine back from the Spirit of Love?
Seriously, thank you.   You talked about non-binary genders in a video a while back and I know you said you didn't quite consider yourself as trans or intergender but man.. The way I get to see you (through a very curated perspective) on your channel in that very self secure and relaxed manner is incredibly inspiring and insuring for "someone like me".   This isn't about the video itself, but still. I just had to say thank you to someone (the first one in a long while actually) who has made me feel a little less like a freak.   Thank you.
God I'm laughing so hard right now. These videos are self-indulgent and decadent as fuck, and for some reason that's actually amazing.
God, I love that video series with girls reading beautiful literature until they orgasm...and stoya is just the sweetest
That oyster part reminded me of that creepy vegan man
I don't think that people like Roosh are going to find themselves attached to anyone. I think it was Mystery ( altho, memory might decieve me, it has been a decade ) that once told in an interview, that after several years of PUAing he cannot see women as other then numbers, and is so numb that is incapable of forming a relationship.
8:33 is this RazorfistXSpoony fanfiction at this point?
Honestly never thought of pick up artists in this way, and now they kind of make way more sense. People who genuinely enjoy sex for more than just its most supeficial levels of pleasure just wouldn't talk or act about it the way red pillers do. Mind blown.
You're my favourite kind of pervert.
You really have a thing for that Georgian style of dress, eh? Not that I blame you, it's camp while still being kind of awesome.  Also, some of the toughest humans that ever lived dressed this way, so you know, it's got street cred
You've just answer a question I had in my mind with this video. Get out of my mind! (no, please, stay)
5:41 XD
ContraPoints,  I don't have words for how funny this video is. It's more or less the best.  -- An infertile, gamma male who wants to drink in all the stuff you're talking about because "no."
I was the 666th like  Hard core
Nobody listens to sex negative feminists? https://www.change.org/p/target-withdraw-grand-theft-auto-5-this-sickening-game-encourages-players-to-commit-sexual-violence-and-kill-women
I gotta be honest, Nick, many of your videos aggravate me, but these last two were very good. The only thing I disagree with here is the part about not keeping score. I don't find anything wrong with keeping count of one's conquests.
This was fucking genius! Some real auteur shit going on! I feel like you're getting better with each video, keep at it!
Was that Stoya (i.e. the girl that falsely accused her ex-boyfriend of rape because he moved on with his life)?   If it is I have some bad news for you: Women like her don't understand consent.  Sadly, It looks like women, like her, are the ones that need to be educated about what consent is and not Pick Up Artists.
I was sceptical that Roosh was a rapist at first. I'd heard rumours and some asserted quotes, but I really wasn't sure if it was real. I got a hold of the books in question and found the quotes for myself. All true.
i notice all the classical music reference you use in your videos. are you a musician? or just melomaniac?
It gets worse. Google: "Roosh V, The Future Mother Of Your Child Should Be A Virgin Who Believes In God"  I do think you are under estimating how crazy and misandric much of feminism has gotten, but I'm not going to argue about it.
"Try the wine!" // I just about died!!
At 5:58 you mention Roosh trying to get away from his Beta male WoW playing days.  I think this guy got addicted to WoW for the same reason that he's a pickup artist.  He really really likes watching numbers go up.
This makes me feel sorry for Roosh V. Seeing those screenshots there's just this sense of "who hurt you". Like, this is the kind of thing people are talking about when they say "toxic masculinity". What's the point of having sex if you don't actually want to have sex, you just want to have had sex because you think having lots of sex is how you judge your worth as a person? Tesla didn't bang anyone and he was a pretty amazing person. Maybe Roosh could have put all that flowchart social manipulation effort into wireless electricity.
I like you :)
wow, that was hot enough for me to get over the grossness of the topic. Mostly.
the thing is about these fuckers is that it seems like they are only ever feeling calm/carefree enough to enjoy something when they are fucking, and even that is just a bad coping method for the crippling depression it fixes for 2 seconds
ContraPoints , whats youre opinion about MGTOW?
holy hell the Kafka-Roosh-Roach is amazing
Those oysters could have used some massaging and a dildo.  Just saying. Great video!  I get wanting to have sex with women, but those guys have always given me the creeps.  Something off about them.  I've felt sorry for the girls who "go" for that, but I never thought I should feel sorry for the guys, and their odd version of OCD.  OCSD?
I'm worried you've become an alcoholic
I thought I was just casually watching these videos but unfortunately I have fallen in love.
He hates women because he was denied sex throughout his life. For a man who isn't privileged to have the ability to woo women early, learning how can be a very painful experience. Women can be very harsh, cold, unforgiving, cruel. Understanding is forgiving. When we understand, what is there to forgive? I don't hate roosh, I pity him
I'd totally bang this video! Awesome job yet again. Thank you.
Don Giovanni may be my favorite opera right now. My favorite rendering is by conductor Peter Sellers, setting the opera during Harlem in the late 80s. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vMXU5pjhPTM
Calling the description the doobly doo also make me angry
Fortunately, I don't have to worry about burdening anyone with that sort of connection for a while, if not my entire life, what with my "extremely healthy" self-image and all. Third rung on Mazlow's hierarchy of needs? What does he know about needs?! I'm sure plenty of people have led completely fulfilling, not at all psychologically deleterious lives with just them and their mind prison, letting the hole in their being consume them from within as the existential dread of their perceived inadequacies keeps them perpetually Stockholmed to the walls of their skull meat! People like ... and ... and [Name not Found] provide excellent examples of that principle in practice. I'm so normal, guys! Maybe all of you, with your "sharing of emotional vulnerabilities" are the weird ones! I don't need nobody, you hear me?! I'M SO RATIONAL!!!! :O  Wow, even as a self depreciating joke, that has to be one of the most pathetic paragraphs I've ever written! Better not share this with the internet. Now to backspace all this and... What?! NO-
Psychopathy is a real mental issue that some people genuinely suffer from, and using it as an insult is kind of shitty. Otherwise, great video!
Keep killing it!
YES CONTRAPOINTS TY!! You're the best :')
Your videos just keep getting better!
Strong Dennis Reynolds vibes...
lmao with the constant try the wine clockwork orange reference. I laughed my ass off at that part when I first watched the movie.
Dude thank you for enlightening me to these psychos like Roose V. I seriously must have led a sheltered life to believe that by not revealing how many women I'd BANGED! would make me a loser. Also great meeting you dude keep up the good work  :-)
I had an oyster once. It tasted like salt water goop.
feelings are for losers!
He reminds me of a sex manual from the '60's that I read once because I am weird. The guy who wrote it was chiding the men of his generation to stop having sex with women like they hated it. No foreplay, in and out, roll over and sleep. He was like, come on, guys! Bring a feather in or something and just see what happens!
That was great, your videos keep getting better and better! Also, how did you time it so perfectly? I literally just bought a recording of Don Giovanni!
Extra points for "Oklahoma!" clip.
That's the most obscene oyster-slurping I've seen since that one time I got absolutely shitfaced with a bunch of Frenchmen.
damn it contra, you keep making me question my sexuality
What a world! What a world!... where a twisted fuck such as yourself makes more sense than about anybody on this topic...  (Hope you know I'm gently kidding. Great video.)
That segment with the clams made me uncomfortable af.
Keep them coming
I certainly agree that the manic toting up of sexual conquests is depressing. But, I think you passed too quickly over the contrast to beta-men. The fear of being perceived as lacking masculinity is a performance for other men. It's a psychology of normativity that is about male sex acts performed for the gaze of other men. That this may seem a little gay is not lost on critiques. Watch the movie "Goat" or "Riot Club" and see if you can't develop the queerness of hypermasulinity a little. Just a thought!
Where did you get that outfit?
As a hetero dude myself, I have to say, your videos continue to confuse the fuck out of me sexually. I love every second of it. Also, spot on about Rooshy boy.
I have banged the like button. That's another notch on the belt, along with the power socket and the refrigerator.
10/10 toungue fucking that oyster
i like how you are slowly crafting call backs and inside jokes on your channel, like an edgar wright film.
that movie clip had me crying. what film is that i need to see it.
Can I do fan art of you? You will be so fun to draw and I laugh at your videos. They're funny and informative.
I was thinking "wow that must have been really expensive" during the oral sex joke then you said it. 😂😂😂
One of the few channels where I'm surprised when I see someone who's wearing just a regular plain shirt.
I lol'd really hard at this episode.
you keep making videos about stuff i want to make videos about and doing it like 40x better than I would have >:(
This is why I have an open relationship. So that I can be in love with my sexy fiancé but also still fuck dudes on the side. You can't expect one person to satisfy all your needs, just like you can't expect multiple random hookups are going to fill your emotional void.
I love that you have been uploading so often recently.
I was in the pickup community about five years back. I kept stumbling on communities of dudes who had the same problems as me so I gave it a go. I joined the local "lair" and started practising pickup with pickup artists in my area - you'd be surprised just how many there are in urban areas.  I was the stereotypical awkward dude, 21, had 1 previous girlfriend and a couple of loser friends. I was trying to find a way out of my loneliness - in my experience a lot of the guys who do pickup are the same, either extremely lonely or sociopaths.  But, what really unions these people is that they're almost all overly analytical and as a result socially retarded. They're people who have slowly developed resentment for not being accepted by women or the "alpha men" growing up. It's no surprise that you see books like Roosh's when that's the demographic. These people don't really care about the act of sex or romance, they're not doing it for connection or love, they're doing it so they can accept themselves and find a way out of the loneliness and the rejection they've experienced all their lives.  You find a lot of guys in the community will get decent at attracting women then give up on pickup. At that point there's really no benefit hanging around with loser guys talking about different routines and methods. These people start wanting more than just to count their results and begin to want more meaningful relationships and friendships. Some don't though, but like I said there are definitely a large amount of sociopaths in the pickup community who simply enjoy manipulating people into the most intimate act. I would guess Roosh is one of those people who enjoys manipulating people. Most of the guys who are decent at game and in the community for a long time are that type.  But there are some really good pickup artists out there who also focus on giving guys advise to improve their relationships. Obviously these are rarely the guys who get attention in the media, but not all pickup artists are bad dude. Most are decent guys, just lonely and often a little bitter. For me personally it change my life in a really positive way and I'm in a great relationship now for it. But even if I would have to say at least 20% of the community is toxic.
WheezyWaiter invented the term "dooblydoo", to answer your question at the end there.  This might be one of your best works to date. I will share it with my fellow regressives post-haste.
FYI, I banged the shit outta this video (I may also have given it a 'like')
Um, what does Roosh carve his notches into?
Please do a makeup tutorial video. Please.
Yet another great video, Nick.  Intellectual points aside, I could congradulate you on your understanding of women (which is true),but first I'll have to watch that oyster scene a few more times ;)
Loads of guys in the man o spheres seem ok with viewing others like a mere lay as if they have no sisters nor mothers.
So.... RooshV is...virtue signalling™ ?  (ducks)
7:30 Yeah, I had that happen to me. She wanted marry just after one fuck. Not that I was super good, but I think she was desperate... so yeah...
I love you. can we hang out
I fucking love your videos.
That shirt, man. It is glorious!  Roosh is appearing more and more like the protagonist of a Bret Easton Ellis novel - shallowly and compulsively obsessing over appearances, both his own and that of success, without any sort of deeper 'connection' or meaning. I am pretty sure that if you ask him, he wouldn't be able to tell you a single interesting fact about any of the women he has 'banges', other than the superficial.
ooo oysters expensive video
DooblyDoo Dates back to March 2009 and was Coined by the Youtuber WheezyWaiter and eventually popularized by the VlogBrothers. Back then regular youtubeing existed within a singular community where most people watched everyone else and there was a lot of in-stuff and constant meta talk about the platform. the spirit behind coining the term I think came from the fact that youtube had multiple times changed the name of the description as well as it's location and there was a more general meme of "ah! youtube's layout is alwaysd changing!" so it was kind of meant as a "youtube will probably call it somnething else tomorrow so I'll just give it a jibberish name instead." thing.  Also, the Youtube aesthetic as well as the influence of Nerdfighteria Culture celebrated quirkiness and peculiarity, so it quickly became a popular neologism in the community and almost a sort of subtle cultural indentifier. at this point, it's one of the relics of the spirit of the old community vibe still present in today's videos so it does stick out as a "what did they just say?" thing for people who weren't around then.
I'll be truthful. The sight of you pulling on stockings gave me feelings... I must buy some oysters now.
Okay, as a bisexual woman, the oyster cunnilingus joke was strangely arousing.  Also I loved that you used a clip of Stoya when referencing female pleasure. 💯
love the black mirror reference
Are you going to do a video on the opposite end of the spectrum, MGTOW?
excellent
I lost it every time you said bang
That scene from "The Shining" always creeps me out and I was not expecting it in this video.
Gotta admit this one was pretty hilarious. I think PUAs are an easy target because even a lot of us on the right fucking hate them. Something that's important which I don't think you brought up is how this PUA/slutty lifestyle is really psychologically harmful. Every time you form attachment to someone and then either dump them or get dumped, part of your ability to form those strong bonds is lost forever. You become numb and cynical. At the extreme end of this behavior, people become practically emotionally crippled, unable to form stable, loving, long-term relationships and to function as good parents. I'm not saying it's wrong to be a slut, only that people should know the risks before they go running into it. I think a lot of lonely men fall into this PUA idea that all you want is casual sex with an many women as possible, when in reality what these men need is a wife who loves them. Just my thoughts as a WICKED EVIL NAZI RACIST
Where did you get the video of the girl orgasming while reading? I would like to know for... Reasons...
If you have to publicly state you're an alpha male, Roosh, you're probably not one. Nice video!
"Try the wine" got me xD lol......................................it had a roofie in it
i once binge watched a load of seminar vids by one o these fucks cos sometimes i hate myself and deserve to suffer.. apparently.. but yea.. they're a strange bunch.. scratch that.. i meant scary.. they're a scary, spiritually cancerous bunch of pure wrongness incarnate, like the pieces of steaming evil coal at the end of Time Bandits.   fact.   kick ass video.
I'm worried about what place the cut away gags will go to if you continue to escalate things.
You Go! You eat those Clams!
CP truly cares about his fans.  He acts out split-personality yaoi fanfiction of himself before we even have the chance to write it.  On a serious note, I've never read any of Roosh's stuff (his reputation precedes him), but I'm surprised to learn he doesn't actually seem to care about the pleasure gained from sex all that much; how playing the role of "alpha male" and accruing social status seem to take precedence. But now knowing it, so many things make sense.   He's not pursuing sex because he wants to feel as much pleasure as possible in his short life, but to fulfil a kind of life-path patriarchal society has told him will turn men into persons of worth and power.   It's kind of sad to be honest. I'd almost feel bad for the guy if he weren't such a raging douche whose ideology has severely horrid effects on both women and men.
So sex has become pokemon? Just a case of gotta catch em all? God, Contrapoints, pass me that goddamn bottle..... while I weep for humanity...  (Or just think... sheesh, what a pathetic dude whos not even worried about if hes any good at sex... Im imagining an enormous list of women thinking 'Oh and there was this one guy, crap in bed, finished in about ten seconds and then went and wrote something in a book... he was a complete douche.....)
Liked for your ability to shuck oysters!
Oysters are alright...
Wow, you pick some interesting topics!   Adding to what you said near the beginning, if the argument is "sex feels good, and you should aim to have a lot of it," then the best approach would be to get into some type of relationship with someone/s. The sex is usually better with someone who know's your needs, and, depending on the person, it's practically on-demand. So, for many people, relationships are a source of better and more frequent sex.
Moar bourgeois opera! =^-^=  #clamsRpleased
you're just the best
Roosh's tricks didn't work in my country, which makes me so proud, but the thing is that if he had dropped the pick up artistry, he would have done fine. He's not bad looking, except for the soulless eyes.
Roosh blocked me for leaving a comment saying"This is the weirdest episode of Catfish" on one of his YouTube videos.
You open by discussing Mozart instead of It's Always Sunny. This show's just so damn classy.
I, too, keep a list of how many people I've fucked. There's just one teeny, tiny problem... it's blank.
Roosh is possibly one the most pathetic person with the most shallow existence.
Watching your videos makes me so happy.
Such goodness.
I'm loving your videos so much
oh my god
There are some parts of pick up culture that I always admired, like teaching guys to be more confident, how to recover from rejection, and how to improve their appeal to women. And there's nothing wrong with wanting to get laid.  That said, I'm not sure the culture itself is redeemable. Pickup artists can be some of the sleaziest people (both writers and practitioners).
It's funny Don Giovanni was seen by my parents this week-end.  Heh you putting condom on bannna and toying with meat remind me a bit too much of a Cronnenberg movie, in fact pick-up artistery seem like it would be something out of Cronnnenberg or Kubrick
5:29 OMG MY FACE IS SO RED.
I wanna bang you ContraPoints. Please, tell me you want me too.
Keep making videos, I love your perspective.
